K 9470  
6090 pwrftery/  
534 pe  
yfi(2002.-3/31 A007)  
2002-2007  
### AGREEMENT  
Between  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
### CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF AMERICA  
### NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER, INC.  
And  
LOCALS 7, 186, 214, 322,  
433 and 589  
### LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF  
### NORTH AMERICA  
### AFFILIATED WITH THE AFL-CIO  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF AMERICA  
### NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER, INC.  
Theodore J. Czerw  
Assistant Managing Director  
1900 Westem Avenue  
Albany, New York 12203  
Telephone: (518) 456-1134  
FAX: (518) 456-1198  
### - INDEX  
### ARTICLE  
  
I. see  
I.  
I. Geographic Jurisdiction.................  
IV. —- Union  
V. Pre-Job  
VI. Union  
VII. Management  
VI. Work Conditions.........  
IX. Hours of Work......... 1  
X. Hl “  
XI.  Show-Up AT ete  
XU. Payday and Mode of  
XIU. Laborer Foreman......... ees Lo |  
### XIV  
XV. Safety........... wee  
XVI. Joint Policy on Substance Abuse ..................  
XVII. Pension, Welfare, S.U.B.. Annuity  
and Training Funds..............  
XVIII. Labor-Management Cooperation...............  
XIX. Jurisdictional Disputes.............  
XX. Watchmen and Guards...............  
### PAGE  
10  
1]  
### I  
13  
14  
15  
15  
17  
17  
### ARTICLE  
### XXI. .« Status Quo on Certain Equipment...............  
* “XXII. Aprbitration.....  
XXII. Deductions.  
XXIV. Equal Employment Opportunity.........  
XXV_ Most Favored Employer  
XXVI_ Apprenticeship.........  
Savings  
### XX VII.  
XXIX Duration and Termination  
Individual Employer  
  
eeneauue  
Gi)  
### PAGE  
18  
19  
21  
23  
ae  
### AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT, made this Ist day of April, 2002, by and between the LABOR  
### RELATIONS DIVISION, CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION, of the ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA, NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER,  
INC. (hereinafter referred to as the "Association"), acting for and on behalf of its present and future  
_members, and LOCALS 7, 186, 214, 322, 433 and 589 of the LABORERS INTERNATIONAL  
UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, affiliated with A.F.L.-C.1.O. (hereinafter referred to as the  
  
Pursuant to the Uniform District Council Constitution’of the Laborer’s International Union  
. of North America, Laborer Locals 7, 186, 214, 322, 433 and 589 are affiliated Locals of the Upstate  
New York Laborers’ District Council (“District Council”) and, as such, collective bargaining and  
ratification is conducted by the District Council on behalf of Laborer Locals 7, 186, 214, 322. 433  
and 589. Entering into this agreement will not bind the-parties to-the' terms of-any other agreement  
entered into by the District council on behalf of its other affiliated Locals. .  
### WITNESSETH: .: >".  
the parties hereto desire to stabilize employment-in' the Heavy and Highway  
Construction Industry, agree upon wage rates, hours, and conditions of employment.  
NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned Association and Union, in consideration of the  
mutual premises and covenants herein contained. agree as follows:  
### ARTICLE I - LIABILITY  
1. The Association and the Unions named herein are negouating agents for their present  
and future members. For any breach of this Agreement the liability of the members of the  
Association and the Local Unions shall be several] and not joint and the lability of the Association  
shall only be that of negotiating agent without liability for the acts of its respective members.  
2. The Association shall notify the Union in wnting within seven (7) days after the tume  
that a new member joins the Association and becomes a member of the L.R.D./A.G.C. - Central New  
York Region.  
### ARTICLE II - DEFINITION  
l. This Agreement is to cover al] Highway and Heavy Construction  
which, for the purposes of this Agreement, is defined as including, but not limited to,  
the construction of: highways, roads, streets, alleys, grade crossings, driveways,  
sidewalks, curbs, guard ratis, fences, culverts, parkways, parking areas, runways,  
laxiways, ramps and aprons and related work for excavation for conduit, bases and  
foundations for lighting and water lines and de-icing systems; athletic fields; highway  
and railroad and similar structures; railroad and street railway projects; railroad track  
work; sewers; Sewage treatment projects; putnping statons; sedimentation beds; water  
mains, grade separations, foundations incident to the work herein described;  
abutments, retaining walls, viaducts, track elevations, elevated highways, drainage and  
reclamation projects; reservoirs and water supply.projects; pure water projects; power  
plant construction outside the building line and inside the building line to the first floor  
level; water pollution contro] treatment plants; water power developments, hydro-  
electric developments, transmission lines, duct lines, pipelines, docks, dams, dikes,  
levees, revetments, irrigation and flood control projects, channels, channel cutoffs,  
dredging projects, jetties, break waters, locks, piers, pile driving, industrial sites,  
school sites, tank-farms, bulk plants, storage tanks and reservoir replacement tanks,  
windmill facilities, bobsled, luge runs, ski jumps, ski. slopes, outside skating nnks,  
outside synthetic tracks, outside synthetic. playing fields,.and all earth moving,  
including the installation, operation; maintenance and disassembly of construction  
equipment and plants used in connection with.and servicing the aforementioned work.  
2. Certain types of work heremabove described are more specifically  
covered as follows:  
(a) On pipeline construction both liquid and vapor from the first metering  
station or connection of the main transmission carrier to the  
distribution and transmission and distribution systems,  
underground and above ground communication systems. foundations  
and excavation on power transmission Jines, oi] static lines. Tank  
farms, buJk plants, and pumping stations are excluded.  
(b) Construction of sewer (sanitary and storm) and water lines and mains;  
(c) Sewer and water plant constniction for which  
the purpose is water purification or sewage treatment:  
(d) Borings, culverts and tunnels (for highway and railroad crossings)  
incidental or in conjunction with the work mentioned above at (a), (b)  
and (c);  
(e) The work mentioned in (b), (c). and (d) of this section on industrial,  
commercial, and school sites. a  
(f) Work covered in Section 2 shall be performed pursuant to this  
Agreement in sofar as it doesnot conflict with the national  
pipelineagreement.  
(g) | Worker and foremen conditions for this work are specifically described  
in Article XII, Section 5  
Ta OT OWS EI ant  
### "ARTICLE GEOGRAPHIC JURISDICTION  
lL. . This Agreement is to cover or all Heavy and Highway Construction: work  
in the geographical Jurisdiction er 214; 322, aoe. and 589 as provided  
  
for in Section 2. SWE PSS : *  
ot PR ka TRIE “14 as  
Das The. geographic jurisdiction ‘as stated will not be changed fort the  
purposes oF this Agreement during the duration of such  
Lon  
tort OME th  
.  
eam. LOCAL. NO. 7.- Counties. of : BROOME. TIOGA ownships: of  
7 _ Richford,Berkshire,;; Newark. Valley, Owego,. Tioga; Barton,: and  
.Nichols), CHENANGO (Townships of .Linklaen; Otselic; Smyma,  
‘Pitcher, Pharsalis;.Plymouth,;North Norwich, German;,. McDonough,  
Preston;:Norwich, Smithville; Oxford, Guilford,:Greene, Coventry,  
Bainbridge, and Afton), and DELAWARE (Townships of Sidney,  
Masonville, Walton, Tompkins, Deposit, Hancock, ‘and Colchester).  
Business Manager  
John Hutchings: 98 Main  
ey “rot i> Binghamton, NY 13905  
. (607) 723-7543 bs.  
### J 7 AGOTS  
AG mo bl bal Ck. a  
otitis OFM 7 we an wa hey ein  
LOCAL NO. 186 - Counties of WARREN. ESSEX. & CLINTON  
Business Manager "25 Elm Street  
om... Raymond: W, P.O. Box 928° | 7  
aa a . Plattsburgh, NY: -12901  
(518) 561-3240  
oy. ae "FAX: -  
- ear. se « TOS, ‘« =  
© OP we ote ML oun ak ;  
LOCAL NO. 214 - County 0 of  
Business Manager oP?  
William Shannon 23 Mitchel! Street  
soe me Oswego, NY 13126  
7 : (315) 343-7661/7713 -  
FAX: (315).343-0501 .  
4 ’  
LOCAL NO. 322 - Counties of LEWIS, JEFFERSON, ST.  
### LAWRENCE, and FRANKLIN. ©  
Business Manager oo 4 Maple Street  
Richard Daddario .:. Box 361’  
. Massena; N'Y- 13662  
? (315) 769-8731 °  
FAX: (315) 769-8522  
-  
  
LOCAL NO. 433 - County of ONONDAGA.  
Business —  
. Gabriel Rosetti . - 234 West Genesee Street '  
Syracuse, NY 13202  
(315) 471-1591/4812  
FAX: (315)  
### LOCAL NO. 589 - Counties of CORTLAND. TOMPKINS, TIOGA  
“+ + (Townships of Spencer and Candor). and (T ownship of  
  
Business Manager TE as  
John Maxson 622 West State Street  
hort Ithaca, NY 14850-  
272-3122  
FAX: (607) 277-6703-  
### ARTICLE IV - UNION JURISDICTION  
A, This Agreement i is to cover ‘all watchmen,’ flagmen (all crafts), fire  
watchmen, traffic contro] men, laborers,-foremen (grade, pipe, concrete, forms,  
seeding, asphalt, clearing and grubbing, clean-up, stonelaying) in the performance of:  
the laying of all types of pipe and conduit, including the relining and inspection,  
whether mechanical or physical of existing pipe and the fusion of plastic pipe: the  
installaion of open trench shonng and shield: the loading and unloading and  
distribution of all matenals by any means; the handling, loading, unloading,  
distnbution, installation, dismantling, removal, stockpiling, resetting of all guard rails  
and guide rails, highway signs and road markers; drilling, installation and grouting of  
anchor systems; handling and installation ‘of noise barriers and traffic barriers, whether  
permanent or temporary; the spreading and pouring and raking and tamping of all  
asphalt and concrete materials and the bull floating (strike off) of all concrete; curing  
of concrete; the laying of all types of stone or manufactured curb, rip-rap, paving  
blocks, concrete blocks (paving), Belgium Block; assembling and placing of Gabion  
and all similar types of baskets; the handling, loading and stringing of all wood  
products by hand or power; unloading and installarton of lagging (wood, concrete, and  
steel), the sharpening of all air tool bits.and drills and bull points; any and all types of  
heaters to be attended and handled and fueled by Laborers at al] times when in use  
except where existing agreements: provide otherwise; the handling, the laying and  
placing of forms used for curbing, gutters, roads and sidewaiks and the stripping of  
same; the placing, setting and maintenance of all flares, blinker lights and reflectors;  
the cutting and chipping of:road joints; the handling, the loading and unloading and  
distributing of chain-link:fence; handling and erecting of wire fence; the sandblasting  
and applying of sealers and hardeners and epoxy on concrete and asphalt work; the  
nozzle operators on sandblasting and guniting operations; the signaling of al! materials  
(manufactured or otherwise) handled_or ‘put in place by laborers; single  
diaphragm and 1-1/2" pumps to be attended, handled and fueled by laborers: the  
operating of al] types of machines used to seal any type of joints: the operating and  
servicing of mortar mixers and conveyors used in laborers' work regarcless of number;  
the operating and servicing of rock.driljing machines; the blasting and dynamiting of  
all rock; the placing of prestressed materials except when placed or  
installed by the manufacturer. pursuant.to its collective bargaining agreement: handling,  
unloading, loading, assembling and laying of all multiplate; the operation of al] air,  
gas, electric, o1} and other. type.of motor-driven: tools including .all pusher type  
equipment; the handling, tending and maintaining of Homelite and like generators,  
wrecking and demolition; containment membrane liner: reinforced.earth walls. The  
foregoing applies in the performance of all the aforementioned work and all other work  
coming under the Jurisdiction of the of N.A. --A.F 7 CLO: :  
: Ped  
2. Self-contained: crawler drill: grooving (status quo), for parts  
of Locals 35, 186 and 322,:1.e<,:the geographic jurisdiction of those Locals included  
within the jurisdiction of IUOE Local 106.  
### V- oak Jus CONFERENCE  
1. There s shall be a 1 mandatory pre-job conference ‘The Employer agrees  
to meet with the Union for. a pre-job conference: pnor-to the commencement of any  
work on the subject and the same shall. ‘apply to any: and all  
2. in the event thata an 1 Employer: violates this Anicle. the Union may serve  
a five (5) day. notice intention to strike-on such the Employer:does not  
compl y within five (5) days, the, Union may such Employer. without auch action.  
being a violation of. the no-strike clause of this contract. Ps  
reef MAE OR at deed  
3. | Where i a. subcontractor has-t not t had ; a pre-job conference, the fi ve (5)  
day notice shall also be, served. on the. contractor: er  
### ARTICLE VI - UNJON RIGHTS  
. 1. All employees covered by this agreement, as a condition of continued  
employment, shall, commencing on the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of  
their employment,.or the effective date of this agreement, .whichever is the later,  
acquire and, for the duration of their employment,.maintain membership in the union  
to the extent enforceable under law.  
2. Failure any employee covered by this “Agreement to meet the  
requirements described in paragraph | above, will, upon the Union's written request,  
result in his discharge by the Employer.  
3. . The Employer agrees that’ in n providing opportunity for employment it  
will give priority to persons who have had one (1) year or more of service since  
January 1, 1981 in the construction industry in the type of work covered by this  
Agreement, and in the various geographic areas described in Antcle I], Section 2 of  
this Agreement. It is understood that this clause is not applicable to Union employees  
who have previously been in the employment ¢ of:an LRD contractor.  
4. The Employer and the Union apree that the foregoing priority shall be  
exercised without regard to union membership or nonmembership and the Employer  
agrees to give the Union. an epparturaty to provide such additional employees as he  
needs. . Dot  
5. li.is agreed that on each job the Union Business Manager shal! appoint  
a working Shop Steward who will be named at the pre-job conference. The Laborers’  
Steward will be employed at all umes that any laborers: work is performed or any  
Laborers are employed on the project except that on overtime and/or specialty work,  
the Steward can only assert seniority, provided he is qualified to do the work. He will  
be paid for all ume lost due to not having been notified by the Employer or the  
Employer's agent to report for work. He will be allowed sufficient time to perform his  
duties and will not be discharged, laid-off, or-transferred by reason of the performance  
of his duties as Steward without prior approval of the Business Manager.  
6. . The Laborers’ Steward shal! be notified prior to ‘any hiring or layoff.  
- 7. + fa) At the Business Manager's request, the Steward will  
be assigned to a service truck when and if @ service truck is  
operating on the project. When the service truck is not  
‘operating on the project or in use on the project, the Steward  
will be assigned to other work. It is the intent of this section  
that the Steward be engaged as a productive working employee  
at al] times consistent with Section 5 of this Article.  
(b) . When the service truck is sent off the project, the Laborers’  
8.  
Steward will not accompany such truck, unless ordered to do so  
by the Employer. .  
(c) - . When there is-more than one (1) service truck operating on a  
project, ‘whether a laborer or laborers shall be assigned'to such  
truck. or trucks, shall be at the option and ‘discretion of the  
‘Employer consistent with the jurisdiction of ihe Union. -  
Authorized representatives of the Union shall be allowed to visit it jobs  
during working hours to interview. the: Employer and the Employees, but in no way  
“shal ‘such person or persons interfere with or:hinder the progress at ial Work.”  
9.  
ent  
(a) Employees injured at work shall be paid for t the lume > spent  
_ + .going:to the.doctor’s office for treatment at the time of injury.  
If the doctor certifies in writing.that the Employee.is, unable.to:  
to work:that day; the injured: Emplayee shall be Paid’ for  
- ; the of that: working cay. han  
on  
The injured employee shal] be allowed t two 0 (2) hours ti ume:from  
work for additional visits to the doctor for injuries sustained  
while in the Employer's service without loss of pay. It shall be  
understood, however,-that.such visits during :workirg ‘hours  
Shall be made only: when:no other arrangements can-be made  
and an affidavit is received from the doctor stating the necessity.  
for each visit.  
"  
- workman shall, ‘if..at all :possible, be: given  
preference to-any light-work, if:the:same‘is available, that may .  
_ be. performed. on the:job;:provided. however; that he is still. in  
of the: Employer where the injury occurred and:the  
> doctor certifies in: wnting that the ne employer can n do the. work to.  
whieh ned 1S to be assigned. wl ue DE a  
, feo 7.  
### "ARTICLE vu - - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS-  
The direction of employees, including the making and enforcing of  
rules to assure orderly and efficient operations, the determination of  
employee_competency, and the scheduling of-work are nghts vested  
in the  
The operation: of the: business: including 0 the introduction of new or  
improved methods the determination of the amount of  
supervision_necessary and the size composition of the work force and  
crews are nghts.vested.exclusively-in the Employer.  
The Employer retains the right ‘at any ume to vequest a specific job  
to use.  
op  
3.  
applicant whether or not he/she has previously worked for the  
Employer and regardless of his/her position on any hiring list or out of  
work list. If the Employer clects to use the facilities of the Union to  
recruit job applicants he shal] advise the Union on the prior day, the  
‘number of employees needed,-the specific job applicants requested,  
and/or the qualifications and skills of job applicants whether or not  
specifically requested.  
The nights set forth herein are not exclusive, but merely indicate the  
type of matters or nghts. which belong to and are inherent to  
management.  
~~” ~~ a  
### ARTICLE VIII - WORK CONDITIONS  
_ The Employer shall! furnish all.necessary tools that the Employees are  
  
  
*  
  
(a) At the time of hire or such.later date as may be appropriate,  
. employees covered: by ‘this Agreement shall be furnished  
. Shipover rubber boots, rainsuits, and hats which shall remain the  
property of the Employer and be retumed at the termination of  
use:or: employment:  
. er  
(b) . At the first. full pay period following the issuing of such articles,  
the actual cost to the contractor of said articles shal! be  
deducted from the pay of each such employee covered by this  
contract.. Upon termination of employment, such employees  
who retum the articles issued will be refunded the amount  
deducted from pay.  
The Employer shall supply special gloves for the performance of work  
necessitating their use.  
4.  
The Employer shal] provide warm suitable shelter of sufficient size  
where all laborers may eat their lunch and hang their clothing. The Employer shall  
also assume responsibility in case of loss of fire. No tools, building equipment, or  
combustible material shall be stored therein. Employees shall ne * Fequired to execute  
a verified proof of loss in case of fire.  
5.  
The Employer shall provide and the Laborers shail maintain clean and  
sanitary toilet and drinking facilities.  
6.  
~  
(a) The Union and the Employer expressly agree that a stable work  
force is required at all times in this seasonal industry and that  
the absence of individual employees has a serious impact on the  
J. Employers project Producuvity and efficiency.  
| (b) Absences. from: scheduled work are to be discouraged and  
absences ‘are just cause for discharge of an  
employee or-employees and it shall be the decision of the  
Union whether.to take recourse to the grievance procedure.  
### IX - HOURS OF WORK  
“—  
1. The work shalt consist stof Monday through Friday.  
2. Normal workday shall consist of eight (8) hours with one-half (4) hour  
for lunch. The starting time shall be Set the allied exter that starting ume  
shal] not be changed from'day:to day: - nS ee  
3. Two shifts worked:in:twenty-four (24).hours:and shall be of  
equal duration and at the same rate. However, in a two-shift operation, where the  
combined number of hours worked by the two shifts is sixteen (16) or less, each shift  
shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at:straight: time. : Notwithstanding the foregoing  
provisions, when a shift is shut down’ by'reason of completion of the shift work to be  
performed or conditions beyond the'Employer's control; the affected shift shall be paid  
on the basis of the show-up time provisions contained herein in“Article XI. This clause  
is equally applicable to the three (3) shift provisions hereinafter contained in Section 4  
below. Thus, it is understood that there 1s no guarantee that on a given day. one shift  
might not: wary: due: to: weather, . “equipment ‘breakdown. Or. In Operation  
schedules. PU wa Gn SF CE uae  
. a hae oe ge 2 "GAT “awe Fault Miia  
4. » Three shifts: may be worked bi wenty fur (24) hours and shall be at  
the Tate and durations set forth below. : cep Tne tb gs  
Ist Shift  
8 hours’ work: : rs TE \8 hours’ pay =  
2nd Shift  
. neurs work: se "Pay  
Re tee STE OT Pat oth,  
Brd Shift en eet ee  
7 hours’ work 8 hours’ pay  
: Every shift shali -have one-half hour-for lunch. ‘When three (3) shifts are  
worked, the second and third shift shall be considered for payrol] purposes as -having’  
worked in their entirety on the same day on which the first shift started. On multiple  
shift.work, the work week shali start:not than 5: ap a.m. The Contractor shall  
set the Starting ume.  
2; Prior to the start of shift work, the Employer shall give forty-eight (48)  
hours notice to the Business Manager. When the shift work to be performed shall be  
less than ten (10) working days in duration; prior agreement of the Business Manager  
shall be required. In the event of an emergency-or directive of the letting agency, pnor  
agreement for shift work of less than ten (10) working days’ duration is not required,  
but notice will be given to the Business Manager prior to the starting of such shift  
work.  
6... One and one-half (1-1/2) times the. rates set forth in this Agreement  
shall be paid for work performed outside the scheduled. workday and al! work  
performed on Saturday. All work on Sunday will be paid at double time.  
7. On private (non-posted rate) work, four (4), ten (10) hour days may be  
worked at straight time aoning a week, Monday thru  
8. All eligible employees shall be allowed time off to vote on Election  
Day in accordance with. applicable | law...  
9. - - FLEXTIME. With the respect io any project that is 100% Federaliy  
funded, awarded by a Federal Agency,.the payment of overtime after eight (8) hours  
will not apply. Overtime will only be required to be paid after (40) hours.  
10: A single irregular work shift can-start any time. between 5:00 pm and 1:00  
1:00 am. All employees who work a single irregular shift on governmental mandated  
night work shall be paid an additional $1.75 per hour. This provision shall be effective  
for work bid on or after July 1.°2002.-It-is understood and agreed‘ that if the single  
irregular shift language is not included in the NS prevailing wage rate  
schedules, the premium is waived... +: a ae  
### Ll. “ARTICLE x. HOLIDAYS iC  
il. Paid holidays-to be observed are ‘Memorial Day. Independence Day,  
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day. irrespective of  
the day of the week on which the holiday may fall. If the holiday falls on Saturday. it  
will be celebrated on Saturday. Employees who work a Saturday holiday shall be paid  
double time plus the holiday pay. When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the Employer  
has the option to either work Friday and pay Saturday as.the holiday or, not work  
Friday and pay for the day in lieu of the Holiday. if the holiday falls on Sunday, 1t will  
be celebrated on Monday. In the event that men work on this Sunday. holiday, they  
shal] be paid double time. In the event work on’ Monday, they shall be  
compensated at double time plus the holiday pay. Accordingly: the Monday following  
the Sunday ts treated as-the holiday.  
2 Any employee laid off within the week in which a holiday falls shall  
receive holiday pay, provided the holiday occurs after the date of hire. However, if a  
new employee is employed by an Employer for one (1) day only during this penod, he  
10  
  
shall not. Be entitled to holiday pay: * es  
-3. Aman must work the working day b before and the working day after a  
holiday to receive holiday pay.” However, an employee not able to report because.of  
proven sickness, death in:immediate family, or accident shall be entitled to holiday  
pay. ve se ak tn Sage ME gs nf  
| 4, If a man is-ordered out:and reports for work on a holiday, set forth j in  
” Section 1 above, and does not:start, then he shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours  
_ Straight time in.addition:to.the straight time.given.for said paid holiday. If-he starts  
work on a paid holiday, he shall be paid a a minimum or our (4h hours S pay at double  
-ume plus the holiday pay: .: Ru OAT Sete tee  
### ARTICLE xI- SHOW-UP TIME  
of 84g me  
2 ots Tbe  
1. “Any laborer who reportetiax work at the regularly appoimed starting  
time, unless he has been notified on the previous day that his services will not be  
required, shall be entitled to: show-up :time’of one'(1) hour at time. The  
Employees shall remain on ‘the job-for’the ‘one (1) hour otherwise  
directed by the Employer. Employees directed to stand-by beyond the one (1): hour  
period shal] be paid show-up time plus such additional stand-by time.  
2. - . Employees reporting starting ‘time ‘shall: if work,  
receive a’‘minimum pay:of one: (1) hours: worked whichever iS greater.  
7 NL PORE! “2h a oo” bathed i . i tea"? Mae  
### ARTICLE XH PAYDAY AND MODE OF PAYMENT: :  
a i > pm ld: ae “SSDS fo oa *  
1. Employees performin g work under this’ Agreement. shall-be paid once  
a week on the job. No more than six (6) days’ pay shall be withheld. If the payday  
falls on a holiday, payment shall. be. made on the.workday- preceding such holiday. On  
failure to pay on the regularly scheduled payday, the Employer will pay a penalty of  
two (2) straight time hours for payday and.for.each succeeding day on which he fails  
lo. pay where such to Pay is. ‘To ‘conditions within the Employer's’  
control. a oe COU tots ok wa  
2. All wages shall be payable.in. lawful currency; enclosed in an‘énvelope  
which shows the employee's name and Employer's:name, regular hours’ worked plus  
overtme-hours worked, all lawful déductions, and the amount due or by a‘negotiable  
payroll check showing al] of-the above information drawn upon a bank  
within the region, payable “pon demand at: Pars sy Sas  
3. If any emploves' is ¢ or + laid off. all accrued wages shall be due  
and paid immediately, except that an employee may be paid by check mailed within  
twenty-four (24) hours. If not mailed-within 24 hours,:such employee shall be paid an  
additional $25.00 for each additional 24 hour period the check was not.mailed..  
3  
### ARTICLE XII - LABORER FOREMAN  
1. When more than three (3) employees covered by this Agreement are  
employed, ‘a Laborer Foreman will be designated by the Employer. Designated  
Foremen shall assume the keeping of time for Employees covered by this Agreement.  
2. Laborer Foreman (erade, pipe, etc.) shall be designated by and at the  
discretion of the Employer and shall be assigned to such duties and responsibilities as  
the Employer, the’Dirt Superintendent, or other supervisory personnel may determine  
in its or his sole discretion. The Employer or his representative shail be the sole judge  
of whether such employees are qualified to perform the assigned work.  
3. The wage rates for foremen covered by this Agreement are as follows:  
(a) Grade Foremen - two dollars ($2. 00) over basic rate.  
(b) Other Foremen — one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) over the  
"+ highest classification covered by this Agreement which such  
foremen supervise.  
* (c) foremen covered by this Agreement may be employed on  
weekly basis at a salary agreeable to the Employer and the  
_  
4. The Union agrees that no restrictions shall be placed upon the selection  
of Foremen by the Contractor or the use of Foremen freely among Locals throughout  
the territorial jurisdiction of ‘this Agreement (100% mobility), ‘provided they are a  
member of a Union party to this Agreement:  
5. (a)  Foremen’shall be named as may be required by the Employer  
and at the Employer's discretion. In the event that more than  
one foreman’ 1S on a project, the Union shall be  
afforded an opportunity to supply 50% of such men.  
(b) On gas distribution, electric and telephone work there shall be  
fifty percent (50%) mobility between the local unions with  
respect to foremen and workmen. The first foreman may come  
from the Employer.  
(c) On other work covered by Article I, Section 2, there shall be  
fifty percent (50%) mobility with respect to foremen and  
. twenty-five percent (25%) mobility among the unions with  
_ respect to other workmen.  
12  
### ARTICLE XIV - SUBCONTRACTING  
1. It is agreed that if the Employer subcontracts job site work falling . |  
within the terms of this contract, provision wil] be made in each subcontract for the _  
compliance by said subcontractor with terms, conditions of employment, wages, and  
fringe benefit contributions not less than. those contained in this Agreement.  
2. A subcontractor is defined, as “any person, firm, partnership, self-_  
employed person or corporation, wha agrees, under. contract, oral or written, with the  
general contractor or his subcontractor je perform. on the job site any part or portion  
of the work covered by this Agreement.  
3. With respect to subcontractors who are not members of the Labor  
Relations Division-Central New York.Region, A.G.C., or who have not signed the  
contract as an individual Employer, ‘the following rules shall apply:  
(a) Such subcontractors shall be required to remit fringe benefit  
‘payments on a weekly basis.  
(b) — On the first failure of such subcontractor.to remit fringe benefits  
or first instance on. which the subcontractor i is delinquent, the  
Union shall notify the Prime Contractor. of:said failure to remit  
or delinquency.  
“After | having been. notified of, a. failure 10, remit Or. of a:  
delinquency, the. Prime Contractor, shall ‘be responsible, for. each  
such fringe benefit payment pursuant to Section 3d) below.  
(d) After notification by the Union, the Employer is responsible for  
checking with the Funds to determine whether the regular  
payments are being made. However, once any non-payment  
has been rectified and the subcontractor resumes payments as  
required under 3(a), the Pnme Contractor is relieved of any  
responsibility to check with the Funds until notification is again  
received in writing by the Union of further alleged delinquency.  
(e) © The Prime Contractor's responsibility is limited to fringe  
benefits applicable to its project on which the defaulting  
_ Subcontractor is employed.  
(f) | The Prime Contractor does not assume the above responsibility  
with respect to subcontractors who are members of the L_R.D.-  
Central New York Region, AGC, or who are individual signa-  
tories to the labor contract.  
13  
_ 4: Off-site gravel or material pits, the material from which is used for a  
particular project covered by this Agreement, shal! be operated under the terms of this  
Agreement when the pit is owned, leased, operated by or under the control of the  
Pritne Contractor or another corporation.or company of which the majority ownership  
is held by the Prime Contractor or lis majority‘owner or owners.  
5. It is recognized that there are specific subcontract requirements for  
D/M/WBE participation in most public works contracts and that certain exceptions to  
the subcontracting clause may be required for thé Employer to comply with these  
requirements. Every effort will be made by the Employer to arrange a pre-job meeting  
with these subcontractors and the Union. It is understood that.in no way shall the  
enforcement of this clause allow other trades to perform the work of this Union.  
6. By mutual agreement, an Empioyer inay subcontract to non-signatory  
specialty subcontractors and use his nes to arrange a pre-job conference.  
+. . 7 q  
### ARTICLE-XV: SAFETY  
l. No employee shall be required or assigned to engage in any activity  
involving dangerous conditions of work or danger to. person or property in violation  
of an applicable statute, court order, or governmental regulation relating to safety of  
person or equipment.  
2, In the event that the Employer viclates Section | above. a withdrawal  
by the Union of the services of the man or men engaged in the particular operation  
shall not be in.a violation of this c contract byt the Union.  
3. - The Employer and the Union do hereby agree to work together to  
promote safety on the job for the benefit of all employees. Safety rules and regulations  
will be made known to all employees and the use of safety equipment wil] be  
continually promoted by both parties:  
4, (a) ~The Union and the: Employer. agree that willful neglect and  
failure by an employee to obey company safety rules and  
regulations; or to obey safety rules, standards and regulations  
as prescribed pursuant to the Occupational Safety and Health  
Act or other governmental] regulation or legislation: or to use  
properly such safety devices or equipment as are provided by  
the Company shall be just cause for discharge.  
(b) The Union agrees: to cooperate with the company in  
encouraging employees to observe’ the safety regulations  
prescribed by the company and to wear properly and utilize  
safety equipment as required by the company and to work in a  
safe manner.  
14  
> The Union further.agrees that Union representatives visiting job  
 $ites shall obey al] company safety rules and regulations and  
. Shall safety rules, standards, and regulations prescribed  
pursuant to the Occupational Safety and Health:Act or other  
governmental regulation or legisjation, and shall wear and use  
properly al] safety devices or employees on the job  
Site are, required to to wear-and. use. -  
- F alg  
### ARTICLE XVI- ]OINT POLICY ON SUBSTANCE ABUSE .  
.  
1. The Employer. and Union : are: to provide: a.. safe: work  
environment for its employees and the public.and also maintain a reliable, productive;  
quality work force, and thus affirm that construction es sites s subject to this  
Agreement 1 enist De an de eee Cs  
Fay tt 1? . ik ij  
th ey TY TL  
2. Employees whose job performance iS impaired by the use of alcohol or  
drugs create an unacceptable safety risk to. themselves, co-workers, and public.  
3: Employees the.joint policy on substance -abuse shall be  
subject to discipline up to. and: including immediate discharge FECOUTSE.t0 the:  
grievance procedure, .- moe ke ee te a  
Le  
### ARTICLE XVII - PENSION, WELFARE, S.U.B.,  
: onan a  
Mt a ae ae  
l. (a) The ‘Employer hereby. cagrees.: tO: contribute the « amounts”  
hereinafter provided for in Article XX VIII of this Agreement  
ys 44. . to,designated Laborers Pension. Welfare, S.U.B.. Annuity. and  
saz. Taming: Funds (hereinafter singularly and collectively referred  
sues. tovas "Fund") .for.each. worked -by employees .  
covered by this Agreement: « It-is the purpose Article to:  
provide that where a Local Union party to this Agreement has  
established a Fund, jointly trusteed. by Labor and Management,  
then said contributions shal]: be paid to said Local Fund in the  
_ amounts hereinafter-set-forth in this: Agreement. An annual  
- . financial report will.be.submitted to the AGC from each local  
.: UMON iia fund to which AGE employers contribute.  
(b). ‘The Employers p: party. to this Agreement accept the Trustees now  
serving on such Fund and hereby waive the nght to name new,  
other or additional trustees,: except that the parties  
_ agree,that,one (1)--Umon Trustee and one (1) LRD/AGC  
-: Trustee shall be: —_ to the (. ~pstate ) Laborers Regional  
.. Fund:..  
15  
. 2: The Employer agrees to contribute the amount per hour hereinafter set  
forth in Article XXVIII for each actual hour worked, except where an employee is paid  
pursuant to the 1+ actual hours worked clause herein provided for at Article XI of this  
Agreement, in which case shall be Paid on has same basis as the 1+  
actual hours worked clause. se  
3. Each Local Union party. to'this Agreement shall be considered as an  
Employer under this Agreement for the purpose of * paying the contributions mentioned  
in this Article on its Employees.  
4. . (a) In the event that.the Employer does not make contnbutions to  
the Fund as provided for herein, the Employer agrees that he  
be charged with all necessary litigation and accounting  
| | expenses incurred by the Trustees of the Fund in collecting the  
po, monies due hereunder and that a money judgment may be  
rendered against. such’. Employer for such litigation and  
accounting expens¢és in. 1 to a judgment for unpaid  
contributions. rs oe a  
(b) Litigation and accounting expenses shall be determined so as  
7 notto:be m excess of the minimum fee schedules for the legal  
and accounting professions 4 An tii area In such work ts  
ue ey ae ae  
5. (a) Bach Employer ‘shall furnish the Trustees -of the respective  
Funds with periodic reports as required by the Fund showing  
the names, social numbers, hours worked. and location  
of: job of éach employee performing. work’ covered by this  
Agreement:  
(b) Subcontractors. covered by Anticle. XIV, Section 3 shall remit  
contributions on a weekly basis:  
(c) in the event that no workers are erhployed during the report  
period: a negativ ve > report and/or a final report shall be filed.  
(d) Monthly reports : are due the 15th day of the month following  
the month on which contributions are being made.  
6. The books and records of each to the employment  
of Employees covered by this Agreement shall be made available at all reasonable  
uumes for inspection and audit by a licensed-CPA employed by the Fund, including,  
without limitation, payroll sheets, W-2 Forms, New York State employment reports,  
Social Security reports, ledgers, vouchers, and-any other pertinent items conceming  
16  
payrolls. Inspection shall be restricted to a verification of payments made and/or due  
to the Fund. Cost of such inspection shall be by the Fund, except in cases where  
an Employer is delinquent in making in which case the delinquent  
Employer shall bear the cost of inspection and audit. is defined: ‘as  
continual late payments and not Honest errors.  
- 4 2 4  
### ARTICLE XVIII . LABOR-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION te  
. The Employer and the ‘Union. they must confront issues of  
mutual concern which:.are, more susceptible to effective resolution through: labor-  
management cooperation than through the collective bargaining process.. To.seek  
resolution of these mutual concerns, to address issues regarding health and safety, and  
to advance mutual interests through labor-management cooperative efforts, it is agreed  
that the Employer shal) contribute to. the..New York ‘State Laborers-Employers  
Cooperation and, Education Trust. and'to the ‘New York Laborers’ Health and Safety  
Fund for the term of this‘Agreement, including any extensions or renewals thereof.  
The Employer.-shall- contnbute to: the;::New: York State Laborers-Employers  
Cooperation and ‘Education Trust as. provided for in Article XXVIII for each actual  
### hour The Employer shall:also contribute to the New York Laborers’ Health  
and Safety Fund as provided for in Article XXVIII for each actual hour worked. The  
Employer shall submit all contnbutions and all contribution reports to the designated  
Local Fund Office:.; The Fund. Office:. shall: promptly forward the  
contributions and contribution reports to,the Laborers Regional Office. Trust Division.  
for the accounts of the Trust,and Fund... The Employer.and the Union hereby adopt and  
agree to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the New  
York State Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust, as amended, as well  
as the-Agreement and Declarauon of Frist shang the New. York Laborers’ Health  
and Safety Fund, as : geet ts  
Pater  
### ARTICLE XIX _ JURISDICTI: JONAL DISPUTES  
I. The parties hereto mutually agree that i in the event of a jurisdictional  
dispute with any other” Union. or. the. shall be submitted to the  
International Unions for settlernent:: - We 7]  
. 2. ‘Neither. party shall order or.permit any lockout, strike, or other work  
stoppage or slowdown. Further, the Union-will not.aid, support or permit unauthorized  
strikes, slowdowns or work stoppages by its members with to a jurisdictional  
dispute.:. ee ne a Oe  
3. Tf the Intemational Unions 2 are © unable 10 resolve said dispute within five  
(5) days (Saturday, Sunday. and Holidays excluded) then: . :  
4, The patties to: ‘this Agreement. ‘shall have. exhausted: their internal  
remedies and may then seek resolution through the NLRB and/or the Courts. No legal  
action may be initiated before such internal remedies  
17  
-  
5. Notwithstanding any othér provision of this Agreement, only a court  
Has the power to determine whether or not a'particular dispute arising under this  
Agreement is jurisdictional and excluded from the grievance/arbitration provisions.  
### ARTICLE XX- WATCHMEN AND GUARDS  
1. Guards are to be excluded from the bargaining unit. Guards may be  
used for the security of the contractors’ equipment and matenal only and they will not  
at anytime be required to punch clocks or pesca work a employees covered by  
this Agreement. ote  
Watchmen are employees on projects requiring A coverage under Item  
619 (Maintenance and Protection of Traffic) and such employees are covered by only  
the following provisions of this Agreement: Article VI, Sections 1, 2, 3. 9(a), (b), and  
### (c); Article VIII Article XTV, Sections 2 and:3; Article XV: Article XVI Anicle ant  
### Article X VI Article XXTII Anticie XXTVand Anicie XXVZ ~  
3. When watchmen service is subcontracted, ihe Provisions of this Article  
shall apply equaly to |  
~ 4, The k+ actual hours worked clause of this contract (Article XI ) does  
not apply to watchmen. The hourly be-paid at:straight time for actual hours  
worked without regard to the day of the week or whether a holiday’is involved.- Time  
and one-half (1-1/2) shal].be paid for hours worked in excess of forty (40). Overtime’  
for watchmen shall be computed only on hours worked as a watchman without regard  
to hours that such man shall have worked on the project as a laborer.  
| urn. Sh,  
5. The duties: of a watchinan shall include maintenance’ of -barricadés, -  
lights and signs, and similar non-productive maintenance and safety functions, acting  
as fire watch, bui shall not pene fuel fires. °  
6.- Watchmen Rates: The warchtoan's rate shall be 75% of the basic (a)  
rate, plus fringes. Such basic rates shall be rounded: to the: nearest one-half (2) cent.  
### “ARTICLE XXI- STATUS QUO ON CERTAIN: EQUIPMENT  
1. The parties hereto recognize that the operation of certain equipment and  
work assignments may raise questions regarding jurisdiction’of work in areas of one  
or more of the local unions party t to this The equipment involved is:  
(a) Hydraulic Seeder  
(b) Concrete Curb Machine  
Asphalt Curb Machine  
(d). - Snorkel - a  
18  
be  
### BL  
See  
2  
ry EG Oe  
-  (e) — Stump Remover  
(f) Blower for Burning Bush  
(g) Hydraulic Motorized Pin Puller  
(h) Self-Propelied Concrete Saw |  
(I) Application of Temporary and Permanent Road Markings  
(j) Scaffolding  
(k) Welding woe  
(1) Use of a Laser Level  
- (m) of  
2. 2, Pending final determination of. the jurisdiction of the above equipment,  
such equipment and the operation thereof shall remain "status quo."  
pete xan aa  
if ; i  
1. During thet term of this Agreement, neither ary shall order or permit  
any lockout, strike, or other work:stoppage.or slowdown. Further, the Union will not  
aid, support or permit unauthorized strikes, slowdowns,.or work stoppages by its  
members.  
st tots ¢ -” vee  
“ “A ie é . . * £ oe ‘  
2. Grievance Procedure: All grievances. or ‘disputes involving. any  
controversy, dispute, or misunderstanding arsing as to the meaning, application. or  
observance of -any provisions. of. this:Agreement shall be:handled in the manner  
hereinafter set forth, It is:agreed that.allimatters. pertaining to the this.  
Agreement must :be ;referred: directly. to the Joint: Committee;.:provided.:that:  
gnevance-has not been. filed, the matter shall-not be:a: subject: at unt ‘a  
grievance 18: filed. . leg lhe Doe ThA aha fy  
yo ab TUDE EE OMT TRE TOR. Cera date .  
Step 1. All grievances must be made known i In writing to the other purty within  
seven, (7},calendar: days .after the: reason has-occurred. The ag-  
gneved employee's or.employees’ shop. steward. .or-another authonzed representative:  
of the Union shall first submit a written grievancé to.the-Job Superintendent, ‘or-his:  
duly authonzed representative. The Shop Steward or another authonzed representative  
of the Union of the Employee;or the involved shall be present ‘at any  
meeting between the Job Superintendent and such employee or employees. The Job  
Superintendent or his duly authorized representative must make a wnitten disposition  
of the matter -within twenty-four. (24) ‘hours ‘after the submission of such. written  
grievance thereto.  
Op a com  
. . Step 2. If the disposition of. the, matter-by the Job Superintendent‘or his duly  
authorized representative is not Satisfactory, the matter taken up by the  
Business Agent, and representative of the Employer with authonty to act within  
forty-eight (48) hours of the wnitten Cispoaition s¢ set forth 3 in Step 1.  
Step 3. If the disposition of the matter in: Step 2 1s not sarisfactory. either party  
has a right to file its grievances with the Joint Committee referred to in Section 2 of  
19  
this Article within seventy-two (72) hours 2.  
The Unions and Association who are signatones to this shall together  
establish for the duration of this Agreement, a Joint Committee. The Joint Committee  
shall consist of three (3) representatives of the Employers and three (3) representatives  
of the Union. Al] meetings of the Joint Committee must be attended by each member  
or his alternate, but the absence. of any member‘or alternate shall not invalidate the  
action of the members of the Joint Committee who are present.  
It shall be the function of the Joint Committee to.setile disputes and grievances  
which cannot be settled in accordance with Steps 1 and 2 of the grievance procedure.  
The Joint Committee shail formulate rules of procedure to govern the conduct of its  
proceedings including the time, date, and place of meetings. .  
_ A decision by a majority of the Joint Committee shall be final and binding on  
the parties and employees invoived. . Failure of either party involved to comply with  
any fina! decision of or to submit to the jurisdiction of the Joint Committee shall give  
the other party the immediate nght to all legal and economic recourse.  
4, Rights of the Joint Committee: .The Joint Committee shall have the  
right to investigate all facts pertaining to the dispute. The Joint Committee upon  
each dispute or grievance processed in accordance with this Article after completion  
of or as a part of Step 2, have the right to examine time sheets and any other records  
pertaining to the computation of compensationof any: individual ‘or individuals whose  
pay is in‘dispuie. Both parties shall be entitled to present such évidence and witnesses  
in support of their position as they s see wo,  
5. . Arbitration: Af cannot be sausfactorily settled by a majority  
decision of the Joint Committee, the grievant shal! request a list of Seven (7) arbitrators  
from (1) the panel arbitrators of the New York Board of Meditation, (2) thé Federal  
Mediation and Conciliation Service, or (3) the labor panel of the American Arbitration  
Association for final and binding decision. request shall be no later than fifteen  
(15) calendar days from the date of the oral announcement of the Joint Committee's  
decision, by the grievant or his duly assigned representative. Further, any arbitration  
agency named shall be used only for every third arbitration that may arise between the  
parties to the end that arbitrators be selected on a'rotating basis in the order in which  
the agencies are hereinabove listed. The arbitrator shall be selected by alternately  
eliminating names from the seven (7) person list until-one reinains; the grievant or his  
representative shall strike the first name. Upon failure to comply with the provisions  
of this entire section on the part. of the grievant, the grievance shall be deemed to have  
been closed without decision.  
The arbitrator shal] not have jurisdiction or authonty to add to, modify, detract  
from, or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement or any amendment or  
supplement thereto. If the arbitrator should determine that the grievance is not covered  
by this Agreement, he shail return the grievance to the parties without decision and the  
20  
3 Ys 2H  
grievance shall be closed. In such case; the costs, if any, shall be borne by the grievant.  
. 6... Violations concerning wages, hours, and.all fringe benefit payments  
shall not be subject to the grievance procedure:>In-such cases; the Union. shall give  
three (3) working days-notice to.the-Employer that the Union will withdraw its men  
from the Employer's service. If the Employer contends there is a question of fact  
regarding the alleged violation, he may file-a grievance within the aforesaid three (3)  
working days with a copy.to:the, Local Union and a the Co-Secretaries of the  
Committee. When a grievance has been filed, there shall be no work stoppage pending  
resolution of the gnevance. pursuant to:Article XXII(2)(3) and subsequent provisions  
of this Article. Work jurisdiction, that:1s,:disputes with respect to.whether one group  
of employees or. another group.of employees. shall certain pwr on the Ne project  
is expressly not arbitrable: under this .contract...; .. | an  
7... _.Any discharged employée may file a grievance no later than four (4)  
days after discharge by a to the Project Manager or.Super-  
intendent and the Loca] Union.and such:gnevance shal] be Processed in  
accordance with the steps of the gnievance procedure. oe “hy,  
8. The administrative-costs of:the: Joint shall be bore equally  
ila the Employers and the Union. a em vb at arte re 2 4 PRS as TH. tl US  
a 9. _ The costs of arbitration, which,s! shall inelede the and expenses of  
the arbitrator shall be borne by, Bie Company.in-case its principal contention-is.rejected :  
by. the. arbitrator, and by the Union: in-case its: pnncipal contention is °  
arbitrator, except, however, that each party shall pay the: own representatives  
and witnesses. Any dispute as to whose principal contention is rejected shall be  
determined by the arbitrator. In: the parties!: principal. contention is  
upheld in. part, the arbitrator, shall designate:what pan of the costs are:to Ons Py  
which according to. the relative ments of each party’ S. at  
. Eee yy ate a ee ne  
, ‘10. "The Union» and. “Association: expressly agree: that: the i  
present and future, who bargaining. group,"do.-not  
subscribe to, are not a part of; nor.are-they.to.any.extent bound by the Impartial Board.  
for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes or-the or of  
the Board for the Settlement of ane  
i  
### “ARTICLE, XXII- DEDUCT. IONS: BP HOU.  
=  
4.  
+  
tat ase Porters py fast, -  
say de ~The Employer shall deduct from the basic wage. rate” of employees  
covered by this Agreement, the amounts hereinafter set forth in-Article. XXVIII for  
each actual hour worked by such —  
yr as -No deductions shall ‘be made. for any - such employee unless the  
employee has deposited-with the Employer his copy of. an executed ‘authorization form,  
which shal! in no event. be irrevocable, period of ‘more than one-(1) year or the  
2]  
termination date of this Agreement whichever shall be the less.  
3: Executed copies of the authorization cards will be kept on file by the  
| Union and the Employer.  
4. The Employer assumes no obligation with respect 10 the obtaining of  
authorization cards, it being understood that this is a duty and obligation of the Union.  
5. With respect to any such Employee, for whom authorization cards have  
not been furnished, the gross basic wage rate appearing hereafter at Article XX VII  
shall be paid to the Employee on a straight and/or time and one-half basis as shall be  
_ applicable under this contract. |  
, ; os  
3 .  
6. ‘Deductions shall be made i in the first full payroll period following the  
furnishing of authorization cards. .  
7. The Union shall indemnify and save the Emplover harmless against any  
and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by  
reason of action taken or not taken by the Company i in reliance upon authorization  
cards furnished by the Employees and/or Union.  
8. The Employer agrees to deduct’ and transmit to the New York State  
Laborers’ Political Action Committee five cents ($.05) for each hour worked from the  
wages of those employees who have voluntarily ; authorized such contri butions on the  
forms provided for that purpose by the Union. These ‘transmittals shall occur monthly,  
and shall be accompanied by a list of the names of those employees for whom such  
deductions have been made, and the amount deducted for each such employee. The  
Employer shall retain ‘one (1%) percent of the gross proceeds from the checkoff as  
reimbursement for the Employer's costs in administering this checkoff. The Union  
agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from any and all claims, actions  
_, and/or proceedings arising out of said New York. State Laborers Political Action  
Committee.  
22  
+  
re .  
re  
i a “ ? }  
### ARTICLE XXIV - EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY __  
The Employer and the Union mutually agree that they will comply and cooperate with  
all laws, codes, rules, regulations, executive orders, and administrative decisions, whether state  
or federal, dealing with nondiscrimination in training, membership, employment, job tenure,  
promotions, and every other matter covered by such laws, codes, etc. not herein expressly  
mentioned. The use of masculine or r feminine gender i in this ‘agreement shall be construed as  
including both genders.  
### ARTICLE XXV - MOST FAVORED EMPLOYER  
1. If the Union enters inito'any with any individual Employer or group  
of Employers performing work covered by the terms of this Agreement and that Agreement  
signatory hereto; after seriding Writien ‘of such i intention, shall be afforded the privilege  
to adopt such advantageous terms and conditions. ~~  
2. This clause shall i niet apply to isdlated or emergency : situations which may occur  
from time to time tinder regular conditions, nor shal} this clause apply to any project agreement  
that is is put in place’ before the bid.  
~ . . woe  
i 4 ? i * te a ‘aus +’ a  
### ARTICLE XXVI - APPRENTICESHIP .  
LA registered apprenticeship taining program. Isto be established for each Local,  
that ‘fully complies with’ ‘all indenturing apprentices to, -the  
program. a 1 tous ode Hs “we  
  
+ cat ie ' a he ok . 5 4 “  
. we pA hem ‘ 4 aie Fa’ .  
:, oe nd rst ut ¢ 38 Le 7 oe ow k . ae L . ee ows oe  
_ . There will be 2 Joint t Apprenticeship 7 ‘Training Comittee (ATC) for each  
Local's program consisting of fe ‘fepresentati ves from’ the’ union and the employers. ‘who, will  
administer ihe rules ‘ari regulations for. the re program | for each Local.  
applicants for’ membership who % éannot provide fedgdtiable proof. of 4 .000  
or more hours of employment as a Construction Craft Laborer (or, alternatively. cannot  
demonstrate equivalent skills in a placement examination administered by the JATC shall,  
whenever possible, enter the Apprenticeship program. The failure of any Apprentice to  
maintain his or her Apprenticeship status may obligate the Employer to discharge such  
person upon notice from the Union.  
4. The Apprenticeship and Training Standards approved by the Federal Bureau of  
Apprenticeship and Training or State Apprenticeship Committee are hereby incorporated  
by reference as a part of this Agreement.  
5. The ratio of apprentices to journey workers on any project site is 1:3.  
Apprentices shall be covered by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and shall be  
paid according to the following schedule of wages and fringe benefits:  
23  
Hours of Credit. ..'... -. Wage Rate .  
0-999 60 % of basic rate (a)  
+1000-1,999 .. .. «70% of basic rate (a)  
2,000 - 2,999 | -: +» 80 % of basic rate (a)  
3,000 - 3,999 90 % of basic rate (a).  
4,000 and over _ Journey Worker  
The corresponding percentaze of. fringe benefits. to be paid will be determined by  
each Local J AIC.  
6. Ally wage increases are subject to an apprentice completing the preceding 1,000  
: + hour increments. .  
"Tos Apprentice applicants are required to have a substance abuse test and physical  
prior to acceptance into the program or union, unless precluded by State or Federal law.  
*  
### ARTICLE XXVII - SAVINGS CLAUSE  
In the event that any State or Federal Statute or Law shall supersede or invalidate  
any clauses tn this Agreement, such Statute or Law shall prevail over any such clause:  
however, the other provisions of.this Agreement shall be valid and remain in full force and  
effect. In the event that any section or portion thereof shall be declared invalid, it is further  
agreed that the parties hereto shall meet within a period of sixty (60) days to redraft a new  
section or portion thereof, which pal be valid ae which shall replace that section or  
portion thereof declared invalid. - :  
24  
ft te Fo sf  
-  
### ARTICLE XXVIII - WAGES  
1. A Laborer shall be paid for the entire day at the rate applicable to the  
highest classification in which he has worked that day, if he works rou (4) or more hours  
in the higher classification.  
2. Whenever the letters (a), (b), (c), and (d) appear hereinafter, the use of the  
_Jetter shall be considered as describing the following work classifications:  
(a)  
(cy  
Basic Rate, Drill Helper, Flagmen, Outboard and Hand Boats.  
) ‘Bull Float Chain Saw, Concrete Aggregate Bin, ‘Concrete  
Bootman, Gin Buggy, Hand or Machine Vibrator, Jack Harnmer,  
- .. Mason Tender,.Mortar Mixer, Pavement Breaker, Handlers of al]  
. Steel. Mesh,.Small.Generators for tools, mstallation of  
bndge drainage pipe, pipe layers, vibrator type rollers, tamper, dnill  
doctor, tai] or screw operator on asphalt paver, water pump operator  
(1 42° and single diaphragm) nozzle (asphalt, gunite, seeding, and  
_ sand blasting}; Laborers link fence erection, rock splitter  
and power unit, pusher type concrete saw and all other gas, electric,  
oil, ane’ air rise operators, wrecking laborer.  
‘  
ts, All rock or st drilling: machine operators. (except Quarry master “and  
.. ~ Sumilar‘type), ‘acetylene: porch operators, and. ‘asphalt  
oS powderman: eer ee Eg ee yar ott  
(d)  
wert  
- ~~  
Blasters, form setters, stone or granite‘curb  
3. Wage rates, Welfare, Pension, S.U.B., Annuity, Training, L.E.C.E.T., and  
N.Y. Health and Safety contributions and deduction amounts are set forth below.  
NOTE: The base wage appearing below includes the amount to be deducted for each  
actual hour worked for DUES.  
25  
### CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION LRD/AGC  
### LABORERS - 6 UPSTATE LOCALS  
### 2002- 2007 HIGHWAY-HEA VY. WAGE RATE SCHEDULES  
Effective July 1, 2002 - June 30, 2003  
upon receipt of signed authorization cards from employees. A percentage deduction will be on gross  
wages exclusive of fringe benefits.  
Effective July 1, 2003: $1.00 Gross increase for each classification  
Effective July 1, 2004: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification  
Effective July 1, 2005: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification  
Effective July 1, 2006 - June 30, 2007: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification  
Prepared By:  
Labor Relations Division  
Associated General Contractors  
New York State Chapter. Inc.  
5/15/02  
2002 LIUNA cny wage schedules  
26  
### ZONE f  
LECET - *Dues ‘*Pac  
_ Welfare Pension H.&S. Training “Annuity Ded. Ded, Total  
Local 7 (Binghamton)  
a)$20.19 $2.55 $3.50 $.15 $.50 $1.00 $-4.5% oreo $27.89  
b)$20.39 $28.09  
« €)$20.59 of. $28.29  
d)$20.79 | . nos $28.49  
Local 433 (Syracuse)  
a)$19.24 $3.55 $2.55 $20 $35 $2.00 = §-.05 $27.89  
b)$19.44 $28.09  
$28.29  
d)$19.84 $28.49  
_ -Local 589  
a)$18.89 $2.90 $3.20 $.15 §$.30 $2.45 5% $27.89  
b)$19.09 $28.09  
c)$19.29 $28.29  
d)$19.49 $28.49  
LECET 3... ,*Dues *Pac  
Welfare Pension H.&S. Training © Annuity ‘Ded. Ded. Total  
Local 186 ‘ yo : : .  
a)$19.99 $4.65 $2.35 $.15 $.40 ween - ~~ $27.54  
b)$20.19 $27.74  
c)$20.39 . at ty $27.94  
d)$20.59 | $28.14  
Local 214 (Oswego) ' |  
a)$19.84 $4.15 $2.00: ° $15 °° $40 $1.60 7% $27.54  
b)$20.04 $27.74  
c)$20.24 $27.94  
d)$20.44 — _  
Local 322 (Massena) a |  
a)$20.14 $3.50 $2.85 $.15° °$.40 - $.50 $27.54"  
b)$20.34 $27.74  
c)$20.54 $27.94  
d)$20.74 $28.14  
4, The wage rates for foremen.covered by-this Agreement are as follows:  
### "MAL  
(a) Grade Foremen — T-wo dollars ($2.00) over the basic rate.  
(b)- Other Foremen - One doliar and fifty cents($1.50) over the highest  
' classification covered by this Agreement’ which Such foremen  
supervise... .  
(c) Any foremen covered by this Agreement may be employed on:a weekly  
basis at a salary agreeable to the Employer and ine foremen:  
5. DRILLS" Individual wagon drills, trackmounted drills, jack-leg d drills and  
multiple type drills shall require a drill helper except that the Union and the. Employer  
recognize that in certain cases one helper may be able to service more than one such  
cases, the manning shall be parauant tO a Project agrecment between’ the Union and the  
Employer.  
6. HAZARDOUS WASTE. When an employee covered by this 5 Agreement  
performs hazardous waste removal; lead abatement and removal; asbestos abatement and  
removal work on a State and/or Federally. designated waste site, and where relevant State  
and/or Federal regulations require to » be furnished, and those em oes use Or wear  
hourly rate plus $2.00 per hour. re mE whee END:  
eT, DAVIS-BACON PROJECTS. The application of Davis-Bacon, wage rates  
posted: on a 100% Federally funded project shall be negotiated Derwesn. the local. business  
manager and prospective bidders, on a project by project basis., -: ee  
8B. In the event that work not traditionally assigned to laborers is: By mutual  
consent'of the parties, performed by laborers, a rate appropriate to the classification’ will be  
paid to the affected worker for. the actual hours such work was performed. - ee  
2]  
### ARTICLE XXIX - DURATION AND TERMINATION  
_ It is agreed by both parties that all the conditions of this Agreement shall remain in full  
force and effect from April 1, 2002 to March 31,.2007, and during each calendar year  
thereafter, unless on or before the 30th day of January, 2007, or any year thereafter, written  
notice of change to this Agreement be served by either party upon the other party.  
_IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the periies hereto have cansed this Agreement to be duly  
7 subscribed by their duly authorized representatives the day and year first above written.  
     
     
   
### FOR THE LRD/AGC CENTRAL . FOR LOCAL  
### NEW YORK  
   
### FOR LOCA |  
7 fy  
Richard Daddario  
   
    
   
   
Gabriel Rosetti  
FOR LOCAL 589: |  
ohn Maxson  
28  
### INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYER  
In consideration of the time, efforts, and sums expended by the Union, the Labor  
Relations Division and the Employer in the negotiation of the foregoing contract. in  
consideration of the similar ume, effort and sums expended and to be expended in its  
administration, and further consideration of the mutuai promises and obligations of the Union,  
the Labor Relations Division and its’ ‘member contractors, and Employers, t the undersi gned  
individual Employer: agrees: ne  
~ ¥ .  
t  
l. That he (it) hae read the foregoing c collective bargaining Agreement, dated  
April 1, 2002, and agrees, as an individual Employer to be bound by each and all of the terms,  
conditions ‘and provisions‘thereof and“also agrees to be bound by the interpretations and  
enforcement of the Agreement. He dp further agrees to furnish both the Labor Relations  
Division and the Union with signed’ copies of this Agreement.  
2... That.he.(it): waives the right to name or. participate: in the selection of any  
management trustee to any‘and all jointly rusteed funds provided for in said Agreement.  
further agrees to accept the trustees now named to these funds as his designated trustees, and  
agrees to be bound by the provisions'of the trust indentures creating the respective funds.  
   
“2 . - iS  
. ve  
* . .  
F - = 8 r ~~.  
ed si. +. awe ee et » *  
Name of § «sew otha @a PS Is ani OU ce we NM SRR ae. Og ee, od t+ we  
e  
,  
a* . . % t  
= so ~ #4  
By: tg  
An Authorized Officer. wile _  
   
. a . eae a wee  
ae eos et ee  
me eee aE . eee ny t  
"+ . are 7 wee et  
   
Firm Street Address 7  
hm yet :  
28. em ~ a4  
at .  
. ee  
+ s - ~s i  
   
City and State 00) 2 ee  
   
Telephone Number 2.0} 03 *  
   
Local Union:  
By:  
   
Authorized Representative::: ‘*  
‘+  
Date: _- ae  
### UNION COPY  
### INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYER  
In.consideration of the efforts, and sums expended by the Union, the Labor  
Relations Division and the Employer in the negotiation of the foregoing contract, in  
consideration of the similar ume, effort and sums expended and to be expended in its  
administration, and further consideration of the mutual promises and obligations of the Union,  
the Labor Relations Division and its member contractors, and Employers, the undersigned  
individual Employer agrees:  
1. That he (it) has read the foregoing collective bargaining Agreement, dated  
‘April 1, 2002, and agrees, as an individual Employer to be bound by each and all of the terms,  
conditions and provisions thereof and also-agrees ‘to be bound by the interpretations and  
enforcement of the Agreement. He (It) further agrees to furnish both the Labor Relations  
Division and the Union with signed copies. of this Agreement.  
2. That he (it) waives the right to name or participate in the selection of any  
management trustee to any and all jointly‘trusteed funds provided for in said Agreement,  
further agrees to accept the trustees now named to these funds as his designated trustees, and  
agrees to be bound by the provisions of the trust indentures creating the respective funds.  
Name of Firm  
By:  
An Authorized Officer, Title  
Firm Street Address  
a  
City and State  
   
Telephone Number  
Local Union:  
By:  
Authorized Representative  
Date:  
   
NOTE: This page to be filled out in duplicate and one copy forwarded to:  
Labor Relations Division  
New York State Chapter, Inc. |  
Associated General Contractors of America  
1900 Western Avenue  
Albany, New York 12203  
### LRD/AGC COPY (LABORERS) (6 UPSTATE LOCALS)  
liuna agreement  
30  
a>  
—— —— -  
. ‘Daily Labor Report - AGC of New York, Laborers Negotiate Page | of 3  
Search  
   
No. 70 Page A-3  
Thursday, April 11, 2002  
ISSN 1522-5968  
News  
   
Construction  
AGC of New York, Laborers Negotiate  
Highway Contracts Covering 3,800 Workers  
Negotiators for the Associated General Contractors' New York State Chapter Inc. and eight  
International Union locals have reached agreements--some final, some tentative--  
covering approximately 3,800 laborers performing highway work in the state, according to  
association and union sources.  
The parties have a tentative agreement with Laborers Local 210 in Buffalo, a ratified contract  
for five years with six upstate locals, and a ratified pact for two years with Local 35 in Utica.  
The AGC chapter also reached a tentative contract with Buffalo-based International Union of  
Operating Engineers Local 17 on a three-year agreement providing $4.75 more over term. A  
tentative settlement between the parties April 8 ended a strike by 1,000 or so union members  
against AGC-represented highway contractors in the Buffalo and Jamestown areas that  
began April 1 (69 DLR A-6, 4/10/02).  
In addition, the AGC chapter and the Empire State Regional Council of the Carpenters and  
. Joiners of America in Hauppauge have conducted initial talks for one new agreement  
covering highway work in New York outside of the New York City area, Gordon Knapp,  
Carpenters regional director, said April 9. Approximately 800 Carpenters are working under  
‘an extension of two agreements with the AGC state chapter that expired March 31, he said.  
Current hourly rates under the extended AGC agreement with Carpenters Local 281 in  
Johnson City are $23.07 journey level wage and $6.705 employee benefit fund contribution  
total. Current rates under the extended AGC agreement with Carpenters Local 66 in Olean  
are $20.635 journey level rate and $7.91 employee benefit fund contribution totai.  
Laborers Local 210 in Buffalo and AGC negotiators reached a tentative contract April 4, Ted  
Czerw, assistant managing director of the state chapter, said April 8. The tentative, three-  
agreement would provide successive increases of $1.25 per hour (3.8 percent more), $1.25  
per hour (3.7 percent more), and $1.30 per hour (3.7 percent more), he said. The current total ~  
wage and employee benefit fund contribution rate under the pre-existing contract  
the parties was $33. 86, he said. |  
Laborers Local 210 officials could not be reached for comment. Local 210 represents  
approximately 1,800 workers on highway projects.  
Multi-Local Upstate Agreement  
AGC has negotiated a five-year agreement that went into effect April 1 with six upstate  
eq] D Laborers locals: Local 7 in Binghamton, Local 186 in Plattsburg; Local 214 in Oswego; Local  
K 322 in Massina; Local 433 in Syracuse; and, Local 589 in Ithica. However, new first-year  
_— rates will not go into effect until July 1, Czerw said.  
http://pubs.bna.com/ip/BNA/dlr.nsffid/a0a5kIb7p6_ | 4/11/02  
### CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION LRD/AGC  
### LABORERS - 6 UPSTATE LOCALS  
### 2002- 2007 HIGHWAY-HEAVY WAGE RATE SCHEDULES  
Effective July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2004  
K 8470  
   
### ZONE I  
LECET *Dues *Pac  
Welfare Pension H.&S. Training Annuity Ded, Ded. Total  
Local 7 (Binghamton) -  
a)$20.49 $2.80 $3.70 $.15 $.65 $1.10 $-5% $-.05 $28.89  
b)$20.69 $29.09  
c)$20.89 $29.29  
d)$21.09 $29.49  
Local 433 (Syracuse)  
a)$19.49 $3.55 $3.05 $.20 $.60 $2.00 -6% $-.05 $28.89  
b)$19.69 $29.09  
c)$19.89 $29.29  
d)$20.09 $29.49  
Local 589 (Ithaca)  
aj$19.54 $2.90 $3.45 $15 $.30 $2.55 5% -—- $28.89  
b)$19.74 . $29.09  
c)$19,94 $29.29  
d)$20.14 $29.49  
### ZONE  
LECET *Dues *Pac  
Welfare Pension H. Training Annuity Ded. Ded. Total  
Local 186 (Plattsburgh)  
aj$19.99 $4.65 $3.35 $.15 $.40 -$1.909 — $28.54  
b)$20.19 $28.74  
c)$20.39 $28.94  
d)$20.59 $29.14  
Local 214 (Oswego)  
a)$20.49 $4.50 $2.00 $.15 $.40 $1.00 -7% --—~ $28.54  
b)$20.69 $28.74  
c)$20.89 $28.94  
d)$21.09 $29.14  
Local 322 (Massena) |  
2)$20.29 $3.70 $3.50 $.15 $.40 $.50 -T% --—- $28.54  
b)$20.49 $28.74  
c)$20.69 $28.94  
d)$20.89 $29.14  
*Deductions upon receipt of signed authorization cards from employees. A percentage deduction will be  
on gross wages exclusive of fringe benefits.  
Effective July 1, 2004: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification  
Effective July 1, 2005: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification  
Effective July 1, 2006 - June 30, 2007: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification  
Prepared By:  
Labor Relations Division  
Associated General Contractors  
New York State Chapter, inc.  
6/9/03  
2003 LIUNA cny wage schedules  
_ \  
. » Daily Labor Report - AGC of New York, Laborers Negotiate | . Page 2 of 3  
in addition, AGC and Laborers Local 35 in Utica have settled for two years, according to a  
union source.  
The upstate agreements cover approximately 2,000 workers, according to Bill Shannon,  
Local 214 business manager who participated in the negotiations. The settlements are fair  
agreements, he said.  
The new contract provides successive annual increases of $1 per hour (3.7 percent more),  
per hour (3.6 percent more). $1.25 per hour (4.3 percent.more), $1.25 per hour (4.1 percent  
more), and $1.25 per hour (3.9 percent more), Czerw said.  
Total wage and benefit fund contribution rates under the prior agreement between the parties  
were $27.09 for Zone | (Locals 7, 35, 433, and 589) and $26.84 for Zone II (Locals 186, 214,  
and 322), according to Czerw.  
Members of Local 214 have not yet ratified the proposed agreement, Shannon said. Although  
a union membership meeting is scheduled for April 8, allocation may not be determined until  
next month, he said. Prior rates for Loca! 214 members are $19.09 for the base rate and  
$7.55 for the employee benefit fund contribution total, he said.  
Members of Local 186 ratified the agreement March 28, a Local 186 offtcial said April 8.  
Union members debated allocation of the first-year, $1 per hour raise with some members.  
wanting the entire amount applied to wages and others wanting the amount split between  
wages and benefit fund contributions, he said. Ultimately, the union decided for an even split  
with 50 cents going to wages and 50 cents going to the health and welfare fund contribution,  
he said.  
New hourly rates for Local 186 are $19.99 base wage (50 cents increase) and $4.65 health  
and welfare fund contribution (50 cents more). Other employee benefit fund contribution rates  
were carried over at $2.35 per hour for the pension fund, 40 cents per hour for apprenticeship  
and training, 10 cents per hour for the Laborers-Employer Cooperation and Education Trust,  
and 5 cents per hour for safety, he said.  
Two-Year Agreement for Utica Area  
For Loca! 35 in Utica, the two-year agreement calls for $1.35 per hour more for wages and  
in the first year and 95 cents per hour more the second year, a Local 35 official said  
April 9.  
The initial $1.35 per hour increase will be allocated on July 1 as 75 cents to the base wage  
rate, 35 cents per hour more for the health and welfare fund contribution, 20 cents more for  
the pension fund contribution, and 5 cents to inaugurate an annuity fund contribution, he said.  
Those increases will raise the base rate from $19.25 to $20 per hour, the health and welfare  
fund contribution from $3.65 to $4 per hour, and the pension fund contribution rate from $3.59  
to $3.79 per hour, he said.  
Other benefit fund contribution rates will carry over at 15 cents for a combined LECET and  
safety fund, and 25 cents for apprenticeship, the official said.  
Laborers Loca! 35 members approved the agreement at a membership meeting in March, he  
said.  
By James Skovron  
http://pubs.bna.com/ip/BNA/dir.nsf/id/aQa5k 1b7p6_ 4/11/02  
Note to files K 8993 and 8470  
Early in 2002, LIUNA Local 35 was transferred from the  
Central New York Region to the Albany Region. As a result,  
it was agreed between the AGC and LIUNA that Local 35 would  
be covered under K 8993 and be removed from K 8470. The  
enclosed memorandum of agreement between the parties  
authorizes the change as of April 1, 2002. As it also  
states, Local 35’s wages will change to those of Locals 157  
and 190 effective July 1, 2002.  
### JKS  
4/22/02  
+++ COMP LVLS TRENDS [@)002/002  
a _  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA  
### NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER, INC.  
   
March 27, 2002  
### CHAPTER OFFICE  
1900 Waster avanue Mr. Sam Marchio  
New York .  
Telephone: (10) 486-1134 Business Manager  
AJ. East. Vice President LIUNA Local 35  
### WESTERN REGIONAL OFFICE {12 South Street  
Pan lee vers, Utica. NY 1350]  
Tetephone:(716) 674-S50D  
Fax: i714) 674-6401  
Dear Sam:  
As you know, negotiations were recently concluded between the  
Central New York Region LRD/AGC and LIUNA Locals 7, 35, 186, 214,  
322, 433 and S89, It was brought out during negotiations that Local 35 was  
being transferred to the Eastern District Council of Laborers which includes  
Local 157 Schenectady and Local 190 Albany, It was understood and coed  
1926-2001 that Local 35 could transfer from the Central New York agreement to the ?  
Albany Region LRD/ gement at the appropriate time deemed best for  
Years eee  
Local 35 has chosen to become part of the Albany Region LRD/AGC  
agreement and has the consent of the LRD/AGC to do so.  
Therefore, effective April 1, 2002, Local 35 will be bound by the  
terms and conditions of the 2000-2004 Agreement between the Albany  
Region LRD/AGC agreement with LIUNA Locals 157,&: 590 and effective  
July I, 2002 will have the same gross wage rate as Locals 157 & 190.  
Concurrently, all reference to Local 35 will be stricken from the newly  
negotiated April 1. 2002 - March 31, 2007 Central New York Region  
LRD/AGC agreement with LIUNA Locals 7, 186, 214, 322, 433 and $89.  
Sincerely,  
Theodore J. Czerw  
Assistant Managing Director ,  
_ce: William Shannon Sam Fresina  
Rocky Burns - Eugene D. Hallock, II  
Casey Bums Jonas Havens  
Stephen Compagni Ron Wolfe  
Todd Curran John E. Maloy, Jr.  
David DeJohn  
local 35 transfer