Cornell University  
ILR School  
   
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header  
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School,  
Cornell University. The information provided Is for noncommercial educational use only.  
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the  
digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent  
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.  
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see  
htto://digitalcommons..ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/  
Or contact us:  
Catherwood Library, lves Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853  
607-254-5370 — ilrref@ cornell.edu  
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -  
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/2/)  
Title: Associated General Contractors of Minnesota (Highway, Railroad And Heavy  
Construction Division) and International Union of Operating Engineers (IUOE),  
AFL-CIO, Local 49 (2005)  
K# 8473  
Employer Name: Associated General Contractors of Minnesota (Highway, Railroad  
And Heavy Construction Division)  
Location: MN  
Union: International Union of Operating Engineers (IUOE), AFL-CIO  
Local: 49  
SIC: 1611 NAICS: 23731  
Sector: P Number of Workers: 4200  
Effective Date: 05/01/05 Expiration Date: 04/30/08  
Number of Pages: 64 Other Years Available: Y  
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of  
the Catherwood website -  
For additional information on the ILR School, htto://www.ilr.cornell.edu/  
   
      
    
   
   
“ re cS =  
a ere wed  
ik Ce ee ee ae  
4  
leds  
ia ar 2 es: Pin ed oe ee ee ie  
es ae a i ee  
H - be  
### A  
‘ ak r  
' - ar | an)  
ao  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### PACE  
### ARTICLE 1 -CONSIDERATIONS  
### FOR AGREEMENT 1  
### ARTICLE 2- DESIGNATION OF PARTIES .............-2  
### ARTICLE 3 - UNION RECOGNITION 2  
### ARTICLE 4- SCOPE OF 2  
### ARTICLE 5- UNION SECURITY 4  
### ARTICLE 6 - HIRING 4  
### ARTICLE 7~.iINSURANCE AND TAXES 13  
### ARTICLE & - CONFLICTING AGREEMENTS. .......... 13  
### ARTICLE $- VIOLATIONS OF AGREEMENT.......... 14  
### ARTICLE 10 - DISCHARGE 14  
### ARTICLE 11 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES............ 15  
### ARTICLE 12 - MANAGEMENT  
### ARTICLE 13 - SAFETY 17  
### ARTICLE 14 - FICKETS, BANNERS, 18  
### ARTICLE 15 - STRIKES, LOCKOUT  
### WORK INTERFERENCE 18  
ARTICLE 16 - 19  
### \RTICLE 17 - UNION REPRESENTATIVES ............. 20  
### ARTICLE 18 - ROTATION OF EMPLOYEES ............. 20  
### ARTICLE 19 - PAYROLL RECORDS 20  
### ARTICLE 20 - APPLICATION OF WAGE RATES......20  
### \RTICLE 21 - PAYDAY AND WAGE PAYMENT ...._.21  
### ARTICLE 22 - FRINGE BENEFITS 32  
### RTICLE 23 - SAVING CLAUSE 26  
RTICLE 24 - ENTIRE UNDERSTANUING .............. 237  
### URTICLE 25 - DURATION Q7  
### CHEDULE 1 - NEW 27  
Re Rem RR weg stn wwe  
### CHEDULE 3- ants OVERTIME,  
SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS ............ 45  
### CHEDULE 4 - OWNER-OPERATORS 43  
### SCHEDULE § - MANNING BY OPERATORS........... 4g  
### SCHEDULE 6- CALL IN PAY 5A!  
SCHEDULE 7 - DEFINITION OF WORK.................55  
### SCHEDULE & - APPRENTICE TRAINING AND ;  
RETRAINING 00... 57.  
### INSURANCE PROGRAM  
### SCHEDULE 11 - WORKERS’ COMPENSATION........  
### SIGNATURE PAGE |  
5  
### SCHEDULE 10 - NATIONAL HEALTH :  
### AGREEMENT  
Between  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF MINNESOTA  
### HIGHWAY, RAILROAD AND HEAVY  
### CONSTRUCTION DIVISION  
And  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS  
### LOCAL NO. 49  
2005 - 2008  
(Expires on April 30, 2008)  
THIS AGREEMENT, by and between, or on behalf  
of the parties and in the capacities and statua des-  
ignated in Article 2, hereof, establish rates of pay,  
wages, hours of employment, fringe benefits, and  
vacations where applicable, and other terms and  
provisions concerning employment relations and  
collective bargaining relations and collective bar-  
gaining between or involving such parties.  
NOW, THEREFORE, for such purposes, it is  
agreed as follows:  
### ARTICLE 1 - CONSIDERATIONS FOR  
### AGREEMENT  
1.01 The considerations for this Agreement are  
the mutual promises of the parties and their  
mutual purposes to establish, maintain and pro-  
mote sound and harmonious labor relations, It is  
desirable to maintain the cooperative relation-  
ships existing during past years between the  
Employers and the Employees represented by the  
Union. It is, therefore, the mutual purposes of  
both parties to preserve past practices to the  
fullest extent possible.  
### I  
### ARTICLE 2 - DESIGNATION OF PARTIES  
2.01 The Companies to this Agreement,  
hereinafter called Employers or contractors, are a  
party to this Agreement and agree to be bound to the  
terme of this Agreement. They are parties hereto as  
principals, but their status is several and not joint.  
2.02 The labor organizations on their own behalf  
and on behalf of the Employees whom they repre-  
sent and on whose behalf they are recognized or to  
be recognized are parties hereto. The status of  
said Union is dual, in that they are parties hereto  
as principals and also as agenta for the Employees  
whom they represent and on whose behalf they are  
Tecognized, or to be recognized as hereinafter pro-  
vided.  
### ARTICLE 3 - UNION RECOGNITION  
3,01 The Employers hereby recognize each of the  
Unions to which the Contractor has agreed to be  
bound, as the exclusive collective bargaining rep-  
resentative of the Employees in the craft signato-  
ry to this Agreement, in respect to rates of pay,  
wagea, hours of employment and fringe benefits,  
where applicable, and other conditions of employ:  
ment, The respective Unions are hereby recog:  
nized hereunder by the Employers as the sole anc  
exclusive bargaining representatives of the  
Employees respectively represented by them. Th:  
respective Unions represent that they are quali  
fied for such recognition.  
### ARTICLE 4 - SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  
4.01 This Agreement shall cover all constructio  
work done in the entire State of Minnesot:  
Eastern wage zone shall consist of Aitkin, Anok.  
Blue Barth, Carlton, Carver, Chisago, Coo  
Dakota, Dodge, Faribault, Fillmore, Freebor  
2  
Goodhue, Henrepin, Houston, Isanti, Kanabec,  
Lake, Le Sueur, Mille Lacs, Mower, O)msted, Pine,  
Ramsey, Rice, St. Louis, Scott, Sherburne, Steele,  
Wabasha, Waseca, Winona and  
Wright Counties in their entirety and that part of  
Koochiching County east of a north-south tine  
from the Canadian border to Pelland, the western  
right of way of US Highway 71 from Pelland to Big  
Falls and Minnesota Highway 6; that part of  
Itasca County east of the western right of way of  
Minnesota Highway 6; that part of Cass County  
south of the northern right of way of US Highway  
2 and east of the western right of way of US  
Highway 371, that part of Crow Wing County east  
af the western right of way of US Highway 371;  
that pari of Morrison County east of the western  
right of way of US Highway 371 and US Highway  
10 fram Little Falis to the Morrisen-Benton  
County line; that part of Benton County east of the  
western right of way of US Highway 16; and that  
part of Brown, McLeod, Martin, Meeker, Nicoltet,  
Sibley, Stearns gnd Watonwan Counties east of the  
western right of way of Minnesota Highway 16.  
4.02 In every case, the entire corporate limits of  
cities, towns and villages located on the bound-  
aries described by US Highways 2, 10, 71 and 371  
and Minnesota Highways 6 and 15 shalt be inelud-  
ed in the Eastern Wage Zone.  
4.03 The Western Zone shall consist of the balance  
of the State.  
### t.04 EASTERN METROPOLITAN ZONE {See  
Nage District Map) In counties of Anoka, Carver,  
Jook, Dakota, Hennepin, Lake, Ramsey, St. Louis,  
icott and Washington Counties, that part of  
therburne County south of the northern boundary  
fT. 33-N and east of the western boundary of R.  
7-W and that part of Wright County east of and  
3  
   
ineluding Highway 25, and that part of Chisago  
County south of the northern boundary of T. 34-N  
and that part consisting substantially of the cities  
of Thomson, Clequet, Scanlon and Carlton are  
defined as the Eastern Metropolitan Zone.  
### ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY  
§.G1 Each of the Unions recognized under Article  
8 of this Agreement shal] be entitled to union secu-  
rity to the extent that erch Employee in the col-  
lective bargaining unit represented by such Union  
shall, on the eighth (8th) day following the begin-  
ning of employment in such collective bargaining  
unit by such Employer under the coverage of this  
Agreement or the effective date of this Agreement,  
whichever is later, be required ta become and  
remain a member in good standing of such Union  
as & condition of empleyment.  
5.02 The Employer will be required to dismiss  
Employees who refuse to comply with this Unior  
Shop provision after written notification by «  
bonafide representative of the Union to a respon  
sible representative of the Employer on the job.  
§.03 Each of the Unions shall be entitied i  
approach individual Employees for organizations  
purposes as provided hy law. All organizations  
functions must be pursucd during that perio  
which will not conflict with the Employer's work  
### ARTICLE 6 - HIRING  
6.61 As set forth herein, Employers shal! give t!  
Union Referral Office the first opportunity to pr  
vide journeymen or apprentices needed by 1)  
Employer in any of the classifications covered |  
this Agreement. The Employer shall inform t  
Union Referral Office of the location, starti  
time, approximate duration of the job, type af we  
4  
to be performed, and the number of applicants  
required, The Employer shall allow forty-eight  
(48) hours for the Union referral of the prospective  
employees(s).  
6.02 Except as specifically limited by this  
Agreement, the Union shall be the sole and exclu-  
sive source of referrais of applicants for employ-  
ment. The Union shall establish, maintain and  
keep current a  nondiscriminatory Open  
Employment List of Applicants for the work clas-  
sifications covered by this Agreement. Such Open  
Employment List shall not be based on, nor shall  
referrals be in any way affected by Union  
Membership, Union constitution, Union by-laws,  
rules or regulations, or by any other aspect or  
obligation of Union membership policies or  
requirements. Any Employee who is hired in vio-  
lation of this Article shal] be discharged by the  
Employer when the violation has been brought to  
hig attention in writing by the Business  
Representative.  
6.63 Registration or re-registration of applicants  
for referral from the Open Employment List shall  
be accepted at the Union Hall at any time between  
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 pm,, Monday  
through Friday (holidays excepted). All applicants  
shall be registered in order of the time and date of  
registration. In order to maintain an up-to-date  
source of experienced applicants, in order to  
remain on the Open Employment List, an appli-  
cant for referral must renew their registration not  
later than sixty (60) days from the date of their  
last registration or re-registration. Upen their ini-  
tial registration, each applicant for referra] shall  
be required to submit a work card of experience  
and qualifications, and such other data as may be  
pertinent. Upon re-registration, such applicant  
shaJl furnish such additional information as may  
5  
be required ta keep the employment data current  
and accurate. Applicants who do not re-register  
will be assumed to have found employment out-  
side of our craft jurisdiction or, for other reasons,  
to no longer desire to be dispatched. Applicants  
who re-register will not lose their place on the out-  
of-work list. Late applicants will be placed at the  
bottom of their appropriate group,  
6.04 The Union shall refer to an Employer only  
those applicants whose names appear on the Open  
Employment List. Each applicant for employment  
shall be registered in the highest priority group for  
which they are qualified. Nothing contained here-  
in shall deny the Union the right to select any  
applicant for referral on the basis of experience in  
the industry, qualifications or skills-- regardless of  
the Employee's place on the out-of-work list. The  
following general principles shall prevail in the  
referral of applicants:  
{A) Request by Employers for master mechanics  
shall be honored without regard to the  
requested person's place on the Open  
Employment List.  
(B) An Employer's request for an individual oper-  
ator by name will be honored, provided that  
(1) at the time of the request, the operator  
requested is presently on the out-of work list,  
and has been on the out-of-work list at least  
five (5) consecutive days; or (2) the operator  
has been employed regularly on a season-to-  
season basis by the requesting Employer or  
(3) has worked for the requesting Employer in  
the past five (5) years as an operator. All  
requests are based on having worked in Local  
#49's jurisdiction as an Operating Engineer.  
(C) Bonafide requests by Employers for appli-  
cants with special skills and abilities shall be  
6  
(D)  
({E)  
(¥)  
honored, and persons possessing such skills  
and abilities shal! be referred in the order in  
which their names appear on the Open  
Employment List.  
In the hest interest of the industry and to  
maintain @ poo! of learners, requests by  
Employers for applicants who are to be  
employed as oilers and greasers, and are sons  
or daughters or sons-in-law or daughters-n-  
law of management ar of Operating  
Engineers (seeking summer employment  
only), shall be honored without regard to the  
requested applicant's place on the Open  
Employment List.  
The Employers and the Union mutually agree  
that the provisions of this Article shall not be  
applicable to the employment of workers  
employed by the Employer during the preced-  
ing twelve (12) months in the State of  
Minnesota, The Employer agrees to notify the  
Unien by phone or mail of employees rehired  
under the provisions of this section as soon as  
possible or within fifteen (15) days of rehire.  
Except in the case of applicants referred pur-  
suant to subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (D) and  
(E) of this section, and subject te experience in  
the industry, qualifications or skills, apph-  
cants (including otlers and greasers) shali be  
referred as follows:  
(1) Applicants who have worked in the State  
af Minnesota in the categories of employ-  
ment covered by this Agreement for an  
aggregate time of two thousand (2000)  
hours or more immediately preceding  
registration shall constitute Group A.  
Applicants shall be referred from Group  
A in the order in which their names  
7  
   
   
(2)  
(3)  
<4}  
(5)  
appear on the Open Employment List  
Group A has been exhausted.  
Applicants who have werked in the State  
of Minnesota in the categories covered by  
this Agreement for an aggregate time of  
more than five hundred (600) but less  
than two thousand (2000) hours, during  
the period of three (3) yeara immediately  
preceding registration shal] constitute  
Group B. After Group A has been  
exhausted, applicants from Group B shall  
be referred in successive order as their  
names appear on the Open Employment  
List until Group B has been exhausted.  
All applicants not. in Group A or Group B  
shall constitute Group C. When Group A  
and Group B have been exhausted, appli-  
cants from Group € shall be referred in  
auccessive order as their names appear  
on the Open Employment List.  
Any applicant reeciving a pension from  
the International Unien, Local Union or  
from any source of the industry, including  
Social Security, shall be included in Group  
B. When Group A has been exhausted,  
applicants from Group B shall be referred  
in Successive order as their names appear  
on the Open Employment List.  
Each Empleyer shall have the absolute  
and unconditional right to reject any  
applicant referred by the Union. Ne  
applicant shalf be entitled to call-in-pa;  
or shaw up time, if rejected. IF the  
Employer ia notified by the Unior  
Referral Office that the requested help i  
not available or if the prospéctiv  
Employee(s) referred do not appear fo  
&  
{6}  
(7)  
work within the required time, then the  
Employer may hire from any other avail-  
able source.  
Any applicant who is rejected by the  
Employer to whom they are referred for  
employment shall be restored to their  
place on the Open Employment List.  
When applicant is actually employed on a  
job to which they were referred for more  
than seven {7) days, such applicants  
name shall be removed from the Open  
Employment List. If an applicant, upon  
being called for three (3) different jobs  
that they have registered and is classified  
for, refuses to accept all three (3) jobs,  
they shall be placed on the bottom of the  
Open Employment List -- unless ill, in  
which case, proof must be furnished. If  
an applicant quits their employment  
without complying with the provisions of  
Sub-paragraph (14) relating to the giving  
of three (3) days’ notice, the Employer  
may notify the Union and the applicant  
shall not be eligible for registration on  
the Open Employment List for a period of  
fifteen (15) days. The Employer shall  
make out a termination slip for employ-  
ees discharged for cause. The slip shall  
state the reason for discharge and one  
copy shall be furnished to the Union.  
A Separate Apprentice List shall be  
established and maintained for regis-  
tered apprentices, and apprentices shall  
be referred for employment in the order  
in which their names appear on such  
lists. Requests by Employers for partic-  
ular registered apprentices or persons  
who will become employed as registered  
9  
(8)  
apprentices shall be honored without  
regard to the requested applicant's place  
on such apprentice list,  
There shall be created a Joint Hiring  
Committee composed of three (3) persons  
appointed by the Associated General  
Contractors of Minnesota, and three (3)  
persons appointed by the Union. The  
function of the Joint Hiring Committee  
shall be to supervise the operation of the  
employment referral system established  
in accordance with this Article. The  
Joint Hiring Committee, and the individ-  
ual members thereof, shall have the  
power, but not the duty:  
(a}to establish, revise and enforce rules  
and regulations for the operation of  
the employment referral plan;  
(b)to inquire into and the  
operation of the employment and  
referral plan; and  
(c)to hear and determine any and all  
grievances arising out of the opera-  
tions of the employment referral plan.  
Any applicant registered on the Open  
Employment List, any apprentice reg-  
istered on the Apprentice List, and  
any applicant for registration on  
either list shall have the nght to  
appeal to the Joint Hiring Committee  
any dispute or grievance arising out  
of the operation of the employment  
referral plan. A grievance may also  
be initiated by a member of the Joint  
Hinng Committee.  
(If the Joint Hiring Committee is  
unable to reach a decision over a griev-  
1d  
ance within ten (10) days after the  
grievance is referred to the Joint  
Hiring Committee, the grievance ghall  
he submitted to a Neutral Arbitrator  
selected by the Joint Hiring  
Committee. If fifteen (15) days have  
elapsed since the dispute was referred  
to the Joint Hiring Committee, and the  
Joint Hiring Committee has not  
reached a decision on the grievance, or  
on the identity of a Neutral Arbitrator,  
any member of the Joint Hiring  
Committee may apply to the  
Minnesota State Bureau of Mediation  
Services for the appointment of a  
Neutral Arbitrator. The authority of  
the Neutral Arbitrator shall! be limited  
to the interpretation and application of  
the provisions of this Article. Al) deci-  
sions of the Joint Hiring Committee or  
the Neutral Arbitrator shal! be final  
and binding on all parties, including  
the apprentices or applicants involved.  
(9) The Employers and the Union mutually  
agree to post in places where notices to  
employees and applicants for employ-  
ment are customarily posted, al] provi-  
sions of this Agreement relating to the  
hiring of applicants and all mules and  
regulations issued by the Joint Hiring  
Committee in connection therewith.  
(10) The Employers and the Union mutually  
agree that the provisions of this  
shali not be applicable to the employ-  
ment of supervisory employees.  
(11) For purposes of this Article, the word  
"Employer" shalt be deemed to include joint  
ventures and affiliated business entities,  
1i  
(12) For the of placement on the  
Open Employment List, and  
business representatives of the Union  
and supervisory personnel who have  
worked previously in the State of  
Minnesota, in one or more categories of  
emplayment covered by this Agreement  
shal) be deemed to have been employed  
in said for the duration of  
their employment as an officer, business  
representative or supervisor.  
(13} In order to meet Federal, State or other  
governmental requirements ar regula-  
lions relative to Equal Employment  
Opportunity and Affirmative Action, con-  
tractors may hire from any source if the  
Union cannct supply. There shall be no  
discrimination against any Employee or  
applicant because of affiliation or non-  
alfiliation with the Unions, race, color,  
creed, politica! or religious beliefs.  
the Employer needs people to  
satisty Equal Employment  
Opportunity or Affirmative Action  
obligations, they shall give the Union  
equal opportunity with all other  
sources to provide appli-  
cants. The Employer haa the right to  
seject prospective Employees from all  
applicants referred to them,  
{b) In order to mect Federel, State or other  
government requirements or regula-  
tions, contractors may hire from any  
source, if the Linion cannot supply.  
(14) of Desire to Quit. All  
Operators and Engineers desiring to quit  
their jobs shall notify their Employer and  
12  
the representative of the Local and remain  
on the job three (3) days unless relieved.  
The Employer shall be under no obligation  
to re-employ in the future any Engineer  
who quits without a three-day notice.  
(15) This addendum shall become effective  
January 1, 1987.  
### ARTICLE 7 - INSURANCE AND TAXES  
7.01 The Employer agrees to carry any and al]  
insurance and pay al] applicable taxes as required  
by applicable State and Federal law.  
7.02 The Employer further agrees to pay the State  
Workers Compensation and into the State  
Unemployment Compensation Fund such amounts  
as are due from and after the date Employees from  
these Unions are employed on the job.  
### ARTICLE 8 - CONFLICTING AGREEMENTS  
8.01 The Employers agree not ta enter into any  
labor agreements covering construction jobs exclu-  
sive of maintenance and repair shops, with their  
Employees on whose behalf any of the Unions  
have been granted recognition hereunder individ-  
ually or collectively which in any way conflicts  
with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.  
8.02 In the event the Unions signatory hereto  
enter into any agreement with any individual  
Employer or group of Employers competing in the  
highway and heavy constnuiction of employment  
more favorable to said Employer than herein pro-  
vided, these more favorable terms and conditions  
may, at the option of the Employers signatory here-  
to, be implemented as a part of this contract, pro-  
vided the AGC-Basic Trades Liaison Committee  
has first met and studied the evidence and is con-  
13  
vinced the Union has, in fact, given better condi-  
tions or wages to the other party. In the event the  
AGC-Basic Trades Liatson Committee deadlocks,  
the arbitration procedure in the grievance article  
will be followed to reach a final decision.  
### ARTICLE 9 - VIOLATIONS OF  
### AGREEMENTS  
9.01 In the event the Employer deliberately vio-  
lates the provisions of this Agreement relating to  
wages, hours of work, or overtime differentials,  
and vacations, any back pay owed to the Employee  
because of such violation shall be paid by the  
Employer at the rate of two (2) times the standard  
and overtime rate.  
9.02 Reasonable evidence of clerical error or han-  
est mistake in interpretation of this Agreement  
shal] exempt the Employer from the double pena)-  
ty provisions. In such a case the Employer shall be  
required to pay only the actual amount of back pay  
involved, at the standard straight time and/or  
overtime rate,  
9.03 When there ia evidence of collusion between  
the Employer and Employee to violate the  
Agreement, any back pay collected shall be made  
payable to the Employee, and shall be deposited  
with the Union, if the Board of Arbitration so orders.  
9.04 Determination of violation to this Agreement  
as set forth in 9.01, 9.02, 9.03 above shall be deter-  
mined in aceordance with the “Settlement of  
Disputes’ Article of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 10 - DISCHARGE  
10.01 The Employers may discharge any  
Employee whose work or behavior, ia unsatisfacto-  
ry or who fails to observe the safety precautions or  
i4  
other rules and regulations preseribed by the  
Employer or any governmental agency. No  
Employee shall be discharged for refusing to work  
under unsafe conditions.  
### ARTICLE 11 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
11.01 Any controversy over the interpretation of  
or adherence to the terms of this Agrecment shall  
first be attempted to be resolved between the  
Union and the Employer, Any controversy or  
grievance shall be deemed to be waived unless  
submitted in writing within ten (10) working days  
after the first occurrence of the event or knowledge  
of the condition giving rise to the grievance.  
11.02 If a satisfactory settlement cannot be  
reached within five (5) working days the matter  
may be brought to the AGC-Basic Trades Disputes  
Board, if both parties agree in writing. In such  
case, the grieving party shali submit a written  
statement of the claim and facts of the matter to  
other parties including the Employer, and the  
Union (The rules of the Disputes Board shall be  
those already adopted by the Joint Committee).  
11.03 Both parties must sign Agreement to bring  
matter to Disputes Board. Both parties must sign  
the document binding them to Board decision. If  
either party does not attend meeting after signing  
above and being notified of the meeting date and  
time, a decision wil] be rendered though they are  
not present.  
11.04 Decisions of the Disputes Board will be  
drafted at the conclusion of the meeting, signed by  
members of the Board, and distributed to both par-  
ties at that time.  
11.05 The Disputes Board is ta be made up of  
equal numbers af Management and Labor repre-  
15  
sentatives, who will meet regularly to settle any  
disputes, than Jurisdictional disputes) to  
avoid work stoppages, or other problems affecting  
productivity. This Board shall have no pewer to  
add to, delete, or modify, any of the terms or provi-  
sions of this Agreement, All decisions of the  
Disputes Board shall be final and binding on the  
parties.  
11.06 If either party, after signing above docu-  
ments, refuses to abide by the decision of the  
Disputes Board, economic action may be taken by  
the other party.  
11.07 Should the Disputes Board, as  
be unable to reach a decision on the matter before  
it, or because of a deadlock (lack of majority) or if  
either party refuses to use the Joint Disputes  
Board then the matter may be referred to a Board  
of Arbitration that shalt operate in the following  
manner: The Union shall appoint an Arbitrator  
and the Employer shall appoint an Arbitrator  
within ten working days and the two  
thus aclected shall appoint a Neutral  
Chairman. In the event of the failure of the  
Arbitratera selected by the partics to agree on a  
Neutral Chairman within ten (10) working days  
after the dispute is referred to arbitration, they  
shall ask the Federal Mediation and Conciliation  
Service for a list of five (5) names. Within five {5}  
days after receipt of such list, the parties shall  
determine by Jot the order of climination and  
thereafter each shall in the order alternately elim-  
inate one name from the list until only one name  
remains and the final name shall be selected as  
the Neutral Chairman. The Neutral Chairman  
thus selected shall set the time and place for hear-  
ings, Which shal] begin no later than ten (10) work-  
ing days after his/her selection, with the final deci-  
sion ta be handed down in not more than ten (10)  
16  
working days after the last hearing is held. The  
time may be extended by mutual agreement  
between the parties.  
11.08 The decision of the Arbitrators shall be final  
and binding on signatories to this Agreement who  
are parties to the dispute; provided, however, that  
the Arbitrators shall have no pewer to add to,  
delete, or modify any provisions of this Agreement.  
11.09 The Employer will pay all expenses of his  
Arbitrater and the Union will pay all expenses of  
its and the Employer and the Union  
shall share equaily all fees and expenses of the  
Neutral Chairman.  
11.10 All work and other conditions prevailing  
immediately prior to the raising of the question to  
be decided under this Article shall remain  
unchanged until final decision has been reached  
hereunder.  
### ARTICLE 12 - MANAGEMENT  
12.01 The Union recognizes the right of the  
Employer to retatn or to reduce or increase the  
number of Employees, and it is further understood  
that the Employer reserves the right to manage its  
job or business, Just so long as exercising such  
rights does not viclate any provisions of this  
Agreement.  
12.02 The Employee shall use any tools, equip-  
ment, machinery, materials, products or proce-  
dures of their craft required by the Employer.  
### ARTICLE 13 - SAFETY  
13.01 Accident and injury free operation shall be  
the goa! of all Employers and Employees. To this  
end, the Employer and the Employee will, to the  
best of their ability abide by and live up to the  
L?  
requirements of the several State and Federal  
Construction Safety Codes and Regulations.  
13.02 To this end, the Employer shall from time to  
time, issue rules and notices to their Employees  
regarding on the job safety requirements. Any  
Employee violating such rules or notices may be sub-  
ject to action. No Employee may be dis-  
charged for refusing te work under unsafe conditions.  
### ARTICLE 14 - PICKETS, BANNERS ANO  
### STRIKES  
14.01 The Employer shall not require any  
Employee, to go through a primary picket line. It  
shall not be a violation of this Agreement and it  
shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary  
action in the event an Employee decided not to crosa  
a primary picket line, or banner. This provision  
does not apply to watchmen or supervisory person-  
nel, if they go through the picket line to protect life  
or property. This clause shall not apply to a sec-  
ondary picket line and banners and it shall not  
apply to juriadictional picket lines and banners.  
### ARTICLE 15 - STRIKES, LOCKOUTS,  
### WORK INTERFERENCE  
16.01 The Unions and the Employers agree that  
there shall be no strike, lockout, work-stoppage,  
slow-downe, sit-downs, or other concerted interfer-  
ence with the Employer's business or affaira by  
this Union and/or the members thereof, and there  
shall be no strike or lockout during the life of this  
Agreement without first giving AGC or the  
Employer and the Union forty-eight (48) hours  
written notice and sending the dispute through  
procedures established in Article 11,  
### ARTICLE 16 - SUBCONTRACTORS  
16.01 If an Employer subcontracts work to be per-  
formed at the jobsite, the Employer shall require  
the Subcontractor to sign a subcontract agreement  
containing the following provisions:  
The Subcontractor agrees to comply with the pro-  
visions relating to wages, fringe benefits and pre-  
mium pay and on-the-job working conditions for  
the 2005 to 2008 collective bargaining agreements  
in the Highway and Heavy Construction [ndustry  
entered into between the Contractor and the  
Operating Engineers Union for the duration of  
such prime Contractor's or Employer's project.  
16.02 The Agreement of the Subcontractor to sa  
comply shalt apply:  
A. Only to those collective bargaining agree-  
ments which cover classifications of work in  
which the Subcontractor has Employees  
working on the projects; and  
B. Only to work performed on the project.  
16.03 The Employer shall require’ the  
Subcontractor to sign a subcontract agreement  
containing the foregoing provisions only:  
A. With respect to work located in territorial  
areas covered by the terms of the respective  
ullion agreements; and  
B. Where the Subcontractor does not represent  
to the Employer that they have an estab-  
lished building trades collective bargaining  
relationship covering the affected classifica-  
tion of work,  
16.04 Controversy with Subcontractor. In the  
event a Subcontractor is involved in a controversy,  
the Union shall be obligated to bring it te the  
attention of the prime Contractor in an effort to  
to  
settle the controversy before a work-stappage is  
brought about.  
### ARTICLE 17 - UNION REPRESENTATIVES  
### 17.01 Only authonzed Unicn Representatives  
shall have the right to confer with Employees on  
the job. Each and every Union Representative  
shall first contact the job superintendent or fore-  
man, or whoever is in charge of the project before  
conferring with any Employee. At no time shall  
such Union Representative hinder or interfere  
with the progress of the work.  
17.02 It shall be the obligation of the Union  
Representative to adhere to all pertinent safety  
rules of the particular job while on the Employer's  
premises.  
### AATICLE 18 - ROTATION OF EMPLOYEES  
18.01 The Union may not require rotation of any  
Employee during the life of this Agreement, other  
than Apprentices shifted for purposes of training.  
### ARTICLE 19 - PAYROLL RECORDS  
19.01 In case of a dispute arising over hours and  
wages, the Union shall] have the right to examine  
the payroll records of the individual Employees  
covered by this Agreement upan which there is a  
dispute. Prior to the actual examination, a written  
request shall be submitted to the Employer  
involved.  
### ARTICLE 20 - APPLICATION OF WAGE  
### AATES  
20.01 The determining factor in applying differ-  
ent area rates shall be the location within the  
State in which the work is being performed and  
26  
not the home address of the Employee or  
Employer. Pay rates for other crafts with respect  
to areas are irrelevant.  
20.02 When a job is in two wage districts, wages  
shall be the average of the two scales and rural  
working conditions shali prevail.  
### ARTICLE 21 - PAYOAY AND WAGE  
### PAYMENT  
21.01 All regular, full time Employees covered by  
this Agreement shall be paid in full each week.  
Not more than seven (7) days shall be held back  
including payday.  
21,02 Wages shall be paid at or before the end of  
the shift of the designated payday. Employers may  
utilize alternative forms of pay check distribution  
such as mailing or by direct deposit upon mutual  
agreement with each Employee.  
21.08 When an Employee is laid off, or discharged  
they shali receive all money due them in cash or  
negotiable check within twenty-four (24) hours. If  
the Employee does not appear to collect their  
check, the Employer will immediately mail their  
check to the Employee's last known address.  
21.04 An Employee who quits will be paid any  
wages due them at the next payday.  
21.05 The Employer agrees to provide the follow-  
ng information on Employee's check stub: Hours,  
date, regular pay, overtime pay, pross pay, deduc-  
1ons and net pay.  
21.06 Wage rate classifications in this contract  
stablishes only a rate for Employees hired by  
Management and in no way relates to manning of  
  
Zl  
### AATICLE 22 - FRINGE BENEFITS  
22.01 The Employer agrees to contribute every  
month, not later than the 15th of the following  
month, hereinafter called the “due date", such sums  
for Pension, Health and Welfare, Vacation,  
Apprenticeship and Promotion funds as they may  
be established, an amount for each hour worked by  
all Employees covered by this Agreement. The  
fund's Trustees shall equally represent the Union  
and the Employer. The terms of the trust agree-  
ments establishing those funds are hereby incorpo-  
rated as a part hereof.  
A. Contributions to be paid on one check with all  
other fringes to an administrative agency  
with a local office.  
B. Reporting forms and instructions standard-  
ized with other basic trades.  
C. Contributions paid on an hourly basis on all  
hours worked and not to be pyramided  
Example: if hourly wage is $8.00 plus 10¢  
fringe, time and one-half overtime rate equals  
$12.00 plus 10¢ fringe. On shift work, contri  
butions paid on the same proportionate  
hourly basis a8 hours worked to hours paid.  
D, Any Insurance Carrier, Administrator,  
Consultant, Actuary, Fiduciary Agent which  
may be used shal] be selected by competitive  
bidding upon invitation by Trustees.  
E. There shal] be no requirement that Employees  
sent to work outside the scope of this Agreement  
be paid fringes, nor shall the Employer be  
required to duplicate fringe contributions.  
F. (1) An Employer shall be considered “delin-  
quent” for a particular work month if its  
required report and payment for that  
month are not postmarked on or before  
22  
(2)  
(3)  
the 15th day of the following month (the  
“due date”), irrespective of whether such  
delinquency is willful or otherwise.  
Employer becomes delinquent for a  
particular work month (as provided in  
(1) above), they shall be required to pay,  
as liquidated damages and not as a  
penalty, an amount equal to 15% of the  
payment otherwise due for such work  
month, it being understood and acknowl}.  
edged by the parties that actual damages  
are extremely difficult or impossible to  
ascertain and that the amount so fixed  
as liquidated damages is reasonable.  
If an Employer becomes delinquent for a  
particular work month {as provided in  
(1) above), as to any or all of the Trust  
Funds, and if the report and the full pay-  
ment due for such work month {includ-  
ing liquidated damages} are not post-  
marked in the effice of the Fund  
Administrator on or before the 15th day  
of the month following the applicable due  
date, such Employer shall (in addition to  
paying the full amount due) be required  
to pest in the office of the Fund  
Administrator a cash or surety bond in  
form satisfactory to the Trustees and in  
the face amount of $25,000 which shall  
cover al] of the Trust Funds and assure  
payment of all sums called for by this  
Agreement in the event of the  
Employer's subsequent delinquency as to  
any and all of the Trust Funds, and  
which shall be kept in force and main-  
tained in the full face amount for a peri-  
od of not less than 12 consecutive calen-  
dar months during which no further  
23  
(4)  
(5)  
(6)  
deJinquency has occurred on the part of  
such Employer. The Union shall refuse  
t supply workers and shall prohibit  
Employees covered by this Agreement  
from working for any such delinquent  
Employer who fails or refuses to provide  
or maintain such bond,  
Illustration of clauses (1), (2) and (3): If  
an Employer's report and payment for  
the January work month have not been  
-postmarked before February 16, such  
Contracter becomes delinquent at that  
point and must pay the full amount due,  
plus 15%. If the report and the full  
amount for January {including the 15%  
liquidated damages amount} are not  
postmarked before March 16, the  
Employer must then post a $25,000 bond  
in addition to reporting and paying the  
full amount due.  
The delinquent Employer shall alse be  
required to pay all costa of collection actu-  
ally ineurred by the Trust Funds, includ-  
ing all attorney fees, service fees, filing  
fees, court reparter fees, and al) other  
fees, costs and disbursements incurred by  
or on behalf of the Trust Funds in collect-  
ing the amount due. Trustees at their  
discretion may reimburse (from the fund)  
the Unions for picketing and bannering  
expense actually incurred by the Union  
in collecting amounts due the Trust  
Funds, which expenses shall be deemed  
to be costs of collection incurred on behalf  
of the Trust Funds.  
Each Employer who is required to make  
payments te the Trust Funds shall  
promptly furnish to the Trustees and the  
24  
(7)  
Unions, or their authorized agents, on  
demand, 21] necessary employment and  
payroll records relating to its Employees  
covered by this Agreement, including any  
other relevant information that may be  
required in connection with the adminis-  
tration of the Trust Funds. The Trustees  
and the Unions or their authorized agents,  
may examine such employment, or payroll  
records whenever such examination is  
deemed necessary by the Trustees and the  
Unions, or their authorized agents in con-  
nection with the proper administration of  
the Trust Funds. If any Employer fails or  
refuses to furnish its payrall records to the  
Trustees and the Unions, or their autho-  
rized agents upon demand or refuses to  
afford the Trustees, or their authorized  
agents reasonable opportunity to examine  
the same in accordance with standard  
auditing procedures, the Trustees and the  
may enforce such rights by legal  
action, in which eyent al] attorney fees,  
service fees, filing fees, court reporter fees  
and other legal costs and disbursements,  
as well as the auditing fees and costs  
incurred in conducting such audit, shat] be  
paid by such Employer on direction of the  
Trustees, The Unions shall also have the  
right to take economic action to enforce  
such rights on behalf of the Unions and  
the Trustees, and the Trust Funds shall  
reimburse the Unions for picketing and  
bannering expenses actually incurred in  
enforcing such rights,  
Notwithstanding the provisions of  
Article 11 Settlement of Disputes, the  
failure, refusal or neglect of an Employer  
25  
to report and to pay sums due the Trust  
Funds or otherwise to comply with the  
terms and provisions of this Article shall  
not be subject to arbitration.  
(8) The parties to this Agreement acknowl-  
edge that the provisions of this  
Agreement establishing rates of pay,  
wages, all hours of employment and other  
terms and conditions of employment,  
including fringe benefits, apply to  
Employees employed in job elassifica-  
ttons within the jurisdiction of the  
Unions, regardless of whether or not such  
Employees are members of the Union.  
G, Any and all fringe contribution rates shall be  
open fer adjustment wpon each anniversary  
date of the effective date of this Contract, and  
shall be within the discretion of the Trustees.  
The Trustees shall provide thirty (30) days  
written notice to the Union and to the Company  
of any adjustment and such adjustment shall  
operate to adjust wages in a like amount.  
H. Health and Welfare and Pensian to be sent, to  
Wilson-McShane Corp., 3001 Metro Drive,  
Suite 500, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55425.  
### ARTICLE 23 - SAVING CLAUSE  
23.01 This Agreement is intended to be in confor-  
mity with all applicable and valid State and  
Federal laws, rules and regulatiens.  
23.02 Any conflict between the provisions of this  
Agreement and the terms of any such laws and reg-  
shall cause the provisions of this Agreement  
so in conflict to be superseded or annulled but shall  
not supersede or annul the terms and provisions of  
this Agreement which are not 30 in conflict.  
26  
### ARTICLE 24 - ENTIRE UNDERSTANDING  
24.01 This Agreement covers the entire under-  
standing between the parties hereto, with the  
exception of the Letter of Understanding relating  
to Picket Lines, which was signed by the parties on  
July 2, 1975.  
### ARTICLE 25 - OURATION  
25.01 All terms of this Agreement shall take effect  
on May 1, 2005.  
25.02 This Agreement shall remain in full force  
and effect through April 30, 2008.  
25.03 Any party has the right to terminate or  
amend this Agreement by piving notice to the  
other party, sixty (60) days before the expiration of  
this Agreement. Failure to give such notice shall  
cause this Apreement to be renewed automatically  
for a further period of twelve (12) months.  
25.04 In the event such written notice is given  
and a new Agreement is not signed before the expi-  
ration of this Agreement, then this Agreement  
shall continue in force until a new Agreement is  
signed, or until negotiations are formally broken  
off, or until a strike or lockout occurs.  
### SUPPLEMENTS  
### SCHEDULE 1 - NEW CLASSIFICATIONS  
$1.01 Any question relative to the classification of  
a worker will be settled by the Employer and the  
Unicn.  
$1.02 The Union and AGC shall determine prop-  
er classification and wage rates for any new type of  
equipment not presently covered by the classifica-  
tions contained in this Agreement tn accordance  
27  
with the following procedures:  
A.  
B,  
Union shall submit a written request to AGC  
for determinations.  
AGC shail meet with Union within 14 days of  
receipt of request.  
AGC and Union will determine:  
1. <A descriptive classification title; and  
2. That the skill required for the operation  
of a new machine is most comparable to  
the skil) required for the operation of one  
of the following key classifications;  
|] - 6. The wage rate shall  
then be the current rate paid for said key  
classification.  
In the event mutual agreement cannot be  
reached in (c) above, the matter shall be  
referred to arbitration under the provisions of  
Article 11 Settlement of Disputes.  
Determination referred to in (c) above shall be  
the sole issue decided in arbitration.  
28  
### SCHEDULE 2 - CLASSIFICATIONS, WAGES  
### AND FRINGES  
Group 1  
All Truck and Crawler Cranes 50 tons and  
over doing pile driving, sheeting work, cais-  
son work, rotary drilling and boring.  
Group 2  
Helicopter Pilot  
Concrete Pump Operator  
*** Crane Operator with over 135° Boom,  
excluding jib  
Dragline, Crawler, Hydraulic Backhoe and/or  
other similar equipment with shovel-type  
controls, 3 cubic yards and over Mfg. rated  
capacity  
Grader or Motor Patrol, Finishing earthwork  
and bituminous  
Pile Driving  
Tugboat Operator - i@0 hp and over when  
license required  
Group 3  
Asphait Bituminous Stabilizer Plant  
Operator  
Cableway Operator  
Concrete Mixer, Stationary Plant over 34E  
Derrick (Guy or Stiffleg) (power) (skids or  
stationary)  
Diver  
Dragline, Crawler, Hydraulic Backhoe and/or  
other similar equipment with shovel-type con-  
trols, up to 3 cubic yards Mfg. rated capacity  
Dredge Operator or Engineers, Dredge  
Operator (power) and Engineer  
29  
   
" WAGE ZONE MAP - See Pages  
wage rates and classifications.  
Western zone  
Eastern Metropolitan zone  
Remainder of Eastern zone  
30  
Sethe  
     
### NYLINIDPd OU Lan  
thru 45 for  
31  
Front End Loader Operator, 6 cu, yds. and  
over  
Locomotive Crane Operator  
Master Mechanic  
Mechanic or Welder  
Mixer (Paving) Concrete Paving Operator,  
Road  
Mole Operator, including power supply  
Mucking Machine, including mucking opera-  
tions, Conway or aimilar type  
Refrigeration Plant Engineer  
Tandem Scraper  
Tractor Operator - Boom type  
Truck Crane Operator - Crawler Crane  
Tugboat Operator — 100 hp and over  
Group 4  
Air Track Rock Drill  
Articulated Hauler Terex, Caterpillar or  
similar type  
Automatic Road Machine Operator (CMI or  
similar)  
Backfiller Operator  
Bituminous Paver Screed Operator  
Bituminous Spreader & Finishing Operator  
(power)  
Bituminous Roller Operator, 8 Tons and over  
Boom Truck Operator (power operated boom)  
Brokk or R.T:C. 750 remote control or simi-  
lar types with al] attachments  
Cat and Scraper  
Cat Tractors with Rock Wagons or similar  
types  
32  
Challenger 75-D or 85-D when pulling  
scraper or bulldozer  
Chip Harvester & Tree Cutter over 150 HP  
Concrete Batch Plant Operator  
Concrete Distributor & Spreader Operator  
Finishing Machine  
Concrete Mixer Operator on jobsite over 145  
Concrete Mobile Operator  
Crushing Plant Operator (gravel&stone) or  
Gravel Wshg, Crshg and Scrng Piant Oper.  
Curb Machine Operator  
Directiona] Boring Machine, all types  
Dope Machine (pipeline)  
Drill Rigs, Heavy Rotary or Churn or Cable  
Drill  
Dual Tractor Operator  
Elevating Grader Operator  
Engineer in charge of plant requiring lst  
Class License  
Fork Lift or Straddle Carrier Operator  
Fork Lift or Lumber Stacker (for construc-  
tion jobsite}  
Front End Loader Operator, over 1 cu. yd.  
GPS Operator remote operating of equip-  
ment (refer to letter of understanding)  
Grader Operator (Motor Patrol)  
Hoist Engineer (power)  
Hydraulic Tree Planter  
Launcherman (Tankerman or Pilot License)  
Lead Greaser  
Locomotive, all types  
Milling, Grinding and Planing Machine  
Operator  
33  
Multiple Machines, such as Air Compresszore,  
Welding Machines, Generators, Pumps  
Pavement Breaker or Tamping Machine  
Operator (power driven} Mighty Mite or sim-  
ilar type  
Payhauler or similar type  
Pickup Sweeper, 1 cu. yd. and over Hopper  
capacity  
Pipeline Wrapping, Cleaning or Bending  
Machine Operator  
Power Plant Engineer, 100 K.W.H. and over  
Power Actuated Horizonta] Boring Machine,  
over 6" Opcrator  
Pugmill Operator  
Pumpcrete Operator  
Rubber-Tired Farm Tractor, Backhoe  
Attachment  
Scraper Operator, up to 32 cubic yards  
Scraper Operator - Struck capacity 32 cu.  
yds and over  
Self-Propeiled Traveling Soil Stabilizer  
Skid Steer Loader, over one cubic yard  
with backhoe attachment  
Slip Form Operator (power driven) (paving)  
Tie Tamper & Ballast Machine Operator  
Tractor Operator, Bulldozer  
Tractor Operator, over 50 HP with power  
take-off  
Trenching Machine Operator all utilities,  
excludes walk behind trencher  
Tub Grinder - Morbark or similar type  
Wel] Point Installation, Dismantling or  
Repair Mechanic on day shift, one man in  
charge  
34  
Group 5  
Air Compressor Operator 600 CFM or over  
Bituminous Roller Operator under 8 Tons  
Bituminous Rubber Fired Roiler  
Longitudinal Float Operator, Joint  
Machine Operator and Spray Operator  
Concrete Saw (multiple blade)  
(power operated)  
Form Trench Digger (power)  
Front End Loader Operator, up to and includ-  
ing 1 cu. yd.  
Gunite Operator Gunall  
Hydraulic Log Splitter  
Loader Operator (Barber Greene or similar  
type)  
Post Hole Driving Machine, Post Hole Augar  
Power Actuated Augars and Boring Machine  
Operator  
Power Actuated Jacks Operator  
Pump Operator  
Self-Propelled Chip Spreader (Flaherty or  
similar}  
Sheep Foot Compactor with Blade - 200 HP  
and over  
Shouldering Machine Operator (power) Apsco  
or similar type including self-propelled  
sand & chip spreader  
Skid Steer Operator up to 1 cu. yd.  
Stump Chipper and Tree Chipper Operator  
Tractor Operator, BulJdozer, 50 HP or less  
Tree Farmer (a machine)  
Vibrating Extractor  
35  
Group 6  
Challenger 75-D or 85-D when pulling disk or  
roiler  
Conveyor Operator  
Crane Operator Apprentice  
Dredge Deck Hand  
Group 6 (continued)  
Fireman or Tank Car Heater Operator  
Gravel Screening Plant Operator (portable  
not crushing or washing) —  
Greaser (Truck or Tractor)  
Leverman  
Mechanic Helper  
Mechanic, Space Heater (temporary heat)  
Oiler (Power Shovel, Crane, Dragline)  
Power Sweeper Operator  
Rollers on gravel compaction  
Self-Propelled Vibrating Packer Operator (35  
HP and aver)  
Sheep Foot Rollers  
Tractor Operator Wheel Type (over 50 HP)  
Crane Operators in Group 1 with a CCO certificate will  
receive a 50¢ per hour premium. All other crane operators  
with a CCO certificate will move to Group 2 with a 50¢ per  
hour premium, Crone gporeters without o CCO certificate  
will be paid Group 2 or d, whichever is applicable.  
#** Crane Operator with aver 135’ Boom, excluding jih, ahall  
receive 25¢ per haur premium aver the classification one  
acale, 50¢ premium over 200° Boom, excluding jib.  
‘ere 25¢ premium on above clasavications on work per-  
formed in underground 60¢ premium on above clns-  
sifiealion’ on work performed in underground tennel under  
air pressure.  
36  
### UNDERGROUND WORK  
$2.01 Employees working in tunnels, shafts, etc.  
shall be paid an additional twenty-five cents (25¢)  
per hour over the regular negotiated wage rate.  
Employees working under (air pressure) shall  
receive fifty cents (50¢) per hour over the regular  
negotiated wage rate. Underground and air pres-  
sure pay differential shall apply for the full shift  
and all overtime to any Employee performing work  
underground or under air pressure.  
$2.02 All shifts shall start and end above ground,  
or Employees engaged in work described in this  
Section shall be paid an additiona] one-half (1/2)  
hour pay as travel pay at the overtime rate from 0  
to 10,500 ft., one (1) hour travel pay for over 10,500  
ft. to 21,000 ft., one and one-half{1 1/2) hours trav-  
e] pay for over 21,000 ft. to 31,500 ft. Travel dis-  
tance shall be measured from point of entry of the  
Employee. Employee must report before their nor-  
mal] starting time as required by the time  
listed herein. At the end of the shift, Employees  
must be out of the shaft at the normal quitting  
time or be paid overtime pursuant to the terms of  
this Agreement unless reason for not being out of  
the shaft is an act or fault of the Employee.  
### HAZARDOUS WASTE  
$2.03 Operators working on hazardous waste pro-  
jects for which a site specific safety plan (Site  
Safety Plan) has been prepared jn accordance with  
the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.120 or 1926.65,  
as applicable, or an operator working on an emer-  
gency response clean-up operation or participating  
in site assessment shall be paid for al] reasonable  
time spent on personal preparation and cleanup —  
i.e, suiting up, persona] decontamination, etc.,  
required by the Site Safety Plan.  
37  
   
$2.04 If the Site Safety Plan requires Employees  
to wear Level C or higher personal protection  
equipment (PPE), such Employees shall be  
allowed to take paid personal relief breaks as nec-  
essary to regulate body core temperature as  
required by O.S.H.A. regulations. Personal! relief  
breaks will be taken outside the Exclusion Zone.  
The Emplayer wilt determine the times during the  
shift when relief breaks will be taken. Relief  
breaks will not be taken by all  
Employees, unless so directed by the Employer.  
$2.06 The Union agrees that the amount of time  
reasonably required for personal preparation and  
clean-up and the number and tength of personal  
relief breaks to be taken dunng a shift shall be  
determined by the Employer. The Union acknowl-  
edges that personal relicf breaks are granted solely  
us necessary to protect the health and safety of  
Employees and agrees that they will not be abused.  
$2.06 If the Site Safety Plan requires Employees  
to wear Level C or higher PPE, they will be paid  
the premiums over the wage rates nar-  
mally applicable to their classifications:  
### PPE REQUIRED WAGE PREMIUM  
Level A $1.25 per hour  
Level B $0.90 per hour  
Level € $0.60 per hour  
Level D $0.50 per hour  
$2.07 When an Operator must carry the Hazmat  
certification card ta perform the work and does not  
need full personal protection cquipment as  
described in OSHA regulation, Appendix B to  
1926.65, the Operators will get paid premium only  
when working in Hot Zones. On project let as  
Hazmat projects, the appropriate level of pay will  
be paid.  
38  
$2.08 An Employee who elects to wear PPE at the  
level higher than required by the Site Safety Plan  
will be paid only for the level of PPE actually  
required by the Site Safety Plan.  
$2.09 Levels of PPE are defined in Appendix B to  
29 CFR 1910.120 or 1926.65, as applicable.  
Worker Readiness Program: The Union and  
Employers recognize the value of a skilled work-  
force. To this end, Labor and Management agree  
as follows: During the term of this Agreement, all  
workers covered by this Agreement shall possess  
an OSHA 10 completion card, It is agreed that all  
Local 49 members receive eight (8) hours per year  
of training during the term of this agreement.  
Scheduling of these classes shal! be the shared  
of the Employer, the Union and the  
Joint Training Program. All classes eligible under  
this section shall be approved by the Training  
Program Director.  
39  
### WAGES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2005  
### EASTERN METROPOLITAN ZONE (See  
Wage District Map)  
1-LU2% of  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN:  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES HW PENSION TICESHIP TOTALS  
$28.77 $555 $5.80 $35 $40.47  
27.77 5 5.80 3D 39.47  
27.22 355 5.80 30 38.92  
* 55 5.80 35 38.62  
7388 555 5280 35 35.58  
22670 S55 8.80 35 94,37  
oo om Ge he  
nO  
  
### SS  
### REMAINDER OF EASTERN ZONE (See  
Wace District Map)  
1-1/2% of  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN-  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES WW PENSION TICESHIP TOTALS  
$2631 ‘* $555 $5.80 $35 $3801  
25.51 ** 555 5.80 30 37.01  
24.66 * 555 5.80 35 36.56  
* §€§65.65 5.80 39 36.26  
2199 “* 555 5.80 35 34,69  
2112 ** 6S BD 35 (32.82  
In Zone 2 (which is the Remainder of Eastern  
Zone) and Zone 3 (which is the Western Zone}  
where Pre-D's are low or non-existent, the per-  
centage rate shall be 90% of the Base Rate, plus  
total Fringe Package.  
Ch On OS nD  
te  
ee  
on  
a  
in Zones 2 and 3, any Heavy Industrial Sites are  
exempt from the percentage reduction for projects  
with no Pre-D or low Pre-D wages, except when it  
ig mutually agreed between the Union and the  
Employers that such is neceasary.  
In Zones 2 and 3 where percentages are used, any  
project let by the Minnesota Department of  
40  
Transportation, or any letting agency, with higher  
pre-determined wage rates and fringe benefits  
than those set forth, the higher rates and benefits  
shall he apphed.  
WESTERN ZONE (See Wage District Map)  
of  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN:  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES H/W PENSION TICESHIP TOTALS  
1 $2310 * $5.55 $580 $35 $9480  
2 22.140 * 555 5.80 35 33,80  
3 21.17 * 555 §.80 OO 32.87  
4 208 * 655 5.80 35 82.56  
915 -* 5655 5.80 35 (30.85  
6 55“ §55 5.80 35 30,25  
In Zone 2 {which ts the Remainder of Eastern  
Zone) and Zane 3 (which is the Western Zone)  
where Pre-D's are low or non-existent, the per-  
centage rate shall be 90% of the Base Rate, plus  
total Frmge Package.  
To deviate from the 90% rule on specific projects in  
the Western Zone, when an Employer calls and  
asks for relief, it will be considered by the Unton,  
but it will not be the Unien's responsibility to noti-  
fy other Union contractors that wage reductions  
were pranted.  
In Zones 2 and 3, any Heavy Industrial Sites are  
exempt from the percentage reduction for projects  
with no Pre-D or low Pre-D wages, except when it  
is mutuaily agreed between the Union and the  
Employers that such reduction 1s necessary.  
in Zones 2 and 3 where percentages are used, any pro-  
ject by the Minnesota Department of  
Transportation, or any letting agency, with higher pre-  
determined wage rates and fringe benefts than those  
set forth, the higher rates and benefits shall be applied.  
4)  
   
### WAGES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2006  
### EASTERN METROPOLITAN ZONE (See  
Wage District Map)  
of  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN.  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES HW PENSION TICESHIP TOTALS  
$2  
+  
$1.55 **To be decided prior to May 1, 2006.  
+4  
  
GO ho Re  
### REMAINDER OF EASTERN ZONE (See  
Wage Disirict Map)  
of  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN.  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES HW TICESHIP TOTALS  
+  
ta  
$1.55 to be decided prior to May 1, 2006.  
+e  
a  
Ge ot OW tS  
in Zone 2 (which is the Remainder of Eastern  
Zone) and Zone 3 (which is the Western Zone)  
where Pre-D's are Jow or non-existent, the per-  
centage rate shall be 90% of the Base Rate, plus  
total Fringe Package.  
In Zones 2 and 3, any Heavy Industrial Sites are  
exempt from the percentage reduction for projects  
with no Pre-D or low Pre-D wages, except when it  
is mutually agreed between the Union and the  
Employers that such reduction is necessary.  
In Zones 2 and 3 where percentages are used, any  
42  
project let by the Minnesota Department of  
Transportation, or any letting agency, with higher  
pre-determined wage rates and fringe benefits  
than those set forth, the higher rates and benefits  
shall be applied.  
WESTERN ZONE (See Wage District Map)  
of  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN.  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES HWW PENSION TICESHIP TOTALS  
1  
Fr  
$1,10 To be decided prior to May 1, 2006.  
3  
4  
5 a3  
6 at  
In Zone 2 (which is the Remainder of Eastern  
Zone} and Zone 3 (which is the Western Zone)  
where Pre-D's are low or non-existent, the per-  
centage rate shall be 90% of the Base Rate, plus  
total Fringe Package.  
To deviate from the 90% rule on specific projects in  
the Western Zone, when an Employer calls and  
asks for relief, it will be considered by the Union,  
but it wil] not be the Union's responsibility to noti-  
fy other Union contractors that wage reductions  
were granted.  
In Zones 2 and 3, any Heavy Industrial Sites are  
exempt from the percentage reduction for projects  
with no Pre-D or low Pre-D wages, except when it  
is mutually agreed between the Union and the  
Employers that such reduction is necessary.  
In Zones 2 and 3 where percentages are used, any  
project let by the Minnesota Department of  
Transportation, or any Jetting agency, with higher  
pre-determined wage rates and fringe benefits  
43  
than those set forth, the higher rates and benefits  
shall be applied.  
### WAGES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2007  
### EASTERN METROPOLITAN ZONE (See  
Wage District Map)  
1-1/2% of  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN-  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES HW PENSION TICESHIP TOTALS  
j +4  
3 sa  
3 = $1.55 be decided prior to May 1, 2007,  
  
6 +  
### REMAINDER OF EASTERN ZONE (See  
Wage District Map)  
1-1/2% af  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN-  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES H/¥ PENSION TICESHIP TOTALS  
l +*  
++  
$1.55 wrt be decided prior to May 1, 2007,  
a  
4  
5 sa  
6 ke  
In Zone 2 (which is the Remainder of Eastern  
Zone) and Zone 3 (which is the Western Zone)  
where Pre-D's are low or non-existent, the per-  
centage rate shall be 90% of the Base Rate, pius  
total Fringe Package.  
In Zones 2 and 3, any Heavy [Industrial Sites are  
exempt from the percentage reduction for projects  
with no Pre-D or low Pre-D wages, except when it  
44  
is Mutually agreed between the Union and the  
Employers that such reduction is necessary.  
In Zones 2 and 3 where percentages are used, any  
project let by the Minnesota Department of  
Transportation, or any letting agency, with higher  
pre-determined wage rates and fringe benefits  
than those set forth, the higher rates and benefits  
shall be applied.  
WESTERN ZONE {See Wage District Map)  
1-1/2% of  
### GROSS WAGES  
### EXCLUDING APPREN-  
### GROUP WAGES FRINGES H/¥ PENSION TICESHIP TOTALS  
+s  
tt  
$1.10 be decided prior to May 1, 2007.  
+¥  
  
Ce Or oe Ce SD  
In Zone 2 (which is the Remainder of Eastern  
Zone} and Zone 3 (which is the Western Zone)  
where Pre-D's are low or non-existent, the per-  
centage rate shall be 30% of the Base Rate, plus  
total Fringe Package.  
To deviate from the 90% rule on specific projects in  
the Western Zone, when an Employer calls and  
asks for relief, it will be considered by the Union,  
but it will not be the Unian’s responsibility to noti-  
fy other Union contractors that wage reductions  
were granted.  
In Zones 2 and 3, any Heavy Industria] Sites are  
exernpt from the percentage reduction for projects  
with no Pre-D or low Pre-D wages, except when it  
is mutually agreed between the Union and the  
Employers that such reduction is necessary.  
45  
In Zones 2 and 3 where percentages are used, any  
project let by the Minnesota Department of  
Transportation, or any letting agency, with higher  
pre-determined wage rates and fringe benefits  
than those set forth, the higher rates and benefits  
shall be applied.  
### A DOLLAR ($1.00) PER HOUR JNCREASE  
### SHALL BECOME EPFECTIVE MAY 1, 2008 IF A  
### HIGHER RATE HAS NOT BEEN NEGOTIATED  
### BETWEEN THE UNION AND THE AGC, SAID  
### INCREASE SHALL BE SUBJECT TO THE  
### FRINGE BENEFIT FUND ALLOCATIONS.  
### ADMINISTRATIVE DUES  
52.08 During the term of this Agreement, in  
accordance with the terms of an individual and  
voluntary written authorization for checkoff of  
administrative dues, the Contractor shal) deduct  
each week from the wages of al] Employees cov-  
ered by this Agreement 1 1/2 % of the Gross Wage  
as administrative dues excluding fringes.  
$2.09 All money collected by the Employer as pro-  
vided herein shall be remitted to Loca] 49's Office  
not later than the (15th) day of the month  
following the month in which deductions were  
made. The Union accepts full responsibility for the  
disposition of the funds so deducted, once they  
have been remitted to Local 49's office, The Union  
shall be responsible for obtaining al) individual  
signed authorizations,  
### SCHEDULE 3 - HOURS, SHIFTS,  
### OVERTIME, SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS  
$3.01 Ali work performed on Saturdays must be  
paid at 1 1/2 times the hourly rate in the seven (7)  
county metro area and the city limits of Duluth. If  
46  
an Empleyee misses 2 day on their own accord,  
Saturday shall not be an overtime day.  
$3.02 In the counties of Anoka, Carver, Dakota,  
Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott and Washington and that  
part of Sherburne County south of the northern  
boundary of T. 34-N and east of the western bound-  
ary of R. 27-W, and that part of Wright County  
east of the western right of way of Minnesota  
Highway 25; that part of Chisage County south of  
the northern boundary of T. 34-N and that part of  
St. Louis County within the city limits of Duluth,  
overtime shall be paid at the rate of ane and one-  
. half (1 1/2) times the regular hourly rate after  
forty (40) hours in one week, Where two shifts are  
worked, each shift shal) consist of eight (8) hours  
work and all Employees who work such shifts  
shall receive eight (8) hours pay.  
$3.03 In the remainder of the State, eight (8)  
hours shall constitute a work day, forty (40) hours  
shall constitute a work week. All time worked in  
excess of forty (40) hours in any week shall be paid  
at one and one-half {1 1/2) times the reguiar hourly  
rate.  
$3.04 It is understood that there shall be no pyra-  
miding of overtime and Employees shall not be  
paid daily and weekly overtime.  
### SHIFTS  
$3.05 Where not more than two (2) shifts are  
worked, the wages paid shall be based on hours  
worked, however, each shift shall constitute eight  
(8) hours werk and eight (8) hours pay.  
$3.06 Where work is only allowed to be performed  
during off-peak traffic hours (evenings and  
nights), the $1.00 per hour premium shall apply.  
6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Metro area only.  
47  
$3.07 There shall be a minimum of one-half (1/2)  
hour break from work for lunch near the middle of  
each shift. Lunch breaks are not paid hours.  
$3.08 When three {3} shifts are worked, the first  
shift, shall constitute eight (8) working hours, The  
second shift shall constitute the following seven  
and one-half (7 1/2) working hours. The third shift  
shall constitute the succeeding seven (7) working  
hours. Each such full) shift shall be compensated  
by eight (8) hours straight time pay.  
### SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS  
$3.09 In the Eastern Zone all work performed  
between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday  
shal] be classed as Sunday work and paid for at the  
rate of two (2) times the regular hourly rate, except  
as a regular shift which ends on 9 Sunday or holiday  
morning or begins at or after 6:00 p.m. on a Sunday  
or holiday evening, shall be paid at the straight time  
rate. This includes the Eastern Metropolitan Zone.  
$3.10 In the Western Zone, all work performed  
between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday  
shall be classed as Sunday work and paid for at  
the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regu-  
lar hourly rate, except as a regular shift which  
ends on a Sunday or a holiday morning and begins  
at or after 6:00 p.m. on a Sunday or holiday  
evening shall be paid at the straight time rate.  
$3.11 Work performed on the following holidays  
shall be compensated for at the rate of two (2)  
times the regular hourly rate: New Yeara Day,  
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Dey,  
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day When  
Monday or Friday is designated and celebrated as  
one of the above listed legal holidays according to  
the regulations produced by the Federa] govern-  
ment, they shall be observed as such.  
48  
### SCHEDULE 4 - OWNER-OPERATORS  
$4.01 [If an Employer uses the services of an  
owner who operates their own piece of equipment  
on work covered by this Agreement, the sole oblig-  
ation of the Employer shal] be limited to:  
A. Pay the owner-operator wages at the rate of  
pay, fringe benefits and overtime specified in  
this Agreement; and  
B. Payments for wages and equipment shall be  
on two separate checks. The above shall be  
limited to cnses where the owner-operator is  
used for three (3) days or more.  
### SCHEDULE 5 - MANNING BY OPERATORS  
$5.01 Al} equipment operated, regardless of con-  
trols or power, coming under Operating Engineers  
jurisdiction must be manned by Operating  
Engineers,  
1. Cold Weather Maintenance: When it is neces-  
sary for the machine to be taken care of in  
cold weather, said work shall be done by the  
Operator of machine in question and the  
Employer shall be the sole judge when such  
work shall be necessary.  
2. Running Repair Work: Operators shall do  
running repair work on machines they oper-  
ate if no mechanic is employed.  
3. Repair Work: All repair work on jobs on  
equipment under our jurisdiction be  
done by Operating Engineers at the regular  
scale of wages, but this shall not bar the  
employment of specialists when necessary.  
Said Operators shall possess the necessary  
hand tools.  
4. Air Compressors: Air Compressors 800 CFM  
and over shall require an Operator. A Crane  
49  
10.  
Operator Apprentice (Oiler) on the project  
may be required to service and operate com-  
pressors, in lieu of an Operator, at the Group  
5 rate, if the compressors are in the vicinity of  
the crane the Crane Operator Apprentice  
(Oiler) is servicing.  
Boilers: When Boilers which require licensed  
Firemen are used on construction wark, they  
shall be manned by Operating Engineers,  
Well Point Installation: In accordance with  
past practices, Well Point Installation and dis-  
mantling shail be done by Engineers, assisted  
by Laborers, On day shift, one person in  
charge. (Not to be construed a3 requiring an  
extra person.)  
Assembling or Dismantling Equipment:  
Operators or Mechanics should be employed  
in assembling or dismantling a plant or  
crusher covered by this Agreement. On such  
work they shall be paid at their regular rate.  
This does not, however, preclude the use of  
other help if necessary.  
Pile Driving Operations: On pile driving  
operations, when three drums are in use, the  
classification one (1) scale shall be used.  
Finishing Rate: When an Employer classifies  
an Employee as a Grader or Motor Patrol,  
Finishing Earth Work and Bituminous  
Operator, and the Employee is assigned to  
perform Grader Operator (Motor Patro})  
work, they shall continue receiving the  
Finishing rate. (Exclusive of snow plowing.)  
Servicing Other Trades: Crane or Derrick  
Operators regularly assigned to directly ser-  
vice Ironworkers and/or Boilermakers shal]  
receive the same overtime provisions paid to  
Journeymen of these crafts for the time spent  
50  
il,  
while directly servicing those crafts, but not  
less than that specified in thie Agreement,  
Crane Operator Apprentice (Otlers) and  
Firemen; In the counties of Anoka, Carver,  
Cook, Dakota, Hennepin, Lake, Ramsey, St.  
Louis, Scott and Washington, that part of  
Sherburne County south of the northern  
boundary of T. 34-N and east of the western  
boundary af R. 27-W and that part of Wright  
County east of and inechuding Highway 25, and  
that part of Chisago County south of the  
northern boundary of T. 34-N and that part  
consisting substantially of the cities of  
Thomson, Cloquet, Scanlon and Cariton,  
Crane Operator Apprentice required on all  
heavy industrial sttes in Zone 1 per schedule  
§, paragraph 11, {a)—(i). Both parties to this  
agreement realize the necessity to increase  
the number of qualified crane operators in the  
construction industry. For this reason,  
employers are encouraged to utilize Crane  
Operator Apprentices in heu of Oilers. Crane  
Operator Apprentices will be paid a percent-  
age of the base wage in Classification Group  
2, per the in Schedule 8, Apprentice  
Training and Retraining. Crane Operator  
Apprentices do nat receive premiums, i.e.  
beam lengths, tonnage, etc. there is no  
requirement for both a Crane Operator  
Apprentice and an Oiler on the same crane.  
&. Truck Cranes and Locomotive Cranes  
must have a Crane Operator Apprentice  
(Giler) or Fireman.  
B. Two-Axle, self-propelled hydraulic  
cranes over 50 Ton Mfg. Rates capacity  
must have a Crane Operator Apprentice  
(Oiler),  
41  
   
All cranes and dragilines, over 56 ton and  
up to and including 100 ton, must have a  
Crane Operator Apprentice (Qiler) on  
the Ist crane and every other crane  
thereafter, if in close proximity of each  
other.  
All cranes, 50 ton and over, doing pile  
driving, sheeting work, caisson work,  
rotary and boring must have a  
Crane Operator Apprentice (Oiler).  
Cranes, over LO0 tan, must have a Crane  
Operator Apprentice (Oiler).  
All dismantling and erection of cranes  
not requiring Crane Operator  
Apprentices (Oilers) must be done by  
members of the Operating Engineers.  
Underground utility construction crews  
must have a Crane Operator Apprentice  
(Oier) on backhoes (excavators) having a  
manufacturer's operating weight of  
115,000 Ibs and over. The CAT 350L and  
similar equipment does not require an  
Oiler.  
Underground utility construction crews  
will net require a Crane Operator  
Apprentice (Oiler) when stripping with  
backhoes, installing services, installing  
storm sewer Jeade and catch basins  
Crane Operator Apprentices (Qilers  
may be required to operate compactior  
equipment in leu of Operators.  
On ali cranes, backhoes, excavators  
draglines, where a Crane Operato  
Apprentice (Ofler) is not required, if  
second Employee ia needed, they must b  
& member of the Operating Engineers,  
discretion.  
S2  
12,  
13.  
14.  
15.  
Oilers and Firemen in the Remainder of the  
State: When, as and if the Employer deter-  
mines that an Employee is needed to perform  
an Qiler's function on power shovels,  
hydraulic backhoes, cranes, draglines, rotary  
or churn drill rigs, blacktop plants, trenchers,  
traveling soil stabilizers, dredges or locomo-  
tive cranes, they shall be an Oiler or a Crane  
Operator Apprentice.  
Fump Operator and Mechanical Space Heater  
Operator Provision: Notwithstanding any  
ather pravisions in this Agreement to the con-  
trary when used, pump operators and  
mechanical space heater operators shall  
receive no more than time and one-half on  
holidays and from Saturday midnight till  
Sunday midnight.  
Snow Removai; To increase opportunities for  
work, Operating Engineers working on snow  
Temoval in the winter months will receive no  
overtime pay except after forty (40) hours in  
any week.  
Employment with other Crafts: In the coun-  
ties of Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin,  
Ramsey, Scott and Washington and that part  
of Sherburne County, south of the northern  
boundary of T. 34-N and east of the western  
boundary of R. 27-W; that part of Wright  
County east of the western right of way of  
Minnesota Highway 25; that part of Chisago  
County south of the northern boundary of T.  
84-N and that part of St. Louis County with-  
in the city limits of Duluth:  
A. When an Engineer with a craft working  
less than eight (8} hours a day, they must  
he employed for a full eight (8) hours’  
pay.  
53  
B. When Engineers are required to operate  
machines overtime, the Engineer  
employed on the machine shall work the  
overtime hours.  
### SCHEDULE 6 - CALL-IN PAY  
$6.01 Employees shall receive full time pay for all  
time spent in the service of Employers. There  
shall be no split shifts. When an Employee is  
called to work, they shall receive two hours’ pay if  
not put to work.  
$6.02 Call-In. Ifthe Employer calls the Union for  
help and workers do not report at the time agreed  
to between the business agent and Employer, the  
workers are not entitled to Call In Pay.  
$6.03 In the counties of Anoka, Carver, Dakota,  
Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott and Washington and that  
part of Sherburne county south of the northern  
boundary of T. 34-N and east of the western bound  
ary of R. 27-W; that part of Wright County east o  
the western right of way of Minnesota Highway  
25; that part of Chisago County south of the north  
ern boundary of T. 34-N and that part of St. Louis  
County within the city limita of Duluth. When an  
Operator starts work, either on the first or las  
half of the day or shift, and is afterwards ordercc  
to shut dewn, they shall receive full time pay fo  
that part of the day or shift. For example  
Operator starts work at 8:00 a.m. and is ordered t  
shut down at 10:30 a.m,, they will receive four (4  
hours pay, the same rule applies to afternoon shift  
If they work over four (4) hours and is the  
ordered to shut down, they shal] receive not les  
than eight (8) hours’ pay.  
$6.04 In the Remainder of the State: Employee  
told to report for work and then released o  
34  
worked any fraction of the first hour, shall be guar-  
anteed a minimum of two (2} hours’ pay at the rate  
specified.  
$6.05 The above provisions shall not apply when  
work is unable to proceed because (1) railroads or  
common carners fail to make deliveries as sched-  
uled; (2) the Engineer refuses to permit work; (3)  
Acta of God, including weather conditions will not  
permit work. The Employer also however shall  
provide telephone notification if arrangements are  
made te reach Employees through a central  
source.  
### SCHEDULE 7 - DEFINITION OF WORK  
$7.01 Heavy construction and railroad contracting  
work is defined ag construction substantially in its  
entirety and fixed structure and other improve-  
ment or modification thereof, or an addition or  
repair thereto, including any structure or opera-  
tion which is an incidental part of the contract  
thereof, including without limitation (not inelud-  
ing Building Construction excapt as to work below  
grade and including grading on site), railroads and  
street construction projects, underground utilities,  
watermains, grade separations, foundations, pile  
driving, piers, abutments, retaining walls,  
viaducts, shafts, tunnels, subways, track elevation,  
elevated highways, drainage projects, sanitation  
projects, aqueducts, irngation projects, flood con-  
trol projects, reclamation projects, reservoirs,  
water supply projects, water power developments,  
hydro-electric developments, duct lines, pipe lines,  
locks, dams, dikes, levees, revetments, channels,  
channel cut-offs, intakes, dredging projects, (all  
dredging in the State of Minnesota and boundary  
waters, excluding dipper and hydraulic dredging  
on Lake Superior and up to the Fond du Lac bridge  
55  
where T.H. 23 crosses the St, Louis River), jetties,  
breakwaters, docks, harbors, sites, air-  
ports, excavation and disposal of earth and rock,  
including the assembly, operation, maintenance  
and repair on all equipment, vehicles and other  
facilities used in connection with and serving the  
aforementioned work and services. Highway con-  
struction is defined as all work ordinanily included  
in highway construction contracts, bridges, under-  
ground utilities and street grading street paving,  
curb setting, sidewalks, ete.  
Note: A. In the counties of Anoka, Carver, Dakota,  
Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott and Washington and that  
part of Sherburne County south of the northern  
boundary of T. 34-N and east of the western bound-  
ary of R. 27-W; that part of Wright County east of  
the western right of way of Minnesota Highway  
25; that part of Chisago County south of the north-  
ern boundary of T. 34-N and that. part of St. Louis  
County within the city limita of Duluth.  
Maintenance and repair work in contractors per-  
manent shops will be covered by the Metrapolitan  
Shop Agreement for those contractors now signa-  
tory thereto. The Shop Agreement will be a rider  
to this construction contract. When a new  
Metropolitan Shop Agreement is n¢gotiated, it will  
become a rider to this Agreement.  
Note: B, Demolition of al] highway, heavy and  
building structures is covered by the terms of this  
  
Note: C. Exclude the following work when done  
in connection with Building Construction:  
Caissons, foundations, concrete pilings, and piling  
that remains part of the permanent  
within the building line.  
36  
### SCHEDULE & - APPRENTICE TRAINING  
### AND RETRAINING  
$8.01 The Employer and the Union agree that a  
committee comprised of three representatives  
from each proup shall establish an apprentice  
training program and retraining program to func-  
tion under the Nationa) Joint Apprenticeship and  
Training Committee for Operating Engineers.  
Said committee has adopted a Trust Agrecment,  
rules and regulations, and shall determine eligi-  
bility and supervise the local administration of  
said program.  
$8.02 Effective May 1, 2005, the Employer shall  
pay monthly inte the Operating Engineers Local  
49 Apprentice Training and Retraining Fund thir-  
ty-five cents (35¢) per hour for each hour paid for  
or worked in the preceding month by all  
Employees covered by this Apreement. Said pay-  
ments shall be made on the dates, in the manner,  
and form, and in accordance with the rules and  
regulations as adopted by the Trustees.  
Negligence of the Employer in complying with this  
Article shall be deemed a direct violation of this  
### Agreement.  
$8.03 APPRENTICES: The use of apprentices  
shall be encouraged and promoted.  
### RATIO OF APPRENTICES TO  
### JOURNEYWORKERS  
$8.04 The utilization of Apprentices by an  
Employer shall be in relationship to the number of  
Operators employed. The ratio of Apprentices to  
Journeyworkers shal! be the following: lL  
Apprentice to 10 full-time Operators, or as follows:  
1-10 Operators employed  
- No more than 1 Apprentice  
5?  
11-20 Operators employed  
- No more than 2 Apprentices  
21-30 Operators employed  
- No more than 3 Apprentices  
31-40 Operators employed  
-~No more than 4 Apprentices  
41-50 Operators employed  
- No more than 5 Apprentices  
50+ Operators employed  
- No more than 1 Apprentice for each 10  
{or portion thereof) Operators employed.  
(One apprentice will be allowed as long as there is  
one journeyworker. A second apprentice will not  
be allowed until there are eleven journeyworkers.  
An additional apprentice will be allowed for ench  
additional ten journeyworkers. This ratio wil] be  
based on the total Operating Engineer  
work force [excluding employed apprentices) and  
not on a per job basia.)  
$8.05 Apprentice wages are as follows: Wage  
rate based on Group 5 in the appropriate Zone.  
Excavating and Grading Apprentice Program  
First 1,000 hours T0%  
Second 1,000 hours 80%  
Third 1,000 hours 90%  
Fourth 1,000 hours 100%  
Wage Scale for Crane Operator Apprentice  
Crane Operator Trainees shall be paid at the fol-  
lowing percentages. (Percentages based on Group  
2 scale.)  
* 0 -— 2000 hrs. 70%  
2000 hrs. 75%  
4000 hrs. 86% - exiating oilers to start  
6000 hrs. 93%  
*# # &  
38  
* 8001 hrs. — Journey worker 190%  
Course Length  
The total time spent in the program will ultimate-  
ly be based upon the learner’s ability to compre-  
hend various subjects and apply them to various  
tasks. The minimum time in the program is 8000  
hours (minus previous experience that is granted  
when possible.) Persons who are unable to achieve  
the goals set forth in the training outline will be  
offered remedial help, however, if a person is  
unable to comprehend the program after addition-  
al time is gtven they will be removed from the pro-  
gram.  
### SCHEDULE $ - DRUG/ALCOHOL ABUSE  
### PROGRAM  
$9.01 Section 1. Contractors who wish to sign  
“Labor user Contractors Committee Joint Labor  
Management Uniform Drug/Aleohol Abuse  
Program” may do so by obtaining forms from Local  
49's office or the Associated General Contractors of  
Minnesota office.  
$9.02 Contractors shall be permitted to perform  
random drug/alcohol testing to meet legal or  
owner requirements if the Employer has adopted a  
written drug and alcohol testing policy complying  
with the provisions of the LUC program and  
applicable statutes.  
39.03 The Parties to this Agreement agree that  
he Employers shal! be allowed to perform random  
irug/aleohol testing on all projects in accordance  
vith applicable statutes. The AGC and Local 49  
vill meet to draft proper language to incorporate  
nd make part of this Agreement. Until this lan-  
uage igs agreed to and made part of this  
\preement, random testing will be allowed only  
59  
under Section 2, above.  
One (1) hour pay for negative drug testing on pre-  
hire testing.  
### SCHEDULE 10 - NATIONAL HEALTH  
### INSURANCE PROGRAM  
$10.01 In the event that a National Health  
Insurance Program is enacted, the Employer con  
tribution to the current Health and Welfare Plan  
as described in Schedule 2, shall be applied to any  
cost incurred by the Employer and/or the  
Employees covered hereunder in connection with  
such National Health Plan.  
$10.02 If the current Employer contribution is ir  
excess of the cost of such Nationa] Health Plan  
then at the discretion of the employees coverec  
hereunder, the difference shall become a contribu  
tien te either a supplemental health and welfar  
insurance plan and/or one of the existing  
Plans.  
### SCHEDULE 11 — WORKERS’  
### COMPENSATION  
$11.01 AGC of Minnesota and Operatin  
Engineers Lecal #49 hereby agree to enter into a  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust for the estab  
lishment of the AGC of Minnesota-Bam  
Construction Crafts Workers’ Compensation Fun  
(hereinafter “the Fung”) to provide workers’ com  
pensation benefits to eligible employees under thi  
Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
$11.02 The operation of the Worker  
Compensation program will be determined by th  
Trustees in accordance with the Agreement an  
Declaration of Trust establishing the Func  
together with any amendments thereto and regu  
60  
lations established by the Trustees, and the par-  
ties hereby designate as their representatives of  
the Board of Trustees such Trustees a& are named  
pursuant to the Trust Agreement, together with  
any successors who may be appointed pursuant to  
the Agreement and Declaration of Trust. The par-  
ties hereto agree to be bound by the delinquency  
collection procedures established by the Trustees  
of the Fund, as may be revised from time to time.  
$11.03 {t is the purpose of this Trust Fund to pro-  
vide Employees who claim compensable personal  
injuries and occupational diseases occurring under  
Minnesota Workers’ Compensation laws with ben-  
efits required by law, The amount of contributions  
to this Fund shall be established by the Trustees  
and may be changed from time to time.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused  
this Agreement to be executed this 1"  
day of __, 2005.  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### CONTRACTORS OF OF OPERATING ENGINEERS  
### MINNESOTA LOCAL NO, 49  
/  
G Nace. ehh,  
Dave Semerad, CEO Glen D. Johnsom, Business Mgr.  
1 Plann fo  
Keith Kramer Thomas H. Pariseau, Jr.,  
Director of Labor Relations President  
Kyle D. Jones  
Recording-Corresponding  
Secretary  
61