       
    
ne Operating Engineers 7  
Local 4 and Its Branches  
    
2008-2011  
### MASTER DOCUMENT  
   
   
Kt $490.  
2008-2011  
### MASTER DOCUMENT  
and  
Provisions of the Agreements. ..  
between  
     
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS  
Local 4 and its Branches  
and  
Labor Relations Division of  
Construction Industries of Massachusetts  
Foundation & Marine Contractors  
Association of New England, Inc.  
Building Trades Employers Association  
of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts  
Labor Relations Division of the  
e Associated General Contractors of  
Massachusetts, Inc.  
### CONTENTS  
Part One — Master Document  
Foreword & Preamble 0400005 l  
Arcicle | Terricorial Jurisdiction z  
Article I] Labor Management Relations ......... 2  
### Article HJ = Subcontracting 4  
Article IVs Holidays 2... ee ee eee 3  
### Article V Hoisting Machine Crews 7  
### Article VI = Apprenticeship 8  
### Arcicle VI] = General Provisions ................ 1]  
Article Work Week 200.00. ee ee 16 |  
### Article IX Stewards Ig  
### Article X Sacurdays, Sundays and Inclement Weacher 20  
### Part A Provisions — Construction Industries of  
Massachusetts ................ 2|  
Arcicle | Scope of Employmenc .. 2.0... ee 21  
Article El Hours ee Ze  
### Article Hl Overtime ee 23  
### Arcicle IV Special Provisions 24  
Arcicle V Shafts and Tunnels... 27  
VI Scope of Agreement ............... 28  
Arcicle VII Savings Clause... 2.2 28  
Part B Provisions — Foundation and Marine  
wi ew nee ses wm 30  
Article | Scope of Employment 30  
II Hours 2. ee 31  
Article JI «cee wi wwe we we Be  
Article 1V Special Provisions ................ 32  
### Article V Scope of Agreement ............... 39  
### Article VI Savings Clause 2.0.2.2... eee 40  
eo  
Part C Provisions — Associated General  
Contractors — Building Trades  
Employers Association .......... 4]  
Foreword 4]  
Article | Title 2... ee ee ee 4]  
Article II Jurisdiction 2.2... 0.2.22 ee eee 42  
Arcicle III Hours eee ee 43  
Arcicle IV Overtime 44  
Article V Special Provisions 44  
### Article VI Rented Cranes, Truck Cranes, Cherry  
Pickers — Trave] & Subsistence ...... 51  
Article VIL Scope of Agreement ..............-. 54  
### Article VI[} Savings Clause 55  
### Pare Two — Master Document  
Article X! Health & Welfare, Pension,  
### Annuity & Savings Cooperative Trust,  
Apprentice Program and CIM Industry  
Advancement Funds .........-..-.- 56  
Arcicle XI] Liabilicy Insurance... 61  
Article XIII Overloaded or Improperly Registered  
VONICIES cai wna mm sme me et wa me wR 62  
Arcicle XIV. Dues Deduction 62  
Article XV_— Social and Political Action Committees . . 63  
### Article XVI Foundation for Fair Contracting and CIM  
### Industry Advancement Fund ....... 64  
Arcicle XVII Arbitration 65  
Arcicle XVIIf Several Liability... 66  
Arcicle XIX Bonding 66  
Article XX = Drug Abuse Prevencion and Detection . . . 68  
### Article XXI_ Memorandum of Agreement ......... 72  
### Article XXII Workers’ Compensation ............ 73  
### Arcicle XXIII Termination 73  
Witness ee 76  
Schedule of Wages eee 78  
Index ee 85  
### PART ONE  
### MASTER DOCUMENT  
### FOREWORD  
The Collective Bargaining Agreements between  
' the International Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 and its Branches, and che Labor Relations  
Division of Construction Industries of Massachusetts,  
the Foundation & Marine Contractors Association of  
New England, Inc., che Building Trades Employers  
Association of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts and  
the Labor Relations Division of the Associated Gen-  
eral Contractors of Massachusetts, Inc. are separate  
| and distince Collective Bargaining Agreements. Théy  
are incorporated herein for convenience.  
The parties have endeavored to accurately tran-  
scribe che provisions of the separate Agreements into  
this Master Document. In the event of a conflict  
between chis document and the separate Collective  
Bargaining Agreements, the Collective Bargaining  
Agreements shall prevail.  
### PREAMBLE  
These Agreements are entered into to facilitace the  
adjustment of grievances and disputes between  
Employers and employees; to provide insofar as pos-  
sible, for the continuous employment of labor, to  
bring about stable conditions in the industry, and co  
establish necessary procedure for the amicable adjust-  
ment of all disputes which may arise between  
Employers and employees. °  
Part One — Article I  
### TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION  
These Agreements apply to che territorial juris-  
diction granted co Local Union 4 and ics Branches  
by the I.U.O.E. as follows: Eastern parc of the Com-  
monwealth of Massachusetts excluding seven town-  
ships in Worcester County and che Western parc of  
Worcester County to a demarcation line formed by  
the Eastern boundaries of che following cownships:  
Sturbridge, Brookfeld, East Brookfield, North  
Brookfield, Oakham, Barre, Templeton, and  
Winchendon.  
Additionally, the Foundation & Marine Contrac-  
tors Association of New England, Inc. Agreement  
also applies to the five eascerly counties in New  
Hampshire consisting of Coos, Carroll, Scrafford,  
Belknap and Rockingham; and the entire state of  
Maine.  
Part One - Article I  
### LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS  
Section 1. The Local is recognized as the sole and  
exclusive agency and of the employees  
covered by these Agreements for the purpose of col-  
lective bargaining with respect to wages, hours of  
work, and other conditions of employment, and for  
the purpose, also, of ocher mucual aid and protection.  
The Employer shall noc make any agreement in con-  
flicc wich the provisions of these Agreements.  
Section 2. Subject to applicable existing Federal and  
State Laws, each Employer recognizes that the Local  
2  
is che established and prime source of skilled and  
_ dependable labor necessary or required to perform  
the kind of work covered within its craft jurisdiction  
and that the Local is normally ready, able, and will-  
ing to supply such kind and qualicy of labor; and  
the Employer recognizes chat all labor co be hired  
shall be of a kind and quality able co work efficiently  
with other labor employed or to be employed on  
work. The Employer agrees that on occasion of need  
for such labor, it shall notify the Local of the need  
for qualified workers in the classifications wichin its  
craft jurisdiction.  
Section 3. Qualified workers procured as hereinafter  
provided or from other sources, if they are not mem-  
bers of the Local, shall apply for and become and  
remain members of the Local after the expiration of  
seven (7) days from the date of their employment or  
from the date of execution of chis Agreement, which-  
ever is later.  
Section 4. All employees shall be hired by che  
Employer. The Employer and the Local mutually  
agree that there shall be no discrimination wich  
regard to an employee's race, color, religion, sex, or  
national origin in regards to job referral or conditions  
of employment. The parties to chese Agreements  
agree to comply with and adhere co the intent and  
purpose of the Civil Rights Ace of 1964. The Local  
agrees that ic will assisc che Employer in meeting  
these obligations under plans which have been  
jointly accepced by che parties.  
a  
2D  
Section 5. The parties agree chac there shall be no  
lockouts by the Employer, nor any strikes or stop-  
page of work by the Local except for nonpayment of  
wages, including contributions to the Healch & Wel-  
fare, Pension, Annuity & Savings 401(k) Plan, Coop-  
eracive Trust and Training Funds.  
Part One — Article II  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
Section |. The Employer agrees chat neither he/she  
nor any of his/her subcontractors will subcontract any  
work covered by this Agreement, co be done ac the  
site of construction, alteration, painting or repair of  
a building, structure or other work (including quar-  
ries, rock, sand and gravel plants, established on or  
adjacent to the job site to process or supply materials  
for the convenience of the Employer for job-site use)  
except co a person, firm or corporation, party to a  
current labor agreement with the Local.  
Section 2. This paragraph shall be interpreted and  
enforced consistent with Section 8 (e) of che Labor  
Management Relations Act, as amended.  
Section 3. The Employer shall be responsible for the  
monthly payment of fringe benefic contributions  
measured by the hours worked ac the Employer's job  
sites by Owner/Operators performing work covered  
by this Agreement. Such payment shall not be con-  
sidered an agreement that such Owner/Operators are  
employees of the Employer. The parties agree chat,  
where practical, preference on overtime shall be  
4  
given to Local 4 employees, racher than to Owner/  
Operators.  
Section 4. By Friday of the first and third weeks of  
each month the Employer shall notify the Local, by  
facsimile transmission, of Owner/Operators engaged  
on their projects and the hours they have worked.  
Part One — Article lV  
### HOLIDAYS  
Section 1, The holidays which are to be observed in  
these Agreements are as follows: New Year's Day,  
Birthday, Pacriots’ Day, Memorial Day,  
July 4th, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or days on which  
these holidays are observed. Holidays shall noc be  
deductible when engineers are on straight time.  
Section 2. An employee on straight cime shall  
receive eight (8) hours’ straight time pay for a hol-  
iday not worked, including a holiday falling on Sat-  
urday. An employee on straight time, who is laid off,  
shall receive holiday pay for a holiday, including a  
holiday falling on Saturday if he/she has worked  
three (3) days in the calendar week in which the  
holiday falls.  
Section 3. Engineers or assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, working under the provisions of “Section A,”  
on a broken time or daily basis shall be paid holiday  
pay at the broken time or daily rate for a holiday  
falling within the regular work week, or on Saturday,  
provided they have worked a coral of three (3) days  
>  
including the work day immediately preceding the  
holiday within any period of five (5) regular work  
days (including the holiday) in which che holiday  
falls. Engineers working under the provisions of  
“Sections B or C” shal! receive holiday pay at the  
straight time rate provided they have worked chree  
(3) days in said week.  
Section 4. Employees shall noc be eligible for holi-  
day pay when they fai! without cause, co work che  
regular work day preceding che holiday or che reg-  
ular work day following che holiday.  
Section 5. Engineers or assistant engineer/appren-  
tices ordered out on a holiday shall receive a guar-  
antee of eight (8) hours work at chree (3) times their  
regular rate of wages within the hours of cheir reg-  
ular shift, except chat engineers employed on a seven  
(7) day power-driven heater or pump operation shall  
be paid double time and one-half, and in the case of  
emergency public ucility work shall be paid double  
time.  
Section 6. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, employed on straight cime for one full payroll  
period, shall receive pay for Christmas Day if laid off  
on or after December 15", and shall receive pay for  
New Year's Day if rehired on or before January 15".  
Section 7. No work shall be performed on Labor  
Day except in case of danger co life, health, or  
property.  
   
Part One — Article V  
### HOISTING MACHINE CREWS  
Section 1. Hoisting machine crews shall consist of  
an operator and an assistant engineer, an assistant  
engineer firemen or an apprentice. The term “hoist-  
ing machine” shall apply co cranes, locomotive  
cranes, climbing cranes, tower cranes, cranes operated  
from scows, land and floating steam pile drivers,  
whirlies, lighters, drill rigs (of the type used to  
install caissons or drilled shafts), gradalls, dragline  
machines, and cherry pickers/hydraulic cranes, except  
that cherry pickers/hydraulic cranes, of noc over  
ninety (90) ton rated capacity and boom and jib  
lengths not exceeding manufacturer's specifications,  
shall require an engineer only. This exception does  
not apply to lattice boom cranes. The use of appren-  
tices for and assembly of the above  
mencioned cherry pickers/hydraulic cranes 1s  
encouraged.  
Section 2. For traveling derricks and derricks of fifty  
(50) ton or over, except as provided above, two (2)  
or three (3) derricks shall require one (1) assistant  
and four (4) cto six (G6) derricks two (2) assistants.  
Lighters of less chan cwelve (12) ton capacity shall  
require an assistant only when digging or using  
steam hammer.  
Section 3. The assistant engineer/apprencice on  
hoisting machines shall be a person who will work  
in harmony wich che operator.  
Section 4. Crane capacity is recognized as both a  
function of maximum capacity at minimum radius  
5  
and capacity at an effective working radius. Cranes  
marketed and sold elsewhere in the country at a  
given capacity will be recognized in this Agreement  
at thac capacity.  
Section 5. Assistant engineers/oilers will not be  
required on individual excavators, rather, the follow-  
ing terms and conditions shall apply co assistant  
engineers/apprentices:  
(a) The assistant engineer/apprentice shall assise  
the Operating Engineer by facilitating the loading  
and movement of trucks.  
(b) On “hoisting machines” the assistant engi-  
neer/apprentice may be allowed a minimum of  
two (2) hours a week operating time, at the dis-  
cretion of the operator and Employer's  
representative.  
Section 6. Crane operators, successfully completing  
the requirements mandated by the National Com-  
mission for the Certification of Crane Operators, shall  
receive a one time, five-hundred (500) dollar “Safety  
and Education” grant from the Joinc Labor/Manage-  
menc Cooperative Trust.  
Part One — Article V1  
### APPRENTICESHIP  
Section 1. Apprentices, subject to availabilicy, will  
be referred co each Employer in the ratio of one  
Apprentice to each six (lL : 6) Journey-members  
employed. “Hoisting machines,” as defined in the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement, and Group III  
8  
equipment, will not be computed into this ratio.  
Hoisting machines will continue to be manned as  
required in the Agreement.  
Section 2, The Employer shall noc layoff an Appren-  
tice for lack of work, unless notice has been given co  
the Local at least cwenty-four (24) hours prior to lay-  
off. When equipment is shut down the Apprentices  
will not replace the Journey-member.  
Section 3. The parties agree to comply with che  
Standards of Apprenticeship for Operating Engineers  
as established by the Joint Apprenticeship & Train-  
ing Committee. The Apprentice shall assume such  
duties as are agreed to by the Joint Apprenticeship  
and Training Trustees.  
Section 4. The classification of Apprentices (e.g.  
Firsc Year, Second Year, etc.) shall be defined by the  
Apprenticeship and Training Coordinator. Appren-  
tices, upon successful completion of each incremental  
milestone, shall receive a 5% step rate increase based  
on the Group I wage classification.  
(a) Induction co successful completion of  
probationary period: 55%  
(b) Second six months of Apprenticeship to  
successful completion of first year: 60%  
(c) Third six months of Registered  
Apprenticeship: 65%  
(d) Fourth six months of Apprenticeship to  
successful completion of second year: 70%  
9  
(e) Fifth six months of Registered  
Apprenticeship: 75%  
(f) Sixch six months of Apprenticeship co  
successful completion of chird year: 80%  
(g) Seventh six months of Registered  
Apprenticeship: 85%  
(h) Eighth six months of Apprenticeship  
to completion of Program: 90%  
Section 5. Probationary Apprentices shall not have  
contributions for che Pension or Annuity Plans, nor  
deductions for the Annuity & Savings 401(k) Plan,  
made on their behalf. Upon successful completion of  
the probationary period and acceptance into the  
Local Union, Apprentices shall participate in all  
Fringe Beneft Plans offered by the Local. Ir is  
expected thac not more than one First Year Appren-  
tice will be assigned to che same site.  
Section 6. Apprentice Engineers, may be assigned as  
Assiscant Engineers on “hoisting machines” and will  
be compensated at the appropriate apprentice step  
rate.  
Section 7. Graduate Apprentices may be assigned co  
operate cranes, cherry pickers, truck cranes or other  
“hoisting machines,” for a period of one (1) year and  
will be compensated ac the rate specified in the Col-  
lective Bargaining Agreement. Graduate Appren-  
tices, working in the Crane Rental Industry during  
this interval, may also be dispacched as the assistant  
engineer on a “hoisting machine.”  
### LO  
   
Section 8. Upon completion of the formal Appren-  
ciceship Program (or the additional year when  
assigned co cranes, cherry pickers, cruck cranes or  
other hoisting machines) Apprentices shall transfer  
out of the Apprenciceship Branch into a  
Journey-member Branch.  
Part One — Article Vil  
### GENERAL PROVISIONS  
Section 1. When pumping is required twenty-four  
(24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, four (4) shifts  
shall be employed, each of which shifts shall receive  
forty (40) hours wages ac straight time and two (2)  
hours wages at double-time. When work is_per-  
formed on Saturday or Sunday, and the pumping  
operation is indispensable to such work, then pre-  
mium pay shall be paid for all che pump operators  
on Saturday or Sunday. Holidays shall be paid at  
three (3) times the regular rate of wages.  
On private construction jobs, that are not sub-  
ject to a Project Labor Agreement where around  
the clock manning would pose a competitive  
disadvantage to Union Contractors, this require-  
ment will be waived. Proper prior discussion  
with Business Representative is required in this  
situation.  
(a) The above provisions shall noc apply to cunnel  
work which shall continue to be paid in accordance  
with che regular overtime provisions of this  
Agreement.  
11  
Section 2. When power driven heaters are used  
twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week,  
four (4) shifts shall be employed starting Monday at  
8 a.m. Said four (4) shifts shall consist of six (6)  
hours duration each. Each week each shift shall  
receive forty (40) hours wages at straight time and  
two (2) hours at double cime except for a week  
including a holiday. Nocwithstanding any other pro-  
vision(s) contained herein, such continuous heater  
operation shall terminate at 8 a.m. Monday.  
Section 3. The following regulations shall apply co  
high speed electric conveyors:  
(a) One (1) co five (5) conveyors without a gen-  
erator, Group III. One (L) co five (5) conveyors  
with a generator, Group I (straight or daily rate).  
(b) More than five (5) conveyors, Group I  
(straight or daily rate.)  
(c) When more than one line of conveyors is  
required, an additional engineer shall be employed  
for each additional line.  
(d) When more chan one control location is  
required on a line an additional engineer shall be  
employed for each additional control location.  
(e) Engineers shall set up and dismantle the  
conveyor Operation.  
Section 4. When a sonic or vibratory hammer is  
used with or a generator, an engineer shall  
be employed ac Group II rate, and shall operate both  
the generator and che console.  
12  
Section 5. Dozers, tractors, and scrapers will be fur-  
nished with cabs and curtains and summer and win-  
ter fans. On dusty operations when water or a proper  
substitute is not used, the Employer shall furnish  
breathing masks.  
(a) Shovels, cranes, backhoes, gradalls, front end  
loaders, and shovel dozers shall be equipped with  
heaters.  
(b) On paving equipment wind breakers will be  
installed when cold weather requires such, and  
where the structure of the machine makes such  
practical.  
Section 6. On grease trucks with power unit, an  
engineer shall be employed at maintenance engineer’s  
race, and if, in che opinion of the Employer, an assis-  
tant is required, the assistance shall be an apprentice.  
Section 7. Employees using their own vehicles as an  
escort vehicle shall be paid travel expenses at the rate  
of eighty-five (85) cents per mile for such use. It ts  
understood and agreed that when employees utilize  
their own vehicles to provide such escort the  
Employer will assume liabilicry and indemnify che  
employee for any claims or tiabilicy in excess of any  
insurance coverage thac the employee may have.  
Section 8. Not less than three (3) engineers shall be  
employed on the of and final dismancling  
of a wellpoint system.  
Section 9. The Employer recognizes che traditional  
of the Operating Engineers in the  
13  
assembly, on-site moving, erection and maintenance  
of all equipment covered by this Agreement. The  
Employer further recognizes chat the fabrication,  
assembly, maintenance, welding and repair of chat  
equipment on che job-sice is the work of the Oper-  
acing Engineer.  
Section 10. Conventional (cable controlled) clam-  
shell and slurry buckets shall be classihed as Group  
Ic.  
Section 11, For measuremenc of boom lengch in  
regards co “all” types of tower cranes, effective Jan-  
uary 1, 2009, the length shall be the sum of the two  
distances: 1) The elevation under che hook; 2) The  
distance from the head sheave pin to the back of the  
councerweights. For cranes with “luffing booms,” che  
length shall be the sum of the two distances: 1) The  
elevacion to che luffing boom foot pins; 2) The dis-  
tance from the luffing boom foot pin co the head  
sheave pin.  
Section 12. Boom lengths apply to cranes on roofs  
or similar elevated positions. Engineers receiving any  
boom length wage addictive shall be paid such rate  
for the full payroll period, even though the boom is  
shortened.  
Section 13. Prior to the use of new methods or new  
equipment that may come under these Agreements,  
che manning of such equipment or system, the wage  
classification and the methods to be used in operat-  
ing such systems or equipment shall be discussed at  
a pre-job conference. In the evenc the parties do not  
14  
reach agreement in the pre-job conference the dis-  
pute provisions of these Agreements shall be used.  
Section 14. Equipment and techniques, used pri-  
marily in HazMat cleanups, such as robotic con-  
trolled equipment, concrete cleaning machines,  
ultra-high pressure water-jet cutting cool systems,  
vacuum blascing machines and che maintenance  
technicians needed to service this equipment, will be  
discussed at a pre-job conference.  
Section 15. Industrial fork lifts/chisel trucks, hoist-  
ing not over nine (9) feet, shall be operated by a  
ucilicy technician and shall be classified as Group III.  
Section 16. Track mounted and hydraulic operated  
self un-loading material movers, shall be classified as  
Group III. Track mounted material movers,  
equipped wich a “dozer” type blade, shall be classi-  
fied as Group I].  
Section 17. Welding machines, with the exception  
of stud welding machines, need not be manned. In  
the event an Employer desires to man welding  
machines, an engineer will be assigned at the Group  
III rate.  
Section 18. A single submersible electric pump of  
not over three (3) inches in suction diameter may be  
operated without an engineer. In the event an  
Employer desires to man the pump, an engineer will  
be assigned.  
Section 19. A single compressor of not over 185  
cfm, may be operated without an engineer. In the  
15  
event an Employer desires to man the compressor,  
an engineer will be assigned.  
Section 20. The issue of change facilities will be dis-  
cussed at the pre-job conference, or as site conditions  
evolve, and will be provided where warranted by on-  
site conditions.  
Section 21. In the case where the owner, developer  
or general contract limits the hours co be worked,  
the Employer may work an eight (8) hour off shift  
inclusive of Junch period, at straight cime rates. The  
employer shall provide verification of such a require-  
ment upon the request of the Local Union.  
Section 22. The use of cell phones or similar per-  
sonal communication devices is prohibited during  
working hours.  
Section 23. If the majority of the other trades on a  
given project have agreed to work four (4) tens (10's),  
Local 4, after ample notification to the Business Rep-  
resentative, will also agree cto this schedule. This  
schedule does noc have a provision for a make-up day.  
Part One — Article VIII  
### WORK WEEK  
Section |. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, employed on a straight time basis, shall receive  
forty (40) hours straight time pay each payroll  
period of employment except in che following  
circumscances:  
(a) Ac the completion of work for a machine,  
which may come only after at least one (1) full  
16  
payroll period immediately preceding completion,  
engineers or assistant engineer/apprentices shall  
receive no less than three (3) days’ pay, unless, the  
work extends beyond the third day, in which case  
a full week's wages shall be paid.  
(b) When the Employer shucs down a job for  
the winter season, engineers and assistant engi-  
neer/apprenctices who have been employed at lease  
one (1) full payroll period immediately preceding  
the shut down, shall receive no less than chree (3)  
days’ pay, unless the work extends beyond the  
third day, in which case a full week's wages will  
be paid.  
(c) Engineers and assistant engineer/apprentices  
whose employment begins after che start of che  
payroll period, shall receive pay only for those  
straight time days remaining in said _ payroll  
period provided such days are immediately fol-  
lowed by one full payroll period.  
(d) Engineers and assistant engineer/apprentices  
laid off on other than completion of work for a  
machine shall receive forty (40) hours pay at the  
conclusion of the payroll period in which layoff  
takes place, and if rehired anycime in che payroll  
period immediately following, shall be paid for  
chose straight cime days intervening between the  
layoff and rehiring. If however, more chan one (1)  
full payroll period intervenes between layoff and  
rehiring, chen they shall receive pay only for those  
days remaining in the payroll period in which they  
are rehired provided such remaining days are  
17  
immediately followed by one (1) full payroll  
period.  
(e) Employees engaged in test-pile work which |  
precedes the start of a job shall receive not less  
than three (3) days pay unless work extends  
beyond the chird day in which case a full week's  
wages shall be paid.  
Section 2. In cases where the owner, developer, or  
awarding authority limits the hours to be worked,  
the Employer may work an eight (8) hour off shift,  
inclusive of lunch period, at straight time rates.  
Upon request, the employer shall produce verifica-  
tion of this requirement.  
Section 3. Any engineer or assistant engineer/  
apprentice desiring co quit his/her job shall notify  
the Employer and Business Representative, and shall  
continue on the job until relieved by a compecent  
engineer or assistant engineer.  
Section 4. On application of clause, the  
calendar week shall govern. On layoffs, the engineer  
Or assistant engineer/apprentice shall be paid off one-  
half hour before regular quitting time.  
Part One — Article 1X  
### STEWARDS  
Section 1. The Local may appoinc stewards on jobs.  
Stewards shall not be discriminated against because  
of their legitimate activities on behalf of rhe Local.  
In the evenc a steward is laid off, he/she shall be  
18  
given consideration on any new job opportunity for  
which he/she is qualified.  
Section 2. On jobs bid on or after June 1, 1999,  
with a dollar value in excess of $25 million, che  
steward shall be assigned at equipment mobilization  
and may function as a utility technician until such  
time as a more appropriate assignment becomes  
available.  
Section 3. There shall be no non-working stewards.  
Stewards shall be allowed to reasonably consult other  
engineers and assistant engineer/apprentices on the  
job wich as little incerruption as possible co work.  
Business Representatives shall be allowed co visit all  
jobs, inspect cards, appoinc stewards, and enforce the  
provisions of this Agreement.  
Part One — Article X  
### SATURDAYS, SUNDAYS, and  
### INCLEMENT WEATHER  
Section 1. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, when ordered out on a Saturday or Sunday  
shift, shall receive a guarantee of eight (8) hours  
work at premium pay, unless che inclement weather  
clause conditions apply.  
Section 2, In the event that members of che Local  
are ordered out for work on Saturday and/or Sunday,  
and due co inclemenc weather only are unable to  
work, they shall be paid as follows:  
(a) For reporting but not starting, they shall  
receive two (2) hours ac che premium rate.  
19  
(b) For starting work, they shall receive no less  
than four (4) hours at the premium rate.  
(c) For working beyond che fourch hour chey  
shall receive a minimum of eight (8) hours at the  
premium rate.  
Section 3. In the event che operator determines chat  
he/she is unable to work due to high winds, the  
inclement weather clause shall apply.  
Section 4. On Saturday, Sunday and Holidays, the  
Employer may advance starting time of a shift by  
one hour.  
20  
### PART A  
Provisions of the Agreement  
with  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
Construction Industries of Massachusetts  
This Agreement made chis Ise day of June 2008,  
by and between Labor Relations Division of Con-  
struction Industries of Massachusetts, hereinafter  
called the “Association,” on behalf of its members,  
each of which members is hereinafter designated as  
the “Employer,” and the International Union of  
Operating Engineers Local 4 and its Branches,  
hereinafter designated as the “Local.”  
Part A — Article 1  
### SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT  
Section I. The terms of this Agreement shall apply  
to all operations usually undertaken by the Highway  
and Heavy Construction Industry including but not  
limited co highway, heavy and utility construction  
on roads, streets, alleys, sidewalks, parkways, parking  
areas, airports, bridle paths, achletic fields, highway  
and railroad bridges, asphalc plants, aggregate proc-  
essing plants, cunnels, dams, water treatment plants,  
sewage treatment plants, subways, driveways, grade  
separation involving highways, conduits, service  
mains, sewers in crenches, foundations other than  
those used exclusively in building construction, earth  
dams, snow removal, flood control projects, filcer  
beds and filcration including the assembly,  
operation and maintenance of all equipment, vehicles  
21  
and facilities used in connection with and serving  
the aforementioned work and services except when  
the matter of repairs is such chat they cannot be  
made by employees.  
Section 2. There shall be EXCLUDED, however,  
from this Agreemenc all building construction, con-  
struction of pumping stations, except when fully  
integrated in a heavy construction project, demoli-  
cion of building superstructures, construction of oil  
terminals, piers, docks, and marine projects and all  
work performed wich floating equipment (cranes or  
other equipment operated from scows shall be clas-  
sified as floating equipment). There shall also be  
EXCLUDED from the Agreement work involved in  
che ereccion of structural steel, che driving of steel  
H-piles and precast concrete piles, concrete piles,  
pipe piles, and vertical sand drains, unless such work  
is merely co the work being performed on  
a particular project.  
Section 3. The terms of this Agreement shall apply  
to all work usually and customarily performed by  
Local 4 and its Branches within its craft jurisdiction.  
Part A - Article  
### HOURS  
Section 1. The regular work day shall consisc of  
eight (8) hours, work to stare on a one or two-shift  
operation not earlier than 7 a.m. If the Employer  
decides the starting time is to be 7 a.m. instead of  
8 a.m., he shall continue starting at chat time for at  
least five consecutive work days.  
22  
Section 2. The regular work week shall be forcy (40)  
hours, Monday through Friday, consisting of eight  
(8) hours each day, and said eight (8) hour day shall  
be concluded noc later chan 4:30 p.m.  
Section 3. In case of a two-shift operation, che sec-  
ond shift shall begin no later than one hour after che  
completion of the firse shift, but, in no event, after  
5:30 p.m., and such second shift shall be inclusive  
of a one-half hour lunch period.  
Part A — Article Il  
### OVERTIME  
Section 1. Time and one-half shall be paid all clas-  
sifications for overtime, and double time shall be  
paid for all work on Sundays. Double time shall be  
paid for overtime for work indispensable to any oper-  
acion upon which workers of any other trade then  
working are being paid double time. Double time  
for overtime shall also be paid for the construction  
of bridges over navigable waters where marine con-  
struction equipment can be transported by water  
from outside sources, whether the same be used or  
not.  
Section 2, Overtime shall be computed in one-half  
hour periods, and any fractional part of such period  
shall counc as one-half hour at the premium rate  
except in the case of assistant engineer/apprentices  
who are required to work before starting time or after  
quitting cime, in which case chey shall be paid over-  
time computed in one-quarter hour periods, and any  
23  
fractional part of such period shall count as one-quar-  
cer hour at the premium rate.  
Part A — Article IV  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS  
Section 1. All employees shall be hired and selected  
by che Employer. On jobs where there is no master  
mechanic, the Employer shall notify the Local as  
soon as possible of any additional members who have  
been employed.  
Section 2. The Employer shall furnish, during the  
course of the day’s work, whatever transportation is  
necessary for che carrying out of a work assignment  
on the job site. It is understood the Employer will  
provide either his own vehicle or that of a recognized  
rental company for this purpose. This service shall  
not include transportation to and from the job site  
ac che beginning or end of the day, but neither will  
this prohibit che voluntary providing of such trans-  
porcacion by the Employer.  
Section 3. An employee, furnishing tools to carry  
out a work assignment, shall cause an inventory of  
such tools to be caken by the Employer, and the  
Employer agrees to reimburse such employee for  
tools lost as a result of forced breaking and entering.  
Section 4. In case of emergencies involving delays,  
it is agreed that a maintenance engineer may operate  
a bulldozer, road roller, etc., for a few hours but not  
exceeding a day, and it is further agreed chat in case  
of an equipment breakdown, the operator or crew of  
24  
such equipment may be moved to an idle machine  
on the same job for the remainder of chat day only.  
Section 5. When six or more engineers on a day shift  
in Groups I and II (excluding rollers and spreaders  
when used in an asphalt paving operation, unless  
used with other equipment) of che Wage Schedule  
are employed by an Employer on any one contract  
job, a master mechanic shall be selected by the  
Employer. When there are six (6) to ten (10) such  
engineers, che master mechanic shall work with the  
tools as required by che Employer. When eleven (11)  
or more such engineers are employed, che master  
mechanic shall not work wich the cools except co  
make repairs in an emergency.  
Section 6. In the event that there shall be a second  
and/or chird shift on any job, no mascer mechanic  
shall be required on said shifts, but in place thereof,  
a qualified foreman mechanic shall be employed  
straight time, forty hours, who shall be responsible  
for the equipment under our jurisdiction and shall  
be required to work with tools, if necessary, as  
directed by che Employer.  
Section 7. When three (3) shifts are employed, the  
starting time shall be Monday, 8 a.m., 4 p.m. and  
12 p.m., respectively, and che last shift shall have  
completed a forty (40) hour week by 8 a.m. the fol-  
lowing Saturday. All work between 8 a.m. Saturday  
and 8 a.m. Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of  
time and one-half, and all work between Sunday 8  
a.m. and Monday 8 a.m. shall be paid for at che rate  
25  
of double time, provided it is on a chree-shift oper-  
ation. Each shift shall include one-half hour period  
for lunch.  
Section 8. In the evence of any stoppage of work  
caused by any union or unions, che party of the first  
part may pay off its scraight time employees at the  
end of the work day on which the stoppage occurs  
and will noc have to pay these employees for any  
time during the period of such stoppage. Engineers  
will not be required to go through picket lines.  
Section 9. Daily rate on cruck cranes shall be allow-  
able only between December 1, and March 15 and,  
also, when the Employer rents the same to any other  
person or company.  
Section 10. The Employer shall supply a place on  
the job site for the safekeeping of cools.  
Section 11. An Employer, who requires employees  
to move equipment to any job, location, project, or  
yard, and such assignment causes the employees co  
be without their own vehicle, shall provide che  
employees with back to their own  
vehicle, and shall pay che employees at che premium  
rate when such takes place outside their regular  
working hours.  
Section 12. The servicing and maintenance of  
lighted craffic signs shall be the duty of the main-  
tenance engineer.  
26  
Part A - Article V  
### SHAFTS and TUNNELS  
These provisions are supplementary to cerms and  
provisions set forth elsewhere in chis Agreement.  
Section 1. When cwo (2) shifts are employed on  
shaft and tunnel work, che starting time shall be  
eicher 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. Said shifts shall be concinuous  
and shall be of eight (8) hours duration, each inclu-  
sive of one-half hour lunch period.  
Section 2. It is agreed thac there will be engineers  
employed on shaft hoists during all shifts if any  
employees are working in shafc or cunnel.  
Section 3. There will be an hourly premium on shaft  
and tunnel work for those engineers and assistant  
engineer/apprencices whose normal working assign-  
ments regularly require them co go inco the shaft or  
cunnel. (See attached Schedule of Wages)  
Section 4. When compressed air 1s used, an engineer  
will be assigned to low air equipment.  
Section 5. On jobs bid after January 1, 1999, secure  
change house facilities, equipped with showers, wash  
basins and lockers shall be provided. Travel time on  
the job, availabilicy of a back-up locomotive in the  
tunnel and other safety concerns, as well as other  
matters, will be handled at a pre-job conference.  
Section 6. A qualified master mechanic shall be  
employed when six (6) or more engineers (i.e., ocher  
than assistant engineer/apprentices) are employed on  
any day shift on any one job. In the event chere shall  
27  
   
be a second and/or third shift on any job, no master  
mechanic shall be required on said shifts, but in  
place thereof, a qualified foreman mechanic shall be  
employed, and he/she shall be responsible for the  
equipment under his/her jurisdiction, and shall be  
required cto work wich che cools, if necessary, as  
directed by the Employer.  
Section 7. On jobs bid after January 1, 1999, che  
heading mechanic shall be listed as Group Ic. (See  
attached Schedule of Wages).  
Part A — Article VI  
### SCOPE of AGREEMENT  
Section 1. The Master Document — Parts One, Two  
and Three, together wich Parc A, the section for the  
Labor Relations Division of Construction Industries  
of Massachusetts, expresses the complete understand-  
ing of che parties on the subject of working condi-  
tions, hours of labor, and all other conditions of  
employment, including wages.  
Section 2. In che event chat the parties fail to con-  
Summate an agreement on or before May 31, 2011,  
the Local may exercise its rights permitted by law,  
including the right of work stoppage, notwithstand-  
ing anything to che contrary which may be contained  
in this Agreement.  
Part A — Article VI  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
The invalidity of any provision herein shall noc  
effece the remainder of this Agreement. The parties  
28  
   
   
hereto agree jointly to take such action as may be  
necessary co obtain the approval of the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement by any State or Federal  
Agency which may be required.  
### PART B  
Provisions of the Agreement  
with che  
### FOUNDATION and MARINE  
Contractors Association of New England, Inc.  
This Agreement made this Ist day of June 2008,  
by and between the Foundation and Marine Con-  
tractors Association of New England, Inc., here-  
inafter called che “Association” acting for and in  
behalf of and under che authority of its members and  
any other member joining said Association during  
the term of this Agreement chat it is authorized and  
has agreed to represent, and such other contractors  
who execute an acceptance of the Terms and Provi-  
sions of this Agreement, hereinafter referred to as the  
“Employer” and International Union of Operating  
Engineers Local 4 and its Branches, hereinafter  
referred co as the “Local.”  
Part B — Article |  
### SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT  
The terms of chis Agreement shall apply to all  
operations usually undertaken by the Employer,  
including but noc limited to all construction on  
wharves, piers, oil terminals, coal handling yards,  
bridges, marine structures, cofferdams and founda-  
tions involving che mud slurry process, the handling  
and driving of all piling, including the sheeting and  
bracing in connection with same, and all work per-  
formed with floating equipmenc. Cranes or other  
land equipment operated from scows shall be clas-  
sified as floating equipment.  
If an Employer undertakes work that normally is  
covered by a differenc Agreement, the conditions of  
such Agreement shall apply.  
Part B — Article Il  
### HOURS  
Section 1. Eight (8) hours shall a day's  
work performed between the hours of 8 a.m. and 12  
noon and 12:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday  
through Friday. These hours may be advanced one-  
half ('/2) hour or one (L) hour on a particular project.  
Section 2. The regular work week shall be forty (40)  
hours, Monday Friday, consisting of eight  
(8) hours each day, and said eighc (8) hour day shall  
be concluded not later than 4:30 p.m.  
Section 3. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices may work from | p.m. to 5 p.m., if the majority  
of che trades served on the job so decide.  
Section 4. When two (2) shifts are employed, the  
starting time shall be Monday 8 a.m., Monday 4  
p.m., respectively, and the second shift shall have  
completed a forty (40) hour week by midnight the  
following Friday.  
Section 5. When three (3) shifts are employed, che  
starting time shall be Monday 8 a.m., Monday 4  
p-m., Monday 12 midnight, respectively, and che last  
shift shall have completed a forty (40) hour week by  
8 a.m. the following Saturday. Engineers working  
a  
31  
shifts on the broken time basis shall receive no less  
than eight (8) hours each shift unless ordered on pre-  
vious shift not to report.  
Section 6. When it is necessary to use equipment  
for low water work, the scart of a continuous shift  
may be changed to take advancage of such tides  
without overtime pay except before 6 a.m. and after  
8 p.m. when double time shall be paid. Engineers  
working a.m. cides after 6 a.m. shall work seven (7)  
hour shifts and be paid for eight (8) hours. Engineers  
working p.m. tides shal! work six (6) hours and be  
paid for eight (8) hours.  
Part B — Article Ll  
### OVERTIME  
The first two (2) hours work in excess of eight (8)  
hours per day shall be performed at the rate of time  
and one-half, afrer which double rime shall be paid.  
Work on Saturday shall, also, be performed ac the  
rate of time and one-half for the first eight (8) hours,  
after which double time shall be paid. Double time  
shall, also, be paid for all work performed on Sunday.  
Not withstanding any of the above, double time  
shall be paid for work indispensable to any operation  
upon which workers of any other trade then working  
are being paid double time.  
Part B — Article 1V  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS  
Section 1. crane without leads is used wich  
32  
a sonic or vibratory hammer to install sheecing or  
piles, the rig shall be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator who shall be paid che  
Group Ib. rate.  
(b) An operator ac the Group II rate whose  
duties shall include chose of the assistant engineer.  
Section 2, When a crane with leads (either fixed  
or flying) is used with a diesel hammer to install  
sheeting or piles, the rig shall be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator who shall be paid che  
Group Ib rate.  
(b) An assistant engineer who shall be paid at  
the appropriate Group IV rate.  
(c) If an independent power source is used to  
crip the hammer no additional manning is  
required.  
Section 3. When a crane with leads (either fixed or  
flying) and an auger, not powered by an independ-  
ent power source, is used to install piles, che rig shall  
be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator who shall be paid che  
Group Ib rate. In addition, chis operator shall  
receive a cwo (2) hour wage additive* for each day  
the auger is used, but no less chan five (5) hours  
per week. This wage additive shall apply as long  
as the auger is mounted on or in the leads, regard-  
less of whether or not it is used.  
33  
(b) An engineer who shall be paid at  
the appropriate Group IV race.  
(c) If an independent power source is used to  
crip the hammer no additional manning is  
required.  
Section 4. When a crane with leads (either fixed or  
flying) and an auger powered by an independent  
power source is used to install piles, the rig shall  
be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator who shall be paid the  
Group Ib rate. In addition, this operator shal!  
receive a cwo (2) hour wage additive* for each day  
che auger is used, but no less chan five (5) hours  
per week, This wage additive shall apply as long  
as the auger is mounted on or in che leads, regard-  
less of whether or not it is used.  
(b) An operator at the Group II rate whose  
duties shall include those of an engineer.  
(c) If an independent power source is used to  
trip che hammer no additional manning is  
required.  
Sectron 5. When a crane mounted drill attachment  
(Caldwell type) is used for caisson or drilled shaft  
operations, the rig shall be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator at che Group | rate who  
shall also receive a wage additive* of five (5) hours  
per week.  
(b) An operator at che Group HI rate whose  
duties shall include those of the assiscant engineer.  
34  
*The wage additive shall be calculated at the oper-  
ators base scraight time hourly rate plus che  
Annuicy contribution. No ocher Fringe Benefits  
shall be considered to be part of this premium.  
Ic is considered a wage additive and does not  
reflect hours worked.  
Section 6. If che configuration of the crane is  
changed during the payroll week, the crew shall be  
paid ac che highest applicable rate for chac entire pay  
week,  
Sectron 7. Maintenance engineers’ duties shall  
include the assembling and connecting of wellpoint  
systems, temporary piping, repairing and operation  
of valves controlling air and steam pressure furnished  
from permanent power plant.  
(a) This language shall mean that on a job  
where a maintenance mechanic is in the employ  
of an Employer using plant air or steam, such  
maintenance mechanic shall, among his other  
duties, be assigned to the operation of che plant  
air or steam valve.  
(b) In addition, if no maintenance mechanic is  
employed, but che Employer using che planc air  
has an engineer assigned to a compressor opera-  
tion, then the operation of the air valve shall be  
an additional duty of such engineer, provided such  
plane air is being used to supplement che same  
function as che compressor operation.  
(c) Furthermore, if no maintenance engineer is  
employed, but the Employer using plant sceam  
35  
has in his employ an engineer assigned to a heat-  
ing operation, then the operation of the steam  
valve shall be an additional duty of such engineer,  
provided such plant steam is being used to sup-  
che heating operation.  
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this  
Agreement, a steam valve used only for temporary  
heat need not be manned.  
Section 8. Submersible electric pumps, when used  
in place of a conventional wellpoint system and con-  
nected to a common header on one level and in one  
foundation, shall be manned the same as the well-  
point system.  
Section 9, An engineer or fireman who is required  
by his Employer to care for a boiler on holidays,  
Saturdays and/or Sundays shall receive not less than  
two hours additional pay at double cime rate for each  
run.  
Section 10. Engineers or firemen required to get up  
steam before 8 a.m. shall receive not less than one-  
half hour’s pay at double time.  
Section 11. Assistant engineer/apprentices who are  
required to work before starting time or after quit-  
cing cime shall be paid overtime computed on one-  
quarter hour periods, and any fractional part of such  
period shall count as one-quarter hour at the pre-  
mium rate.  
Section 12. For the purpose of this Agreement, a  
lighter shall be construed to mean a piece of floating  
36  
equipment equipped wich a hoisting engine with  
motive power, a swinger, bilge pump, and a single  
air compressor to be used by che carpenter crew on  
the lighter, such crew to consist of no more than six  
(6) employees and the compressor to be used only in  
the maintenance of the lighter and che boring of  
holes in timber and piles.  
(a) When the hoisting engineer on a derrick  
lighter is unable to operate the swinger engine,  
the engineer shall have an assistant who shall  
receive the wage rate set forch in Group II.  
(b) When a crane is placed on a scow, the min-  
imum crew shall consist of an engineer and assis-  
tant engineer. The assistant engineer shall perform  
duties of an oiler and may operate a bilge pump  
and compressor used to maintain the scow and to  
bore holes in timber and piles, and shall be paid  
at the wage rate as set forth in Group IV.  
Section 13. When a single diaphragm pump is used  
more than two (2) hours in any one day, an engineer  
shall be employed at a minimum of a day.  
Section 14. Single diaphragm pumps and one-bag  
mixers, gasoline or electric power may be grouped  
on job sites as follows:  
(a) Two (2) or three (3) of chese machines, one  
(1) engineer.  
(b) Four (4) or more of these machines, two (2)  
engineers as the conditions require.  
37  
Section 15. Cabs on cranes as well as driver cabs on  
truck cranes shall be equipped with heaters. Shovels,  
cranes, backhoes, gradalls, front end loaders, and  
shovel dozers shall be equipped with heaters. Shelter  
shall be provided for steam boilers. All equipment  
shall be provided with suitable and safe means for  
getcing on and off.  
Section 16. When engineers start to work, they shall  
inquire and be informed whether chey are on straight  
time or daily rate. Employers desiring co change  
engineers from straight time co daily rate, or vice  
versa, shall notify che engineers at the end of their  
regular pay week.  
Section 17. Daily rate on truck cranes shall be  
allowable only when the Employer rents che same to  
any other person or company.  
Section 18. All ordinary repairs on a machine,  
boiler, or mechanical pile driving hammer shall be  
done by the engineer on che machine. In case of an  
equipment breakdown, the operator or crew of such  
equipment may be moved co an idle machine on che  
same job for che remainder of that day only.  
Section 19. Master mechanics, selected by the  
Employer, shall be employed on any job where six  
(6) engineers are employed on any shift. The Master  
mechanic shall noc operate any machine except in  
cases of emergency, or to demonstrate, excepe chat  
when less than eight (8) machines are involved, he  
shal! work with che tools. When chere are eight (8)  
38  
et  
or more machines involved, he shall supervise repairs  
on machines.  
Section 20. On jobs where no master mechanic is  
required, an engineer employed in the operation of  
equipment outlined in Group III may, at the option  
of the Employer, be required cto maintain, service,  
and repair equipment, and in such cases shall receive  
maincenance mechanics wages. The Employer agrees  
to make a sincere effort to take full advantage of chis  
provision for added utilization of Group III  
engineers.  
Section 21. Engineers (except those sect forth in  
Group III, Schedule of Wages) and assistant engi-  
neer/apprentices in the employ of an Employer who  
pays subsistence to any of his workers, shall receive  
subsistence in an amount not less than the greatest  
amount paid by the Employer to any of his workers.  
Section 22. An Employer who requires any employ-  
ees tO Move equipment to any job, location, project,  
or yard, and such assignment causes che employees  
co be without their own vehicle, shall provide the  
employees wich transportation back to cheir own  
vehicles and shall pay them at che premium rate  
when such takes place outside the employee's regular  
working hours.  
Part B — Article V  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  
Section |. The Mascer Document — Parts One, Two  
and Three, together with Part B, the section for the  
39  
Foundation and Marine Contractors Association of  
New England, Inc. expresses the complete under-  
standing of the parties on the subjece of working  
conditions, hours of labor, and all other conditions  
of employment, including wages.  
Section 2. In the event that the parties fail to con-  
summate an agreement on or before May 31, 2011,  
the Local may exercise its rights permicted by law,  
including the right of work stoppage, notwithstand-  
ing anything to the contrary which may be contained  
in chis Agreement.  
Part B -— Article V1  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
The invalidity of any provision herein shall not  
effect the remainder of this Agreement. The parties  
hereto agree jointly to take such action as may be  
necessary co obtain the approval of the cerms and  
conditions of this Agreement by any Stare or Federal  
Agency which may be required.  
40  
### PART C  
Provisions of the Agreements  
with the  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
of the  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
of Massachusetts, Inc.  
and with the  
### BUILDING TRADES  
### EMPLOYERS ASSOCIATION  
of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts, Inc.  
### FOREWORD  
The Agreement between The International Union  
of Operating Engineers Local 4 and ics Branches and  
the Labor Relations Division of the Associated Gen-  
eral Contractors of Massachusetts, Inc., and between  
the Local and the Building Trades Employer Asso-  
ciation of Boston and Eascern Massachusetts, Inc., are  
separace documents but contain identical cerms. For  
purposes of convenience we have herein printed these  
Agreements as a single section.  
Part C — Article!  
### TITLE  
This Agreement made this lst day of June, 2008,  
by and between the LABOR RELATIONS DIVI-  
### SION of the ASSOCIATED GENERAL CON-  
TRACTORS of Massachusetts, Inc., and che  
### BUILDING TRADES EMPLOYERS ASSOCIA-  
TION of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts, Inc.  
4  
hereinafter called the “Association” acting for and in  
behalf of and under the authoricy of ics members and  
any other member joining said Association during  
the term of this Agreement, that it is authorized and  
has agreed to represent, hereinafter referred co as the  
“Employer” and the International Union of Operat-  
ing Engineers Local 4 and its Branches, hereinafter  
referred co as the “Local.” A current list of members  
of the Association, who have so authorized, will be  
furnished the Local upon signature of the Agree-  
ment. The Association shall provide che Local with  
any additions co the list during the term of this  
Agreement. The Local, for good cause, may reject  
any such additions.  
Part C — Article I  
### JURISDICTION  
It is agreed the Local has jurisdiction over hoisting  
and portable engines, boilers, and machinery oper-  
ated by steam or mechanical power, including  
pumps, compressors, syphons, pulsometers, fork lifts,  
concrete mixers, stone crushers, elevators used for  
hoisting material, power driven conveyors, street  
rollers, cold planers, grinders, edyers, reclaimers, all  
power shovels, cranes, scrapers, tractors, bulldozers,  
gradalls, shovel dozers, front end loaders, Jackson  
type campers, self-propelled or tractor drawn tam-  
pers, pumpcrete machines, concrete pumps, concrete  
pavers, screed machines and concrete finishing  
machines, wellpoint systems operating and insctall-  
ing, waste water plants, valves concrolling permanent  
plant air or steam pressure, cableways, orange peel  
42  
t  
and clam shell buckets, pile drivers, dinky locomo-  
tives, work and personnel boats, straddle buggies, cal  
tracks, ballast regulators, switch tampers, and rail  
anchor machines; or any machine used irrespective of  
its MOtive power.  
Part C — Article Ul  
### HOURS  
Section 1. Eight (8) hours shall conscicuce a day’s  
work performed between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and  
12:00 noon and 12:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday  
through Friday. These hours may be advanced one-  
half ('/2) or one (1) hour on a particular project.  
Section 2. The regular work week shall be forty (40)  
hours, Monday Friday, consisting of eight  
(8) hours each day, and said eight (8) hour day shall  
be concluded not later chan 4:30 p.m.  
Section 3. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices may work from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. if che  
majority of the trades served on the job so decide.  
Section 4. When two (2) shifts are employed, the  
starting cime shall be Monday 8:00 a.m., and Mon-  
day 4:00 p.m., respectively, and the second shift shall  
have completed a forty (40) hour week by midnight  
the following Friday.  
Section 5. When chree (3) shifts are employed, the  
starting cime shall be Monday 8:00 a.m., Monday  
4:00 p.m., and Monday 12:00 midnight, respec-  
tively, and che lase shift shall have completed a forty  
(40) hour week by 8:00 a.m. the following Saturday.  
43  
Engineers working shifts on a broken time basis shall  
receive no less than eight (8) hours each shift unless  
ordered on previous shift not to report.  
Part C — Article IV  
### OVERTIME  
The first two (2) hours work in excess of eight (8)  
hours per day shall be performed at the rate of time  
and one-half, after which double cime shall be paid.  
Work on Saturday shall also be performed at the rate  
of cime and one-half for the first eight (8) hours, after  
which double time shall be paid. Double time shall  
also be paid for all work performed on Sunday. Not-  
withstanding any of the above, double time shall be  
paid for work indispensable to any operation upon  
which workers of any other trade then working are  
being paid double time.  
Part C — Article V  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS  
Section |. When it is necessary for a crew to move  
a shovel or crane from one (1) location co another,  
they shall receive not less than the regular rate for  
the number of days required to perform the work,  
but in no case shall they receive less than one (1)  
day’s pay. Traveling time for crews before 8:00 a.m.  
or after 4:30 p.m. shall be paid at che rate of double  
time.  
Section 2. When an engineer starts to work, he/she  
shall inquire and be informed whether he/she is on  
44  
straight time or broken time before the end of the  
first day.  
Section 3. An Employer desiring co change an engi-  
neer from straight co broken time or vice versa shall  
notify the engineer at che end of his/her regular pay  
week.  
Section 4. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices shall be paid before stopping cime on regular  
pay day. In case they are not paid, they shall receive  
single time for waiting for cheir pay.  
Section 5. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, having to come in for their pay, shall receive  
two (2) hours pay for doing so.  
Section 6. An engineer on broken time shall report  
each day unless told on che previous day not co do  
so, and shall receive two (2) hours pay for reporting.  
Such two (2) hours reporcing pay applies only to  
Group III, except to wellpoint system which ts  
straight time.  
Section 7. An engineer on broken time starting  
work in the morning is to receive a minimum of a  
day's pay.  
Section 8. Employers shall furnish suicable shelcer  
to protect engineers from falling material and  
weather.  
Section 9. Ail ordinary repairs on a machine or  
boiler shall be done by the engineer operating same.  
45  
Section 10. Any work required on an engine,  
machine, or boiler shall be done by the regular crew  
thereon, and they shall not be required to operate  
any other machine, engine, or boiler. In case of an  
equipment breakdown involving delay, che operator  
or crew of such equipment may be moved to an idle  
machine on the same job for che remainder of that  
day only.  
Section 11. Each Employer of six (6) or more engi-  
neers (excluding assistant engineers and apprentices)  
on any one (1) shift, on any one (1) job, shall employ  
a qualified master mechanic.  
(a) When che engineer, or the crew, on a rented  
machine remains on the payroll of che owner of  
such machine, said engineer, or crew, shal! be  
counted as chough on the payroll of the Employer  
hiring such machine in determining che obliga-  
tion of the Employer to employ a_ master  
mechanic.  
(b) The master mechanic shall not operate any  
machine except in cases of emergency, or to dem-  
onstrate, except that when less than eight (8)  
machines are involved he/she shall work with che  
cools. When there are eight (8) or more machines  
involved, he/she shall supervise repairs on  
machines.  
Section 12. Maintenance engineers duties shall  
include the installing of wellpoint systems, tempo-  
rary piping, repairs, operating of valves controlling  
46  
air and steam pressure furnished from permanent  
power plant.  
(a) This language shall mean chat on a job  
where a maintenance mechanic is in the employ  
of an Employer using plane air or steam, such  
maintenance mechanic shall, among his other  
duties, be assigned to the operation of che plant  
air or steam valve.  
(b) In addition, if no mechanic is  
employed, buc the Employer using the planc air  
has an engineer assigned to a compressor opera-  
tion, then the operation of the air valve shall be  
an additional duty of such engineer, provided such  
plant air is being used cto supplement the same  
function as the compressor operation.  
(c) Furthermore, if no maintenance engineer is  
employed, buc the Employer using plant steam  
has in his employ an engineer assigned co a heat-  
ing operation then che operation of the steam  
valve shall be an additional duty of such engineer  
provided such plant steam is being used to sup-  
plement che heating operation.  
(d) Notwichstanding any other provisions of  
this Agreement, a steam valve used only for tem-  
porary heat need not be manned.  
Section 13. Submersible electric pumps, when used  
in place of a conventional wellpoint system and con-  
necced to a common header on one (1) level and in  
one (1) foundation, shall be manned the same as the  
wellpoint system.  
47  
Section 14. When a single diaphragm pump is used  
more than two (2) hours in any one (1) day, an eng!-  
neer shal! be employed at a minimum of a day.  
Section 15. Single diaphragm pumps and one-bag  
mixers, gasoline or electric power, may be grouped  
on job sites as follows:  
(a) Two (2) or chree (3) of these machines, one  
(1) engineer.  
(b) Four (4) or more of these machines, rwo (2)  
engineers as the conditions require.  
Section 16. Concrete mixers with side-loading  
equipment, machines with hoisting equipment, cen-  
trifugal pumps, compressors, or mixers over one-bag  
capacity shall not be considered co be under che  
above mentioned group plan.  
Section 17, When an extra machine is attached to a  
machine or boiler, the engineer shall receive ten (10)  
hours additional pay per week when the extra  
machine is on straight cime. When the extra  
machine is on broken time, engineers shall receive  
two (2) hours additional pay per day for each day or  
parc of a day the machine is in operation. An extra  
machine cannot be rated straight time when che  
machine is on broken time. The only machines car-  
rying these races are as follows:  
(a) Concrete mixers, pumps, compressors.  
Section 18. Heaters may be grouped on job site as  
follows:  
(a) One (1) to five (5) heaters, one (1) engineer.  
48  
(b) Every additional multiple of five (5) heaters,  
or parc thereof shall require an additional engineer.  
Section 19. On jobs where no master mechanic is  
required, an engineer employed in che operation of  
equipment outlined in Group III, may at the option  
of the Employer, be required to maintain, service and  
repair equipment and in such case shall receive main-  
tenance wages. The Employer agrees to  
make a sincere effort co take full advantage of this  
provision for added utilization of Group III  
engineers.  
Section 20. An engineer shall be employed during  
the erection of all hoists and derricks co be operated  
by engineers and during both the erection and dis-  
mantling of a cower crane. When the hoisting engine  
is not employed in the of a hoist or  
derrick, no engineer is required during the  
dismantling.  
Section 21. Assiscant engineer/apprencices required  
to work before starting time or after quitting time,  
shall be paid overtime computed in one-quarter ('/4)  
hour periods, and any fractional part of such period  
shall count as one-quarter ('/4) hour ac the premium  
rate.  
Section 22. Cabs on cranes, as well as driver cabs on  
truck cranes, shall be equipped with heacers. All  
equipment shall be provided wich suicable and safe  
means for getting on and off.  
49  
Section 23. Any engineer or assistant engineer (fire-  
man, oiler, or apprentice) required to stay away from  
home over nighc shall be compensated for reasonable  
room and board costs.  
Section 24. Engineers (except those set forch in  
Group ITI, Schedule of Wages) and assistant engi-  
neers (firemen, oilers, or apprentices) employed by an  
Employer who is regularly engaged in specialcy busi-  
ness (such as caisson work, pile driving, or steel erec-  
tion) and which Employer pays subsistence to any of  
his employees shall receive subsistence in an amount  
not less chan the greatest paid by the  
Employer cto any of his employees.  
Section 25. An engineer who is required by his  
Employer, by the Boiler Inspection Laws, or by the  
law, in order co preserve his license, to care for the  
boiler on which he is employed on holidays and Sat-  
urdays and Sundays in cold weather, shall receive not  
less than four (4) hours additional pay for such serv-  
ice ac che rate at which he is employed.  
Section 26. Engineers required to get up steam  
before 8:00 a.m. shall receive one (1) hour's pay at  
the double time rate.  
Section 27. When an extra boiler is required co fur-  
nish steam for a machine, an additional engineer  
shall be employed co take care of it.  
Section 28. A coffee break of reasonable time shall  
be allowed, in che morning, with che understanding  
that one (1) person shall be allowed co get the coffee,  
50  
and the remaining engineers shall not leave the job  
sice. The break shall start when the coffee is brought  
to che job site. This privilege shall not be abused.  
Section 29. Daily rate on truck cranes and cherry  
pickers shall be available only co those Employers  
who are regularly engaged in che rental of such  
equipmenc to any other person or company.  
Part C — Article VI  
### RENTED CRANES, TRUCK CRANES  
### CHERRY PICKERS — TRAVEL and SUBSISTENCE  
Section 1. Operating engineers and assistant engi-  
neers (oilers and apprentices) employed by an  
Employer who is regularly engaged in the business  
of renting cranes, truck cranes, or cherry pickers (or  
similar ctype hoisting equipment) shall receive travel  
or subsistence allowance as follows:  
(a) On any job, location, or project, che  
Employer shall pay daily travel expense at che rate  
of thirty (30) cents per mile, each way, for each  
mile distance beyond twenty (20) miles between  
the job location, or project and the Employer's  
permanent yard.  
(b) An employee who uses his own vehicle as  
an escort vehicle shall be paid travel expenses at  
the rate of eighty-five (85) cents per mile for such  
use. The Milo-Mileage Guide may be used as an  
aid in determining the distances referred to in “a”  
and “b” above. An employee required to stay away  
from home overnight shall be compensated for  
reasonable room and board costs. An Employee  
51  
receiving such subsistence shall not receive mile-  
age except at the scart and end of che job or on  
weekend visits co his home. When such weekend  
mileage is paid, the employee shall not receive  
subsistence for the weekend.  
An employee shall not receive mileage when he  
is traveling on the Employer's equipment.  
(c) An Employer, who requires an employee to  
move equipment to any job location, project, or  
yard and such assignment causes the employee to  
be without his own vehicle, shall provide che  
employee wich transportation back to his own  
vehicle. Such shall be provided at  
the job, location, project, or yard, and when the  
employee is required co wait for such transporta-  
tion beyond the end of his work day, he shall be  
paid overtime in one-half ('/2) hour periods.  
Section 2. Engineers or assistant engineers employed  
on a daily basis shall be employed each day the  
machine on which he is employed is assigned to a  
job. Apprentices, employed in the Truck Crane  
Rental Industry, shall be employed consistence with  
the terms and conditions of their indenture. A  
machine shall be considered assigned to a job on the  
day the machine is dispacched to a job, and for each  
subsequent day che machine is on such job. There-  
after, a machine shall be considered to be unassigned  
to a job when che boom is folded or retracted or:  
(a) It is returned co the Employer's yard.  
52  
(b) It is removed from a job and parked on some  
location other chan a job site.  
(c) Because of unusual traffic conditions, the  
machine is parked on the job cto which it had been  
assiyned.  
(d) The machine is moved to, and parked on,  
another job site and ts to be activated on a day  
subsequent to the day following che day on which  
it is parked on such site.  
(e) When a truck crane of 250 con raced capac-  
ity or more is assigned to a job and, because of its  
size, it is not feasible co remove it from the site,  
thus indicating the termination of the assignment,  
the crew may be paid off in accordance with Arti-  
cle VIII, except that such payment shall be made  
at the daily race.  
Section 3. An Employer desiring to change from  
daily rate to weekly rate, or vice-versa, shall change  
all engineers and assistant engineers in his employ  
accordingly (excluding maintenance mechanics), and  
may not change again for a twelve (12) month  
period.  
Section 4. The regular work day shal! be 7:00 a.m.  
to 3:30 p.m. Employees on equipment assigned to a  
job with an 8:00 a.m. starting time, shall assume che  
8:00 a.m. scarting time beginning on che second day  
and such procedure shali prevail on any subsequent  
return to the same job. All work in excess of eight  
(8) hours per day, and all work performed on Sat-  
33  
urday and Sunday wil! be paid at the rate of double  
time.  
Section 5. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, when ordered out on a Saturday, Sunday or  
Holiday, shall not be bound by the starting times  
defined above, they shall receive a guarantee of eight  
(8) hours work at the premium time rate unless che  
inclement weather clause applies.  
Section 6. In case of an equipment breakdown, che  
operator or crew of such equipment may be moved  
to another piece of equipment to which no operator  
or crew 1s assigned. An Employer wishing cto imple-  
ment this provision must have previously provided  
the Local with a list of machines and the employees  
assigned co such machines.  
Section 7. An employee, when called back to work  
after having completed the regular work day, shall  
be paid overtime for the hours intervening between  
the end of his regular work day and his return to  
work on the same job.  
Section 8. Two (2) days employment in any week  
shall qualify an employee for holiday pay. The  
Employer agrees noc tro manipulate assignments in  
such a way as co disqualify an employee for holiday  
pay.  
Part C — Article VII  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  
The Master Document — Parts One, Two and  
Three, together with Part C che Section for che Labor  
54  
Relations Division of the Associated General Con-  
tractors and the Building Trades Employers Associ-  
ation of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts expresses  
the complete understanding of the parties on che  
subject of working conditions, hours of labor, and all  
other conditions of employment, including wages.  
Part C — Article VII  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
Should any Article or section of these Agreements  
be found to be in violation of any State or Federal  
Law chen chat Article or section shall be null and  
void, buc the rest of the Agreement shall continue  
as a valid Agreement between the parties. However,  
both parties will endeavor, by negotiations, to  
replace such provisions as may be declared null and  
void so as to conform with the law.  
35  
### PART TWO  
### MASTER DOCUMENT  
Part Two — Article XI  
### HEALTH & WELFARE, PENSION,  
### ANNUITY & SAVINGS  
### COOPERATIVE TRUST, APPRENTICE AND  
### CIM INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUNDS  
Section 1. Each Employer who is a party to this  
Agreement agrees to and shall pay and contribute an  
amount equal to chat shown under “Schedule of  
Wages” in this Agreement co the following Funds:  
(a) International Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 Health and Welfare Fund, hereinafter  
referred to as the “Welfare Fund.”  
(b) Incernational Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 Pension Fund, hereinafter referred to as  
the “Pension Fund.”  
(c) International Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 Annuity & Savings 401(k) Fund, herein-  
after referred to as the “Annuity and Savings  
Funds.”  
(d) Hoisting and Portable Engineers Local 4  
Apprentice and Training Program, hereinafter  
referred co as the “Apprentice Program Fund.”  
(e) Incernational Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 Labor Management Cooperative Trust,  
hereinafter referred to as the “Cooperative  
Trust.”  
56  
(f) CIM Industry Advancement Fund, herein-  
after referred to as che “Industry Advancement  
Fund.”  
Each Employer who ts party to this Agreement  
agrees to be bound by the terms of the respective  
Declarations of Trust, and any amendments thereto,  
and designates as its representatives on the Boards of  
Trustees such Trustees as have been designated  
Employer Trustees in the manner provided in che  
Agreements and Declarations of Trust.  
Section 2. The respective rates per hour as shown in  
che “Schedule of Wages” in the Agreemenc shall  
be paid for each payroll hour (with the exception of  
Annuity contributions, an overtime hour for this  
purpose shall be considered a single hour) and pro-  
portionately for each part of such an hour for each  
person covered by this Agreement and employed on  
construction projects on which che Employer shall  
be engaged or otherwise in the hire of che Employer.  
Overtime contributions to che Annuity Fund shall  
be paid at time and one-half for all classifications of  
overtime.  
(a) Upon proper written authorization on a form  
furnished by the Local Union, the Employer may  
withhold from the employee's gross waye before  
any deduction for taxes, an amount as established  
from time co time by the Annuity Trustees, for  
deposit in the Annuity & Savings 401(k) Plan, a  
Retirement Plan intended to qualify under the  
Employee Retirement Income Security Acct of  
1974 (ERISA).  
57  
Section 3. On or before the nineteenth day of each  
month, the said payment shall be due and payable  
for all such payroll periods ending the next preceding  
month; except that in the case of contributions to  
the Annuity and Savings 401(k) Plan the contribu-  
cions shall be due at che date chey are first reasonably  
segragable, buc no later than the nineteenth day of  
the month. In the case of operations of less than a  
month’s duration, or in the case of Employers who  
are repeatedly delinquent in payments, the payment  
shall be due weekly and payable wichin chree (3) days  
after the end of the payroll week.  
Section 4. Payments not received at the Fund  
Office by the last day of the month following the  
month during which the work was performed  
will be assessed interest at the rate of one (1%)  
percent per month, except that interest due on  
late Annuity and Savings Plan 401(k) payments  
shall be assessed in accordance with the rules  
and regulations of the Department of Labor.  
Section 5. The Employer agrees thac the obli-  
gations to make payments shall be on a parity with  
and enforceable, with respect to each Fund, as che  
obligation co pay wayes, and this inclusive of che  
priorities incident to and in proceedings for the relief  
of debtors; and this Article shall bind all legal rep-  
resentatives, successors, and assigns of an Employer.  
Section 6. The Trustees, or represencatives when  
authorized by the Trustees in each case, shall have  
the right to inspect at al] reasonable times, che indi-  
58  
vidual payroll records and such other records of an  
Employer as are deemed necessary and pertinent to  
determine whether such Employer is making due  
and full payment of ics Employer Contributions.  
Section 7. Failure of the Employer co comply with  
this Article or any part thereof may be creaced by  
che Local as a breach of the working agreement  
between the Local and che defaulting Employer; and  
notwithstanding other provisions of this Agreement  
(Arbitration Article XVII, or otherwise to the con-  
trary, immediate work stoppage and use of picket  
lines against such defaulting Employer are permit-  
ted. Any cost, inclusive of legal fees, incurred by the  
Local, or the Funds, in the collection of obligations  
co make payment due the Welfare, Pension, Annuity,  
Annuity & Savings, Cooperative Trust, Industry  
Advancement, and Apprentice Program Funds shall  
be borne by the defaulting Employer.  
Section 8. Notwithstanding any termination or can-  
cellation under this Agreement or otherwise, che  
obligations of this Article and of che several Decla-  
rations of Trust shall be deemed continuous and che  
Health and Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Annuicy  
Fund, Annuity & Savings Fund, Cooperative Trust,  
Industry Advancement and Apprentice Program  
Fund shall not be discontinued pending negotiations  
of a new Agreement.  
Section 9. The Health & Welfare, Pension, Annuity,  
Annuicy & Savings, Cooperative Trust and Appren-  
tice Program Funds shall be respectively adminis-  
ag  
tered by three (3) Trustees appointed and/or elected  
by the Local and three (3) Trustees appointed by che  
Association (unless it shall be mutually agreed to  
decrease the number of Trustees or to consolidate che  
Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Annuity Fund, Annu-  
ity & Savings Fund, Cooperative Trust and Appren-  
tice Program Fund with the Funds respective of  
other similar Funds) under one or more Agreements  
and Declarations of Trust as they are or shall be exe-  
cuted by such Trustees.  
Section 10. The Welfare Fund shall be used for the  
purpose of providing health and welfare benefits for  
employees covered by this Agreement and their  
dependents by means of insurance or otherwise at the  
discretion of the Trustees.  
Section 11, The Pension Fund shall be used for the  
purpose of providing pension benefits for employees  
covered by this Agreement by means of insurance or  
otherwise at the discretion of the Trustees.  
Section 12. The Annuity and Savings Fund shall be  
used for the purpose of providing pension benefits  
for employees covered by this Agreement by means  
of investments, Annuity contracts or otherwise at the  
discretion of the Trustees.  
Section 13. The 401(k) component of the Annuity  
& Savings Fund shall be used co assist the members  
in accaining cheir savings objectives.  
Section 14. The Apprentice Program Fund shall be  
used for the purpose of providing and defraying costs  
of apprenticeship or other craining programs.  
60  
Section 15. The Cooperative Trust shall be used for  
the purposes sec forth in the Trust Agreement estab-  
lishing said Trusc.  
Section 16. An Employer shall have che option of  
contributing or noc concribucing to che Joinc Labor/  
Management Cooperative Trust, che Industry  
Advancement Fund and/or the Foundation For Fair  
Contracting of Massachusetts as provided herein. In  
the event che Employer opts not to contribute to one  
or more of the above named Funds, the amount of  
such contribution shall be added co the hourly wage  
rates contained herein. Each signatory Association  
may exercise this option for its members; non-asso-  
ciation Employers shall exercise this option on an  
individual basis.  
Section 17. From time co time the Building Com-  
mittee, established to provide for increased industry  
requirements, shall determine what  addictonal  
Employer contributions, if any, are required to keep  
the Apprentice Program Fund fiscally sound.  
Part Two — Article XU  
### LIABILITY INSURANCE  
Each Employer shall, wichouc cost to the  
employee, provide Liability Insurance coverage in the  
amount of $300,000 to $500,000 for all employees  
covered by chis Agreement.  
61  
Part Two — Article XII  
### OVERLOADED OR IMPROPERLY  
### REGISTERED VEHICLES  
Section 1. No employee shall be held responsible for  
equipment not properly registered or because a per-  
mit was not obtained under any applicable law or  
regulation or for overloading a vehicle or for oper-  
ating a vehicle or other equipment which 1s over-  
loaded. In any such case, the Employer will assume  
the legal costs involved in the defense of the  
employee and shall pay any fines or other assessments  
levied against the employee. The Employer shall  
reimburse the employee for any working time lost in  
connection with any such proceeding.  
Section 2. In the event the employee's operating  
license is suspended for reasons stated herein, che  
Employer shall be liable for the work opportunity  
lost at no less than his regular earnings.  
Part Two — Article XIV  
### DUES DEDUCTION  
Section 1, It is agreed chat che Employer shall  
deduct one and three quarters (1°/4%) percent of the  
gross wage and benefit package before any deduction  
for taxes, provided the employee has executed a writ-  
ten authorization for such deduction. All such deduc-  
tions shall be reported monthly on one form along  
with all che other Funds provided for in the Agree-  
menc. One check covering the coral of all the Funds  
shall be sent along with the one (1) form in accor-  
dance with the provisions of Article XJ.  
62  
Section 2. \t shall be che sole responsibility of the  
Local to procure, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-  
tion 302 (c) of the Labor Management Relations Act  
of 1947, the signed individual authorization of every  
employee subject to this Agreemenc, both present  
and future. The Local shall indemnify and hold  
harmless the Employer from any claims arising under  
this Article including the furnishing of counsel to  
defend against any such actions.  
Part Two — Article XV  
### SOCIAL and POLITICAL ACTION  
### COMMITTEES  
Section 1. The Social and Political Action Commitc-  
tee’s (SAC/PAC) Funds, administered by the Local  
shall be funded by a five (5) cents per hour  
payroll deduction, the purpose of which shall be to  
enable the Local co participate more fully in matters  
affecting the welfare of its members. It is agreed that  
che Employer shall deduct five (5) cents from gross  
wages before any deduction for taxes for each payroll  
hour as defined in Article XI, provided che employee  
has executed a wriccen auchorizacion for such deduc-  
tion. All such deductions shall be reported monthly  
on one form along with all the other Funds provided  
for in the Agreement. One check covering the coral  
of all che Funds shall be sence along with the one  
form in accordance with the provisions of Article XI.  
Section 2. Ic shall be che sole responsibility of che  
Local to procure, pursuant to che provisions of Sec-  
tion 302 (c) of the Labor Management Relations Act  
63  
of 1947, the signed individual authorization of every  
employee subjece ro this Agreement, boch present  
and future. The Local shall indemnify and hold  
harmless the Employer from any claims arising under  
this Article including the furnishing of counsel co  
defend against any such actions.  
Part Two — Article XVI  
### FOUNDATION FOR FAIR CONTRACTING and  
### CIM INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUND  
Each Employer who is parcy to this Agreement  
agrees to and shall pay and contribute cwo (2) cents  
per hour on behalf of the Foundation for Fair Con-  
tracting. All such payments and concributions shall  
be reported monthly on one (1) form along with the  
contributions due the LMCT. The Local reserves the  
righe ac each subsequent May 31, to give adequate  
notice of its withdrawal from the Foundation for Fair  
Contracting, and the right to use these funds to  
establish an in-house prevailing wage enforcement  
and monitoring program.  
Each Employer subscribes to and agrees to be  
bound by the CIM Industry Advancement Program  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust and any amend-  
ments thereto and ratifies and approves all actions of  
the Trustees wichin the scope of said Agreement. The  
Industry Fund shall be administered  
solely and exclusively by Trustees appointed pursu-  
ant to the provisions of the Trust instrument.  
In che event that che Union has reasonable cause  
to believe chat the Industry Advancement Fund is  
64  
being used for any of the purposes prohibited by chis  
Agreement, the dispute shall be subject to che arbi-  
tration provisions of this Agreement.  
Each Employer who is party to this Agreement  
agrees to and shall pay and contribute five (5) cents  
per hour on behalf of the Industry Advancement  
Fund. All such payments and contributions shall be  
included in the contributions due the LMCT.  
Part Two — Article XVII  
### ARBITRATION  
Section 1. In case of any including che dis-  
charge of an employee, between an employee and the  
Employer, or any misunderstanding in the interpre-  
tation of chis Agreement, the matter shall be referred  
to the Employer and Business Agent of che Local,  
and che matter shall, failing be adjusted  
as hereinafter provided.  
Section 2. It is agreed that a Joint Board of Inter-  
composed of two (2) members of the Local  
and two (2) members appointed by the Association  
shall be established, to whom shall be referred any  
dispute arising over che interpretation of this Agree-  
ment, and the decision of such Board shall be final.  
The Board shall make its decision within sevency-  
two (72) hours. In che evenc of the failure of the  
Joint Board of Interpretation to arrive at a solution,  
an Umpire shall be chosen by them. If the parties  
are unable to agree upon an Umpire, che matter shall  
be referred to the American Arbitration Association.  
The decision of the Umpire shall be final.  
65  
Section 3. The parties agree chat said Umpire shall  
have no power to alter, amend, or modify any of che  
expressed provisions of this Agreement.  
Section 4. The parties hereto agree chat there shall  
be no suspension of work or establishment of picket  
lines during the time any dispute shall exisce unless  
the Employer refuses to agree to arbitration or fails  
to comply with che arbitracion award.  
Section 5. The parties recognize thar there is a vol-  
untary Plan for the Sectlement of Jurisdictional Dis-  
putes in the Construction Industry. The parties  
hereto agree to abide by and conform to all rules and  
decisions of the Plan.  
Part Two — Article XVIII  
### SEVERAL LIABILITY  
The obligation of each Employer member of the  
Association shall be several and not joint. Each  
Employer member is bound for the duration of this  
Agreement.  
Part Two — Article XIX  
### BONDING  
Section 1. The Employer may, at the discretion of  
the Business Manager, be required co provide a sur-  
ety bond to guarantee payment to the Health & Wel-  
fare, Pension, Annuity, Annuity & Savings,  
Cooperative Trust and Apprenticeship and Training  
Funds as well as payment of dues and Social and  
Political Action Committees payroll deductions  
under any one of the following circumstances:  
66  
(a) An Employer with no prior his-  
tory to the I1.U.O.E. Local 4 Fringe Benefit Funds.  
(b) An Employer who becomes sixty (60) days  
or more delinquent in submitting payment of con-  
tributions due.  
Section 2. An Employer who is required to furnish  
a bond under chis Article will be released from its  
obligation after a twelve (12) consecutive month  
period during which it was not delinquent in its  
contributions.  
Section 3. Copies of the bond and/or renewal certif-  
icate from the bonding company indicating the bond  
has been purchased and paid for by the Employer  
must be furnished co the Local or Fringe Benefit  
Office.  
Section 4. The amount of bond shall be six (6) times  
the estimated monthly total buc not  
less chan $25,000.  
Section 5. Whenever an Employer is over one (1)  
month in default of payment to the Health & Wel-  
fare, Pension, Annuity, Annuity & Savings, Appren-  
ticeship and Training Funds or Cooperative Trust, or  
payment of Dues and SAC/PAC payroll deductions,  
and reasonable notice of such defaule is given to the  
Employer, the Local may remove its members from  
the work of said Employer, all other provisions of  
this Agreement nocwithscanding.  
(a) If such members as are removed remain on  
the work site during che regular working hours,  
67  
they shall be paid for the lost time, not to exceed  
three (3) day’s pay.  
Section 6. The Trustees may at their discretion,  
require any Employer who becomes sixty (60) days  
or more delinquent in its contributions co make  
weekly reports and payments of contributions.  
Part Two — Article XX  
### DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION  
### and DETECTION  
The parties recognize the problems which drug  
abuse have created in the construction industry and  
the need to develop drug abuse prevention programs.  
Accordingly, the parties agree that in order to  
enhance che of the work place and to maintain  
a drug free work environment, individual Employers  
may require applicancs or employees co undergo drug  
screening. The parties agree chat if a screening pro-  
gram is implemented by an individual Employer, the  
following items have been agreed upon by Labor and  
Management:  
Section 1. It is understood that the use, possession,  
transfer, or sale of illegal drugs, narcotics, or other  
unlawful substances is absolutely prohibited while  
employees are on che job premises or  
while working on any site in connection with work  
performed under the applicable agreement.  
Section 2. All applicants or newly hired employees  
will undergo a drug screen at a facility agreed upon  
by the Employer and the Local. The Employer agrees  
68  
to pay each applicane or employee who cakes and  
passes the drug screen test for all che time it cakes  
co undergo the drug screen up to a maximum of two  
hours travel time plus lab time. This paragraph shall  
not apply to applicancs who have worked for the  
employer wichin che prior 18 months of the date of  
application for re-employment.  
Section 3. Applicants not passing the drug screen  
will not be placed on the Employer's payroll or  
receive any compensation. Employees not passing the  
drug screen will be removed from che Employer’s  
payroll. The Employer agrees to pay the cost for  
adminiscering che drug screen.  
Section 4. The Employer may require that an  
employee be tested for drugs where the Employer  
has reasonable cause to believe chat the employee is  
impaired from performing his/her job. Observation  
must be made by at least two (2) persons, one of  
whom may be a Local Union employee. This provi-  
sion shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner.  
Supervisors will administer the program in a fair and  
confidencial manner. For employees who refuse to  
take a test where the prerequisites sec forth in this  
paragraph have been met, there will be a rebuctable  
presumption that the test result would have been  
positive for an unlawful substance.  
Section 5. An Employer may require thac an  
employee who contributed to an accident be tested  
for drugs where the Employer has reasonable cause  
to believe that the accident resulted from drug usage.  
69  
Section 6. No later than June 1, 2009, each  
Employer signatory to this Agreement musc have  
adopted and implemented a drug/alcohol testing  
program, which will include a provision for random  
drug testing, and will be otherwise similar to the  
Substance Abuse Program currently in effect at the  
Harvard University Project Labor Agreement (on file  
at the Union Hall Office) for major construction,  
renovation and rehabilication. Any dispute as to  
whether a specific Employer’s program is  
tially similar to the aforesaid Harvard University  
program, as well as any other dispute concerning the  
Employer's adoption and implementation of its pro-  
gram, shall be subject to the Grievance and Arbitra-  
tion provisions of this Agreement. Adherence to che  
procedures set forth in che Harvard University Pro-  
gram shall insticute compliance with Section 8 of  
this Arcicle.  
Section 7. Ic is understood that che unsafe use of  
prescribed medication, or where the use of prescribed  
medication impairs che employee’s abilicy to perform  
work, is a basis for removal.  
Section 8. A sufficient amount of a sample shall be  
taken co allow for an initial test and a confirmation  
test. The initial test will be by Enzyme Multiplied  
Immunoassay Technique (EMIT). In the event a  
question or positive results arises from che initial  
test, a confirmation test must be utilized before final  
action can be caken against the employee or appli-  
cant. The parties recognize that in most cases the  
70  
Employer will not be aware of any positive resules  
arising from an initial test uncil after the results of  
the confirmation tesc are made known; however  
should the employee be suspended based on any ini-  
cial test results and che confirmation cest indicates  
that the initial test was erroneous and the confir-  
mation test is negative, che employee shall be rein-  
stated with all lost earnings. The confirmation test  
will be by Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry  
(GC/MS). Testing scandards for both the inicial test  
and confirmation test will be chose established by  
the National Insticute of Drug Abuse. Confirmed  
positive samples will be retained by che testing lab-  
oratory in secured long-term frozen storage for a  
minimum of one year. Handling and cransportation  
of each sample must be documented through strict  
chain of custody procedures.  
Section 9, Present employees, if tested positive, shall  
have the prerogative for a rehabilitation program at  
the employee’s expense. When such program has  
been successfully completed, the Employer shall not  
discriminate in any way againsce the employee. If  
work for which the employee is qualified exists, he  
or she shall be  
Section 10. Any dispute which arises under this  
drug policy shall be submitted to the grievance and  
arbitration procedure set forth in the applicable  
Agreement.  
Section 11. In che event an individual Employer is  
required, as a condition of contract award, to abide  
  
by the terms and conditions of an owner’s drug pol-  
icy, the Employer will notify the interested unions  
in writing prior to implementing such policy.  
Section 12. The or operation of this  
policy shall noc curtail any right of an employee  
found in any law, rule, or regulation. Should any part  
of this policy be found unlawful by a court of com-  
petent jurisdiction or a public agency having juris-  
diction over the parties, the remaining portions of  
the policy shall be unaffected and the parties shall  
enter negotiations to replace the affected provision.  
Section 13. The Employer shall indemnify and hold  
the Local harmless againsec any and all claims,  
demands, suits or liabilities chat may arise solely out  
of the Employer's application of the Substance Abuse  
Program.  
Part Two — Article XX1  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
The parties recognize the threat of unfair compe-  
cition in certain areas and types of work, from con-  
tractors who do not conform co the standards  
provided in che Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
Therefore, within five (5) days of the advertising date  
of any job that comes within the above category, the  
Employer may request a pre-bid conference for the  
purpose of analyzing any difficulcies which he may  
have in bidding said job. It is expressly understood  
that no modification or deviation may be made from  
the existing Collective Bargaining Agreement except  
by mutual agreement of the parties. Ic is further  
72  
understood chat no matter arising hereunder shall be  
subject co arbitration. It is the intent of the parties  
thac this procedure will be utilized in unusual cir-  
cumstances and that the Employer will not invoke  
this procedure except in such circumstances.  
Part Two — Article XXII  
### WORKERS’ COMPENSATION  
During the life of this Contract, and by mutual  
agreement, the parties may meet to confer concern-  
ing the establishment of a collectively bargained dis-  
pute resolution system or other obligations and  
procedures as authorized by G.L. ¢.152, 10B and  
10C. Neither party may be compelled co bargain  
concerning these subjects during che term of this  
Agreement, agree on a system, obligation or proce-  
dure, or unilaterally impose the systems, obligations,  
or procedures. If an agreemenc is reached, thac agree-  
ment shall include the effective date of rhe systems,  
obligations or procedures.  
Part Two — Article XXIII  
### TERMINATION  
The terms and conditions of the Agreements between the  
Labor Relations Division — Construction Industries of  
Massachusetts, the Foundation & Marine Contractors  
Association of New England, Inc., the Building Trades  
Employers Association of Boston and Eastern Massachu-  
setts, the Labor Relations Diviston of the Associated Gen-  
eral Contractors of Massachusetts, Inc, and the  
International Union of Operating Engineers Local 4 and  
its Branches, effective June 1, 2008. shall continue to and  
73  
include May 31, 2011. These Agreements shall continue  
to be effective from year to year thereafter unless either party  
to an Agreement, at least sixty (60) days prior to May  
31, 2011, or prior to May 31st in any year thereafter  
gives notice in writing to the other party of its intention to  
terminate said Agreement and request that negotiations be  
entered into for its alteration or amendment.  
In the event that the parties hereto cannot reach an agree-  
ment at least thirty (30) days prior to May 31st of any  
year, such party shall give notice of the failure to reach  
such agreement to the Federal Mediation Service and the  
Massachusetts Board of Conciliation and Arbitration.  
74  
### FOR THE EMPLOYERS  
The Labor Relations Division  
Construction Industries of Massachusetts, Inc.  
The Foundation & Marine  
Contractors Association of New England, Inc.  
The Building Trades Employers  
Association of Boston and  
Eastern Massachusetts, Inc.  
The Labor Relations Division  
Associated General Contractors of  
Massachusetts, Inc.  
### FOR THE UNION  
Louis G. Rasetta, Business Manager  
William D. McLaughlin, President  
Thomas J. McCormack, Recording Secretary  
Business Representatives  
Kevin P. Bennett  
Michael J. Bowes  
Paul C. DiMinico  
David F. Fantini  
Christopher T. Fogarty  
Rodney A. Gillespie  
Organizers  
John J. Gaffny, Jr.  
David F. Shea, Jr.  
75  
### WITNESS  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto  
have caused these presents to be signed by  
their duly authorized representatives and have  
affixed hereto the seals of their respective  
organizations, the day and year first above  
written.  
### FOR THE LABOR RELATIONS FOR THE UNION  
### DIVISION CONSTRUCTION  
### INDUSTRIES OF  
### MASSACHUSETTS  
### JOHN D. O'REILLY. Hi LOUIS G. RASETTA  
By: Business Manager  
### COUNSEL, WILLIAM D. McLAUGHLIN  
Title: President  
July 48, 2008 THOMAS J. McCORMACK  
Dace: Recording Secretary  
July 14, 2008  
Dace:  
### FOUNDATION &  
### MARINE  
### CONTRACTORS  
### ASSOCIATION  
### OF NEW ENGLAND  
### JOHN S. DAVAGIAN, II. ESQ.  
By:  
### COUNSEL  
Title:  
July 14, 2008  
Date:  
76  
### WITNESS  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto  
have caused these presents to be signed by  
their duly authorized representatives and have  
affixed hereto the seals of their respective  
organizations, the day and year first above  
written.  
### FOR THE BUILDING TRADES FOR THE UNION  
### EMPLOYERS ASSOCIATION  
### OF BOSTON AND  
### EASTERN MASSACHUSETTS  
### THOMAS J. GUNNING LOUIS G. RASETTA  
By: Business Manager  
### EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR WILLIAM D. McLAUGHLIN  
Title: President  
July 14, 2008 THOMAS J. MceCORMACK  
Date: Recording Secretary  
July 14, 2008  
Date:  
### FOR THE LABOR  
### RELATIONS DIVISION OF  
### THE ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF MASSACHUSETTS  
### DAVID P. POWELL  
By:  
### DIRECTOR OF  
### LABOR RELATIONS  
Title:  
July 14, 2008  
Date:  
77  
82  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION of OPERATING ENGINEERS — LOCAL #4  
Wage Settlement June 1, 2008 — May 31, 2011  
### WAGE SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE 06/01/08  
   
   
### MASSACHUSETTS  
Classification 6/1/08 * 12/1/08 *6N/09 *12/1/10  
GROUP | $36.86 $37.84 $38.95 $40.07 $41.32 $42.57  
Daily Rate (Per Hour) 42.37 43.47 44.74 46.00 47.42 48.84  
GROUP Ia (Boom length)  
Over 150 feet $ 1.91 $ 1.95 $ 1.99 $ 2.03 $ 2.07 $ 2.12  
Over 185 feet 3.36 3.42 3.48 3.55 3.63 3.72  
Over 210 feet 4.72 4.80 4.90 5.00 5.11 5.23  
Over 250 feer 7.15 7.28 7.42 7.57 7.74 7.92  
Over 295 feec 9.91 10.08 10.29 10.49 10.73 10.97  
Over 350 feet 11.53 11.73 11.96 12.20 12.48 12.76  
GROUP Ib $42.37 $43.47 $44.74 $46.00 $47.42 $48.84  
GROUP Ic $37.86 $38.84 $39.95 $41.07 $42.32 $43.57  
GROUP II $36.56 $37.52 $38.63 $39.73 $40.97 $42.22  
GROUP III $27.07 $27.79 $28.61 $29.43 $30.35 $31.28  
6L  
Classification  
### GROUP I1V  
a. Fireman  
b. Ocher than TC/Gradall  
c. TC or Gradall  
d. Daily Rate (TC)  
e. Scow Rate  
Daily Rate Differential  
### GROUP II  
### GROUP III  
Tunnel Differential  
Healch & Welfare  
Pension  
Apprenciceship  
Annuicy  
Labor Management Cooperative  
Trust  
### OTHER:  
6/1/08  
$31.54  
21.41  
24.15  
26.85  
26.71  
S 3.72  
$ 2.35  
$ 2.89  
8.80  
6.75  
0.70  
3.00  
0.53  
*12/1/08  
$32.37  
21.98  
24.80  
27.57  
27.42  
$ 3.79  
$ 2.39  
$ 2.94  
8.80  
6.75  
0.70  
3.00  
0.53  
*6/1/09  
$33.32  
22.63  
25.53  
28.38  
28.23  
$ 3.87  
$ 2.44  
$ 3.00  
8.80  
6.75  
0.70  
3.00  
0.53  
* Dues Assessment: 1°/49¢ deducted from total Wage and Benefit Package.  
* Social and Political Action Commitcrees, $0.05 per hour.  
*The Local may, at its option, utilize parts of these increments for increases to Health & Welfare, Pension, Annuity, Social and  
Political Action Committees, Dues Deduction and the Foundation for Fair Concracting.  
* Of the 53 cents payable co LMCT, 2 cents will be remitced to the Foundation for Fair Contracting, and 5 cents will be remitted  
co che Industry Advancement Fund.  
  
$34.28  
23:29  
26.26  
29.20  
29.04  
$ 3.94  
$ 2.49  
$ 3.06  
8.80  
6.75  
0.70  
3.00  
0.53  
*6/L/10  
   
$35.35  
24.02  
27.09  
30.11  
29.95  
$ 4.03  
$ 2.54  
$ 3.13  
8.80  
6.75  
0.70  
3,00  
0.53  
   
  
$36.43  
24.76  
27.92  
31.03  
30.86  
$ 4.12  
$ 2.60  
$ 3.20  
8.80  
6.75  
0.70  
3.00  
0.53  
* HAZARDOUS WASTE: Engineers required to work in the HOT ZONE will receive a $2.00 an hour wage differential.  
08  
### GROUP I**  
Alpine Miners  
Asphalt Plane on site  
Augers & Lo-Drills  
Backhoes (Excavators)  
Bobcats when used as  
Fronce End Loaders  
Boring Machines  
Cable Ways  
Cement Concrete Pavers  
Cherry Pickers  
Concrete Batching and/or  
Mixing Plancs on site  
Cranes  
Crusher Plants on site  
Derrick Boats  
Derricks  
Draglines  
Elevating Graders  
Elevator Towers  
Fork Lifts  
Front End Loaders  
Gradalls  
Hoisting Engines  
Hoists  
Lighters  
Daily Rate: (per hour), Same as Group Ib.  
Truck Cranes  
Fork Lifts  
Cherry Pickers  
Mechanical Hoist  
Pavement Breakers  
Micro-Tunneling  
Boring Machines  
Mucking Machines  
Paving Concrete Mixers  
Pile Drivers  
Post Hole Diggers  
Post Hole Hammers  
Power Shovels  
Pumpcrete Machines  
Road Headers  
Rotary Drills  
Combination Hoe/Loader (Case 580 type machine)  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
Hoists  
Shovel Dozers  
Shovels  
Soi] Mix Machines  
Steam Engines  
Three Drum Machines  
Timber Jacks  
Trench Hoes  
Trenching Machines  
Truck Cranes  
Two or more Drum Machines  
Uke Loaders  
Waste Warer Plants  
18  
   
GROUP la (Boom Lengths)  
Hourly added wages for boom (including jib)  
Over 150 feet  
Over 185 feet  
Over 210 feet See Attached Schedule of Wages  
Over 250 feet  
Over 295 feet  
Over 350 feet  
These rates are applicable to cranes on roof or similar elevated positions. Engineers receiving any of  
the above wage races shall be paid such rate for che full payroll period, even though the boom is  
shortened. (See Part One, Article VII, Sections 11, and 12).  
### GROUP Ib**  
Master Mechanics  
Foreman Mechanics  
### GROUP Ic**  
Conventional (cable concrolled) Clam Shell and Slurry Buckets  
Heading Mechanics  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
c8  
### GROUP II**  
Asphalc Pavers  
Ballast Regulators  
Bobcats when used as Bulldozers  
Bulldozers  
Cal Tracks  
Cold Planers  
Concrete Mixers with side loaders  
Concrete Pumps  
Directtonal Drilling Machines  
Edgers  
Graders  
Grinders  
Grouc Pumps  
John Henrys  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
Locomotives or machines used  
in place thereof  
Mechanics, Maintenance  
Mulching Machines  
Paving Concrete Finishing  
Machines  
Paving Screed Machines  
Portable Steam Boilers  
Portable Steam Generators  
Rail Anchor Machines  
Reclaimers  
Asphalc Rollers  
Scrapers  
Sonic or Vibratory Hammers  
Spreaders  
Stationary Steam Boilers  
Swinger Engines  
Switch Tampers  
Tampers, Self-propelled or  
Tractor Drawn  
Tandem Scrapers  
Tire Trucks (when operated by  
Employer on job site)  
Track Mounted, Self-Unloading  
Material Movers (with dozer blade)  
Traccors  
York Rakes  
¢8  
   
### GROUP  
Augers-Powered by Heaters (power driven) (1-5)  
independent engines and Hydraulic Saws  
attached to Pile Drivers Industrial Fork Lifts/  
Compressors Chisel Trucks  
Concrete Mixers (hoiscing not over 9 feec)  
Concrete Vibrators Jackson Type Tampers  
Conveyors Lighting Plants  
Generacors Pump(s) (1-3 grouped)  
**See Accached Schedule of Wages  
Single Diaphragm Pumps  
Syphons-Pulsometers  
Track Mounted, Self-Unloading  
Material Movers  
Valves Controlling Plant  
Air Steam  
Vibratory Compactor Rollers  
Welding Machines(s) (1-3 grouped)  
Wellpoinc Systems (operating)  
### YS  
GROUP IV** Assistant Engineer  
a. Assistant Enyineer:  
b. Assistant Engineer:  
c. Assistance Engineer:  
d. Assistant Engineer:  
e. Scow Rate  
Fireman  
Apprentices (other than Truck Cranes or Gradal!s)  
Apprentices (on Truck Cranes or Gradalls)  
Daily Rate (Truck Cranes)  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
* Machines grouped shall be within 200 feet.  
* Any machine not expressly mentioned in the schedule shall be included in the appropriate grouping.  
* High Speed Electric Conveyors, (See Part One 1, Article VII, Section 3.  
* HELICOPTERS: Whenever a helicopter is used in hoisting and lifting, ic shall be manned by a  
member of the Local at a race to be established, if and when such type of operation is instituted.  
* HAZARDOUS WASTE: Engineers required co work in che HOT ZONE will receive a $2.00 an  
hour wage differential.  
   
### INDEX  
Part Article Section Page  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS ..... C 4|  
### BUILDING TRADES  
### EMPLOYERS  
ASSOCIATION ....... C 4]  
### CONSTRUCTION  
### INDUSTRY of  
### MASSACHUSETTS .... A 21  
### FOUNDATION and  
### MARINE  
### CONTRACTORS ..... B 30  
### APPRENTICESHIP ...... One Vi 8  
Classification ......... One VI 4 9  
Crane Rental Industry ... One VI 7 10  
Fringe Benefit Plans .... One VI 5 10  
Graduate Apprentices... . One VI 7 10  
Hoisting Machines ..... One VI 1&6 8&10  
Lay OW ams wm: One VI 2 9  
Probationary ......... One VI 5 10  
One VI l 8  
Step Rate One VI 4 9  
Transfers ............ One VI 8 11  
ARBITRATION ........ Two XVII 65  
American Arbitration  
Association. ........ Two XVII 2 65  
Board of Interpretation... Two = XVII 2 65  
Plan for Setclemene ... . . Two XVII! 5 66  
Umpire ............ Two XVII 3 66  
AUGERS ............. B IV 3 33  
85  
### BENEFIT FUNDS .......  
Annuity Fund ........  
Apprentice  
Cooperative Trust ......  
Industry Advancement  
Fund ............  
Pension Fund .........  
Welfare Fund .........  
40l(k) Fund .........  
### BOILER INSPECTION  
LAWS .............  
### BOOM LENGTHS  
Computing ..........  
Roofs/Elevated Positions . .  
Luffing Booms ........  
Tower Cranes .........  
### BUILDING COMMITTEE . .  
CABS ...............  
CAISSONS ............  
### CHANGING FACILITIES . .  
soe we oe ee we eee  
CLAM SHELLS .........  
### COFFEE BREAKS .......  
### COMPRESSORS ........  
CONVEYORS .........  
### CRANE CAPACITY ......  
### CRANE CERTIFICATION . .  
### DAILY RATE on  
### TRUCK CRANES  
AGC/BTEA ..........  
GIM 5 eas et ee eee  
Article  
### XI  
### XI  
### XI  
### XI  
   
### XI  
### XI  
### XI  
### XI  
Vv  
Vil  
Vil  
Vil  
Vil  
### XI  
Vil  
### IV  
Vil  
### VII  
### VI  
Vil  
### VII  
Section  
12  
14  
15-16  
16  
11  
10  
13  
25  
ll  
12  
ll  
11  
17  
5  
5  
20  
17  
Page  
56  
60  
60  
61  
61  
60  
60  
60  
50  
14  
14  
14  
14  
61  
13  
34  
16  
27  
15  
14  
30  
15  
12  
7  
### DELINQUENT FRINGE  
PAYMENTS .........  
### DISCRIMINATION ......  
### DRILL SHAFT  
OPERATIONS «04 665 «>  
### DRILL ATTACHMENTS .. .  
### DUES DEDUCTION .....  
### EMPLOYEE  
### TRANSPORTATION 5  
EQUIPMENT ..........  
Assembly ...........,  
Breakdown ..........  
Erection ............  
Fabrication ..........  
Maintenance .........  
Moving ............  
Moving (Providing  
Transportation) — CIM  
Moving (Providing  
Transportation) — FMC  
Repair  
Welding  
### ERECTION OF  
EQUIPMENT ........  
### ESCORT VEHICLES .....  
### EXTRA MACHINE ......  
### FANS, SUMMER &  
WINTER ...........  
Part  
87  
Article  
   
Xl  
Il  
### VII  
Section  
—_— tN  
_  
ool  
Page  
58  
3  
34  
34  
62  
39  
13  
13  
24  
38  
46  
13  
13  
13  
13  
FIREMAN ............ B  
chm eT me C  
### FLOATING EQUIPMENT .. B  
### FOREMAN MECHANIC A  
Working With Tools .... A  
### FORTY (40) HOUR  
GUARANTEE ........ One  
### FOUNDATION FOR FAIR  
### CONTRACTING ...... Two  
### FOUNDATION FOR FAIR  
### CONTRACTING and CIM  
### INDUSTRY  
### ADVANCEMENT ..... Two  
### GREASE TRUCKS ...... One  
HARMONY ........... One  
### HAZMAT CLEANUPS .... One  
### HEADING MECHANICS .. A  
### HEATERS  
Grouped .........-.. C  
On Equipment ........ One  
### B  
seth BMS Cc  
Power One  
HIGH WINDS ......... One  
### HOISTING MACHINES ... One  
Apprentice Engineers .... One  
Apprencice Ratio ...... One  
Engineer Only ........ One  
HOLIDAYS ........... One  
### HOURS  
AGC/BTEA .......... C  
Rented .... C  
### CIM A  
### FMC B  
88  
Article  
### IV  
Vv  
### IV  
### IV  
### IV  
   
### VI  
Xl  
### XVI  
### VII  
Vil  
### VII  
### IV  
### VII  
Xx  
### VI  
### VI  
### IV  
### HI  
### VI  
### II  
I]  
Section  
9&10  
23  
12  
6  
6  
### Wo ON  
  
Page  
36  
50  
36  
25  
25  
16  
61  
64  
  
13  
15  
28  
Part  
### INCLEMENT WEATHER .. One  
### INDIVIDUAL  
EXCAVATORS ....... One  
### INDUSTRIAL FORK LIFTS One  
### INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT  
FUND ............. Two  
### JURISDICTIONAL  
### DISPUTE PLAN ...... Two  
LEADS .............. B  
### LIABILITY INSURANCE .. Two  
LIGHTERS ........... B  
LOGKOUTS «cai sei wasn One  
### LOW WATER WORK .... B  
### MAINTENANCE  
ENGINEERS ......... B  
Lighted Traffic Signs .... A  
Wellpoint Systems ..... C  
### MASTER MECHANICS  
Not Required -CIM.... A  
Not Required - FMC ... B  
Operating ........... C  
Shife Work A  
With Six or More  
«une ees was A  
With Six or More  
### B  
Wich Six or More  
Cc  
### MATERIAL MOVERS .... One  
### MEMBERSHIP  
### REQUIREMENTS ..... One  
### MEMORANDUM OF  
AGREEMENT ........ Two  
Article  
xX  
   
Vv  
### VII  
### XVI  
### XVII  
### IV  
### XI]  
### IV  
### I  
tl  
Section  
1-3  
20  
  
6  
1 |  
16  
Page  
19-20  
32-34  
35  
26  
46  
24  
39  
46  
25  
38  
46  
15  
72  
Part  
### NEW EQUIPMENT ..... One  
OFF SHIFT ........... One  
Lee eee One  
ee A  
### ORDINARY REPAIRS .... C  
### OVERTIME  
AGC/BTEA.......... C  
### CIM A  
### FMC B  
### OWNER/OPERATORS .... One  
PAY DAY ............ Cc  
PICKET LINES ......... A  
PILE DRIVERS ......... B  
### PLANT AIR or STEAM ... B  
Le eee Cc  
### POLITICAL ACTION  
COMMITTEE ........ Two  
### PRIME SOURCE of  
### SKILLED LABOR...... One  
PUMPS .............. One  
Single Diaphragm (2 hours  
aday) ea we B  
Lee ee C  
Single Diaphragm  
(Grouped) ......... B  
eee C  
Submersible Electric One  
### B  
eee C  
### RENTED EQUIPMENT ... C  
### ROBOTIC CONTROLLED  
EQUIPMENT ........ One  
### SAFETY and EDUCATION One  
### SATURDAYS & SUNDAYS = One  
90  
Article  
### VII  
### VII  
Vill  
### IV  
Vv  
Vil  
Section  
We  
weet ND  
Oo Oo Nh  
"1  
13  
14  
14  
15  
18  
13  
1-8  
14  
1-3  
Page  
14  
16  
18  
26  
45  
44  
23  
32  
4  
45  
26  
32-34  
35  
46  
63  
2  
ih  
37  
48  
37  
48  
15  
36  
47  
51-54  
15  
19-20  
Part  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
AGC/BTEA .......... C  
### CIM A  
### FMC B  
### SCHEDULE OF WAGES...  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  
AGC/IBTEA .......... Cc  
CIM .............. A  
### FMC B  
### SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT  
### CIM A  
FMC .............. B  
### SCOWS B  
### SHAFTS & TUNNELS .... A  
### SHIFTS  
AGC/BTEA .......... C  
CIM — Two Shifts ...... A  
— Three Shifts ..... A  
— Shafts & Tunnel  
Work ....... A  
FMC .............. B  
### SLURRY BUCKETS ...... One  
### SOCIAL ACTION  
COMMITTEE ........ Two  
### SOLE and EXCLUSIVE  
AGENCY ........... One  
### SONIC HAMMERS ...... One  
Crane Wichour Leads .... B  
91  
Article  
### Il  
Section  
Page  
  
28  
40  
78-79  
54  
28  
39-40  
21-22  
30  
37  
27-28  
43  
23  
25  
Part  
### STARTING TIMES  
Assiscant Engineer/  
Apprentice — AGC/  
BTEA............ C  
Assiscant Engineer/  
Apprentice - CIM .... A  
Assistance Engineer/  
Apprentice - FMC ....  B  
STEWARDS ........... One  
### STRAIGHT OR BROKEN  
### TIME, DAILY RATE.... B  
ieee C  
### STRIKES aun One  
### SUBSISTENCE ......... B  
chee wR RRB C  
Rented Equipment ..... Cc  
### SWINGER ENGINES .... B  
TERMINATION ........ Two  
### TEST PILE WORK ...... One  
TIDE WORK .......... B  
### TOOLS  
Furnishing .......... A  
Safekeeping .......... A  
### TRAVEL & SUBSISTENCE C  
### TRAVELING TIME ...... C  
### VIBRATORY HAMMERS .. One  
Crane Without Leads .... B  
### WELDING MACHINES ... One  
### WELLPOINT SYSTEMS  
Assembling & Connecting B  
Installation & Dismantling One  
Maintenance Engineers ... C  
92  
Article  
### IV  
### XXIII  
Vill  
Il  
### IV  
[V  
### VI  
Vv  
Vil  
### IV  
### VII  
### IV  
### VII  
Section  
21  
1]  
1-3  
co  
Page  
49  
36  
18-19  
38  
44  
39  
50  
51  
37  
73  
18  
32  
24  
26  
51  
44  
12  
32  
15  
35  
13  
46  
Part Article Section Page  
   
WIND BREAKERS ...... One VII 5B 13  
WITNESS ............ 76-77  
WORK STOPPAGE ...... A lV 8 26  
### WORK REQUIRED ON  
MACHINE .......... Cc Vv 10 66  
WORK WEEK ......... One Vil 16  
Completion of Work .... One VIII la 16  
Guarantee 40 Hours .... One VIII l 16  
Layoff One VIII Id 17  
Payroll Period ........ One VIII Ic 17  
ee. One VIII 3 18  
Rehire One Vill Id 17  
Straight Time ........ One Vill 16  
Termination Clause ..... One VIII 4 18  
Test Pile Work One VIII le 18  
Winter Shue Down ..... One VIII Ib 17  
### WORKERS  
### COMPENSATION ..... Two XXII 73  
93  
### NOTES  
94  
### NOTES  
92  
### NOTES  
96  
   
### INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF OPERATING ENGINEERS  
Local 4 and its Branches  
Tel: (508) 533-1433  
16 Trotter Drive, Medway, MA 02053  
Cover Illustration Courtesy of Condor Press  
and Central Artery Tunnel! Project  
SP -  
 