International Union of Uperating Enginee  
Local 4 and !ts Branches  
### SSTA  
Sloe ec  
2005-2008  
### MASTER DOCUMENT  
   
fie eee Per’  
|i - "5/31 det  
   
2005-2008  
### MASTER DOCUMENT  
and  
Provisions of the Agreements  
between  
   
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS  
Local 4 and its Branches  
and  
Labor Relations Division of  
onstruction Industries of Massachusetts  
Foundation & Marine Contractors  
Association of New England, Inc.  
Building Trades Employers Association  
of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts  
Labor Relations Division of the  
Associated General Contractors of  
Massachusetts, Inc.  
Foreword & Preamble  
Article |  
### Article II  
### Article Ill  
### Article IV  
### Article V  
### Article V1  
### Article VI  
### Asticle VIII  
Article IX  
### Article X  
### Part A  
Article |  
### Article I]  
### Article III  
### Article IV  
### Article V  
### Article V1  
### Article  
### Parte B  
Article |  
### Article I]  
### Article Ill  
### Article IV  
### Article V  
### Article VI  
### CONTENTS  
Part One — Master Document  
Territorial Jurisdiction +--+ +s  
Labor Management Relations ......--  
Subcontracting 2... 6 eee ee  
Holidays ee ees  
Hoisting Machine Crews  
_ eee  
General Provisions  
Work Week oo ee es  
Stewards .... 000 eee eee eee eee  
Pe ae ee ee ee  
Saturdays, Sundays and Inclement Weather 1  
Provisions — Construction Industries of  
Massachusetts  
Scope of Employment +++ +>:  
Hours ee ees  
Overtime cee es  
Special  
Shafts and eee is  
Scope of Agreement  
Savings Clause es  
Provisions — Foundation and Marine  
Contractors 2. ee  
Scope of Employment  
Hours ee eet  
Overtime oo... ts  
Special Provisions  
Scope of Agreement  
Savings Clause... ee ee ee  
2  
  
3  
   
Part C Provisions — Associated General  
Contractors ~ Building Trades  
Employers Association .......... 40  
Foreword ee ee ee 40  
Article I Tithe 2... ee AG  
Article I] nw a ne wags ee ie ye 4]  
Article Ill Hours 2... 0. ee es 42  
Arcicle IV Overtime «0... ee 43  
Article V Special Provisions 02... 00.00.0000. 43  
### Arcicle VI Rented Cranes, Truck Cranes, Cherry  
Pickers — Travel & Subsistence ...... 50  
Article Vll_ Scope of Agreemenc ...........-... 53  
### Arcicle Savings Clause 54  
Part Two — Master Document  
Article XI Health & Welfare, Pension,  
### Annuity & Savings Cooperative Trust,  
Apprentice Program and CiM Industry  
Advancemence Funds 55  
Article Liabilicy Insurance 60  
### Article XTJi Overloaded or Improperly Regiscered  
Vehicles 2... eee 61  
Article XIV. Dues Deduction 61  
### Acticle XV Social and Political Action Committees .. 62  
Arucle XVI for Fair Contracting and CIM  
Industry Advancement Fund 63  
Arcicle XVII Arbitration 64  
Article XVIII Several 65  
### Ascicle KIX Bonding cee 65  
Atticle XX Drug Abuse Prevention and Detection ... 67  
Article XXI Memorandum of Agreement ......... 7A  
### Article XXII Workers’ Compensation ..,......... 71  
Article ANU Termingtion .. asi wees f2  
Wieness ee 74  
Schedule of Wages 2.0.00 0 76  
dk i wd ew i ew it et RE eG 83  
tii  
### PART ONE  
### MASTER DOCUMENT  
### FOREWORD  
The Collective Bargaining Agreements between  
che International Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 and its Branches, and the Labor Relations  
Division of Construction Industries of Massachusetts,  
the Foundation & Marine Contractors Association of  
New England, Inc., che Building Trades Employers  
Association of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts and  
the Labor Relations Division of the Associated Gen-  
eral Contractors of Massachusetts, Inc. are separate  
and distinct Collective Bargaining Agreements. They  
are incorporated herein for convenience.  
The parties have endeavored co accurately tran-  
scribe the provisions of the separate Agreements into  
this Master Document. In the event of a conflict  
between this document and the separace Collective  
Bargaining Agreements, che Collective Bargaining  
Agreements shall prevail.  
### PREAMBLE  
These Agreements are entered into to the  
adjustment of grievances and dispuces between,  
Employers and employees; to provide insofar as pos-  
sible, for the continuous employment of labor, to  
bring about stable conditions in the industry, and to  
establish necessary procedure for the amicable adjust-  
ment of all disputes which may arise between  
Employers and employees.  
Part One — Article I  
### TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION  
These Agreements apply to the territorial juris-  
diction granted to Local Union 4 and its Branches  
by the I.U.O.E. as follows: Eastern part of the Com-  
monwealch of Massachusetts excluding seven town-  
ships in Worcester County and the Western part of  
Worcester County to a demarcation line formed by  
the Eastern boundaries of the following townships:  
Scurbridge, Brookfield, East Brookfield, North  
Brookfield, Oakham, Barre, Templeton, and  
Winchendon.  
Additionally, the Foundation & Marine Contrac-  
tors Association of New England, Inc. Agreement  
also applies to che five easterly counties in New  
Hampshire consisting of Coos, Carroll, Scrafford,  
Belknap and Rockingham; and che entire state of  
Maine.  
Part One — Article I  
### LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS  
Section 1, The Local is recognized as the sole and  
exclusive agency and representative of che employees  
covered by these Agreements for the purpose of col-  
lective bargaining with respect to wages, hours of  
work, and other conditions of employment, and for  
the purpose, also, of ocher mutual aid and protection.  
The Employer shall not make any in con-  
flice with the provisions of these Agreements.  
Section 2. Subject to applicable existing Federal and  
State Laws, each Employer chac che Local  
### Z  
is the established and prime source of skilled and  
dependable labor necessary or required to perform  
the kind of work covered within its craft jurisdiction  
and thac rhe Local is normally ready, able, and will-  
ing to supply such kind and quality of labor; and  
the Employer recognizes that all labor to be hired  
shall be of a kind and quality able to work efficiently  
with other labor employed or to be employed on  
work. The Employer agrees that on occasion of need  
for such labor, ic shall notify che Local of the need  
for qualified workers in the classifications within its  
craft jurisdiction.  
Section 3. Qualified workers procured as hereinafter  
provided or from other sources, if they are not mem-  
bers of the Local, shall apply for and become and  
remain members of the Local after the expiration of  
seven (7) days from the date of their employment or  
from the date of execution of this Agreement, which-  
ever is later.  
Section 4. All employees shall be hired by the  
Employer. .The Employer and the Local mutually  
agree that there shall be no discrimination with  
regard to an race, color, religion, sex, or  
national origin in regards to job referral or conditions  
of employment. The parties to these Agreements  
igree to comply with and adhere to the intene and  
ourpose of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Local  
igtees that i¢ will assist the Employer in meeting  
hese obligations under plans which have been  
ointly accepted by the parties.  
3  
Section 5. The parties agree that there shall be no  
lockouts by the Employer, nor any strikes or stop-  
page of work by the Local except for nonpayment of  
wages, including contributions to the Health & Wel-  
fare, Pension, Annuity & Savings 401(k) Plan, Coop-  
erative Trust and Training Funds.  
Part One — Article Ill  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
Section 1. The Employer agrees chat neicher he/she  
nor any of his/her subcontractors will subcontract any  
work covered by this Agreement, to be done at the  
site of construction, alceration, painting or repair of  
a building, structure or other work (including quar-  
ries, rock, sand and gravel plants, established on or  
adjacent to the job site to process or supply materials  
for the convenience of the Employer for job-site use)  
except to a person, firm or corporation, party to a  
current labor agreement with the Local.  
Section 2. This paragraph shall be incerpreted and  
enforced consistent with Section 8 (e) of che Labor  
Managemene Relations Act, as amended.  
Section 3. The Employer shall be responsible for the  
monthly payment of fringe benefic contributions  
measured by the hours worked at the Employer's job  
sites by Owner/Operators performing work covered  
by this Agreement. Such payment shall not be con-  
sidered an agreement that such Owner/Operators are  
employees of the Employer. The parties agree that,  
where practical, preference on overtime shall be  
2  
given to Local 4 employees, rather than to Owner/  
Operators.  
Section 4, By Friday of the first and third weeks of  
each month the Employer shall notify the Local, by  
facsimile transmission, of Owner/Operators engaged  
on their projects and the hours they have worked.  
Part One — Article 1V  
### HOLIDAYS  
Section 1. The holidays which are to be observed in  
these Agreements are as follows: New Year's Day,  
Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Memorial Day,  
July 4th, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or days on which  
these holidays are observed. Holidays shall not be  
deductible when engineers are on straight time.  
Section 2. An employee on straight time shall  
receive eight (8) hours’ straight time pay for a hol-  
iday not worked, including a holiday falling on Sat-  
urday. An employee on straight time, who is laid off,  
shall receive holiday pay for a holiday, including a  
holiday falling on Saturday if he/she has worked  
three (3) days in the calendar week in which the  
holiday falls.  
Section 3, Engineers or assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, working under the provisions of “Section A,”  
on a broken time or daily basis shall be paid holiday  
pay at the broken time or daily rate for a holiday  
falling within che regular work week, or on Saturday,  
provided they have worked a total of three (3) days  
3  
including the work day immediately preceding the  
holiday within any period of five (5) regular work  
days (including che holiday) in which the holiday  
falls. Engineers working under the provisions of  
“Sections B or C” shall receive holiday pay at the  
straight time rate provided they have worked three  
(3) days in said week.  
Section 4. Employees shail not be eligible for holi-  
day pay when they fail wichout cause, to work che  
regular work day preceding the holiday or the reg-  
ular work day following the holiday.  
Section 5. Engineers or assistant engineer/appren-  
tices ordered out on a holiday shall receive a guar-  
antee of eight (8) hours work at three (3) times their  
regular rate of wages within che hours of their reg-  
ular shift, except chac engineers employed on a seven  
(7) day power-driven heater or pump operation shall  
be paid double time and one-half, and in che case of  
emergency public work shall be paid double  
time.  
Section 6. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, employed on scraight time for one full payroll  
period, shall receive pay for Christmas Day if laid off  
on or after December 15‘, and shall receive pay for  
New Year's Day if rehired on or before January 15",  
Section 7. No work shall be performed on Labor  
Day except in case of danger co life, health, or  
property.  
6  
   
Part One — Article V  
### HOISTING MACHINE CREWS  
Section 1. Hoisting machine crews shall consist of  
afi Operator and an assistant engineer, an assistant  
engineer firemen or an apprentice. The term “hoise-  
ing machine” shall apply to cranes, locomotive  
cranes, climbing cranes, tower cranes, cranes operated  
from scows, land, and floating steam pile drivers,  
whirlies, lighters, drill rigs (of the type used to  
tostall caissons or drilled shafts), gradalls, dragline  
machines, and cherry pickers/hydraulic cranes, except  
thac cherry pickers/hydraulic cranes, of not over  
ninety (90) con rated capacity and boom and jib  
lengths not exceeding manufacturer’s specifications,  
shall require an engineer only. This exception does  
not apply to lattice boom cranes. The use of appren-  
tices for transportation and assembly of che above  
mentioned cherry pickers/hydraulic cranes is  
encouraged,  
Section 2, For traveling derricks and of fifty  
(50) ton or over, except as provided above, two (2)  
or three (3) derricks shall require one (1) assisrant  
and four (4) to six (6) derricks two (2) assistants.  
Lighters of less than twelve (12) ton capacity shall  
require an assistant only when digging or using  
steam hammet.  
Section 3. The assistant engineer/apprenctice on  
hoisting machines shal! be a person who will work  
tn harmony with the operator,  
Section 4, Crane capacity is recognized as both a  
function of maximum capacity at minimum radius  
7  
and capacity at an effective working radius. Cranes  
marketed and sold elsewhere in the country ar a  
given capacity will be recognized in this Agreement  
at that capacity.  
Section 5. Assistance engineers/oilers will nor be  
required on individual excavators, rather, the follow-  
ing terms and conditions shall apply to assiscanc  
engineers/apprentices:  
(a) The assistant engineer/apprentice shall assist  
the Operating Engineer by facilitating the loading  
and movement of trucks.  
(b) On “hoisting machines” the assistance engi-  
neer/apprentice may be allowed a minimum of  
two (2) hours a week operating time, at the dis-  
cretion of the operator and Employer's  
representative.  
Secttow 6, Crane operators, successfully completing  
the requirements mandated by the National Com-  
mission for the Certification of Crane Operators, sha!!  
receive a one time, five-hundred (500) dollar “Safety  
and Education” grant from che Joinc Labor/Manage-  
ment Cooperative Trust.  
Part One — Article VI  
### APPRENTICESHIP  
Section 1. Apprentices, subject to availability, will  
be referred to each Employer in the ratio of one  
Apprentice to each six (1 : 6) Journey-members  
employed. “Hoisting machines,” as defined in the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement, and Group HI  
8  
equipment, will not be computed into this ratio.  
Hoisting machines will continue to be manned as  
required in the Agreement.  
Section 2. The Employer shall not layoff an Appren-  
tice for lack of work, unless notice has been given to  
the Local at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to lay-  
off. When equipment is shur down the Apprentices  
will not replace the Journey-member.  
Section 3. The parties agree to comply with the  
Standards of Apprenticeship for Operating Engineers  
as established by the Joint Apprenticeship & Train-  
ing Committee. The Apprentice shall assume such  
duties as are agreed to by the Joint Apprenticeship  
and Training Trustees.  
Section 4, The classification of Apprentices (e.g.  
First Year, Second Year, etc.) shall be defined by the  
Apprenticeship and Training Coordinator. Appren-  
tices, upon successful completion of each incremental  
milestone, shall receive a 5% step rate increase based  
on the Group I wage classification.  
(a) Induction to successful completion of  
‘probationary period: 35%  
(b) Second six months of Apprenticeship to  
successful completion of first year: 60%  
(c) Third six months of Registered  
Apprenticeship: 65%  
(d) Fourth six months of Apprenticeship to  
successful completion of second yeat: 70%  
9  
(e) Fifth six months of Registered  
Apprenticeship: 75%  
(f) Sixth six months of Apprenticeship to  
successful completion of chird year: 80%  
(s) Seventh six months of Registered  
Apprenticeship: 85%  
(h) Eighth six months of Apprenticeship  
to completion of Program: 90%  
Section 5. Probationary Apprentices shall not have  
contributions for che Pension or Annuity Plans, nor  
deductions for the Annuity & Savings 401(k) Plan,  
made on their behalf. Upon successful completion of  
the probationary period and acceptance into the  
Local Union, Apprentices shall participate in all  
Fringe Benefit Plans offered by the Local. It is  
expected chat not more chan one First Year Appren-  
tice will be assigned co the same site.  
Section 6. Apprentice Engineers, may be assigned as  
Assistant Engineers on “hoisting machines” and will  
be compensated at the appropriate apprentice step  
rate,  
Section 7. Graduate Apprentices may be assigned to  
operate cranes, cherry pickers, cruck cranes or other  
“hoisting machines,” for a period of one (1) year and  
will be compensated at the rate specified in the Col-  
lective Bargaining Agreement. Graduate Appren-  
tices, working in the Crane Rental Industry during  
chis interval, may also be dispatched as the assistant  
engineer on a “hoisting machine.”  
10  
Section 8. Upon completion of the forma! Appren-  
ticeship Program (or the additional year when  
assigned to cranes, cherry pickers, truck cranes or  
other hoisting machines) Apprentices shall cransfer  
out of the registered Apprenticeship Branch into a  
Journey-member Branch.  
Part One — Article VI  
### GENERAL PROVISIONS  
Section 1. When pumping is required twenty-four  
(24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, four (4) shifts  
shall be employed, each of which shifts shall receive  
forty (40) hours wages at straight time and two (2)  
hours wages at double-cime. When work is per-  
formed on Saturday or Sunday, and the pumping  
operation is indispensable to such work, chen pre-  
mium pay shall be paid for all the pump operators  
on Saturday or Sunday. Holidays shall be paid at  
three (3) times the regular rate of wages.  
(a) The above provisions shall not apply to tunnel  
work which shall continue to be paid in accordance  
with the regular overtime provisions of chis  
Agreement.  
Section 2, When power driven heaters are used  
twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week,  
four (4) shifts shall be employed starting Monday at  
8 a.m. Said four (4) shifts shall consist of six (6)  
hours duration each. Each week each shift shall  
receive forty (40) hours wages ac straight cime and  
two (2) hours at double time except for a week  
including a holiday. Notwithstanding any other pro-  
lI  
vision(s) contained herein, such continuous heater  
operation shall terminate ac 8 a.m. Monday.  
Section 3. The following regulacions shall apply co  
high speed electric conveyors:  
(a) One (1) ro five (5) conveyors without a gen-  
erator, Group III. One (1) to five (5) conveyors  
with a generator, Group I (straight or daily race).  
(b) More than five (5) conveyors, Group |  
(straight or daily race.)  
(c) When more chan one line of conveyors is  
required, an additional engineer shall be employed  
for each additional line.  
(J) When more chan one control location is  
required on a line an additional engineer shall be  
employed for each additional control location.  
(e) Engineers shall set up and dismantle the  
conveyor Operation.  
Section 4. When a sonic or vibratory hammer is  
used with or without a generator, an engineer shall  
be employed at Group II race, and shall operate both  
the generator and che console.  
Section 5. Dozers, tractors, and scrapers will be fur-  
nished wich cabs and curtains and summer and win-  
ter fans. On dusty operations when water or a proper  
substitute is noc used, the Employer shall furnish  
breathing masks.  
(a) Shovels, cranes, backhoes, gradalls, front end  
loaders, and shovel dozers shall be equipped with  
heaters.  
12  
(b) On paving equipment wind breakers will be  
installed when cold weather requires such, and  
where the struccure of the machine makes such  
practical.  
Section 6. On grease trucks with power unit, an  
engineer shall be employed at maintenance engineer's  
rate, and if, in the opinion of che Employer, an assis-  
tance is required, the assistant shall be an apprentice.  
Section 7, Employees using their own vehicles as an  
escort vehicle shall be paid travel expenses at che rate  
of eighty-five (85) cents per mile for such use. It is  
understood and agreed thac when employees utilize  
their own vehicles to provide such escort duty, the  
Employer will assume liability and indemnify the  
employee for any claims or liability in excess of any  
insurance coverage thac the employee may have.  
Section 8. Not less than three (3) engineers shall be  
employed on che installation of and final dismantling  
of a wellpoint system.  
Section 9. The Employer recognizes the cradittonal  
participation of the Operating Engineers in the  
assembly, on-site moving, erection and maintenance  
of all equipment covered by this Agreement. The  
Employer further recognizes that the fabrication,  
assembly, maintenance, welding and repair of chat  
equipment on the job-site is the work of the Oper-  
ating Engineer.  
Section 10. Conventional (cable controlled) clam-  
shell and slurry buckets shall be classified as Group  
Ic.  
13  
Section If. For measurement of boom length in  
regards to “hammerhead” cype tower cranes, che  
length shall be che sum of che rwo distances: 1) The  
elevation under the hook; 2) The distance from che  
head sheave pin to the back of the counterweights.  
For cranes with “luffing booms,” the length shail be  
the sum of the two distances: 1) The co the  
luffing boom foot pins; 2) The distance from the  
luffing boom foot pin to the head sheave pin.  
Section 12. Boom lengths apply to cranes on roofs  
or similar elevated positions. Engineers receiving any  
boom length wage additive shall be paid such rate  
for che full payroll period, even chough the boom is  
shortened.  
Section 13. Prior to che use of new methods or new  
equipment that may come under these Agreements,  
the manning of such equipment or system, the wage  
classification and the methods to be used in operat-  
ing such systems or equipment shall be discussed ac  
a pre-job conference, In the event the parties do not  
reach agreement in the pre-job conference the dis-  
pute provisions of these Agreements shall be used.  
Section 14, Equipment and techniques, used pri-  
marily in HazMat cleanups, such as robotic con-  
trolled equipment, concrete cleaning machines,  
ultra-high pressure water-jec cutcing tool systems,  
vacuum blascing machines and che maintenance  
needed to service this equipment, will be  
discussed at a pre-job conference.  
14  
Sectzon 15, Industrial fork lifts/chisel ccucks, hoist-  
ing not over nine (9) feet, shall be operated by a  
ucility technician and shall be classified as Group III.  
Section 16. Track mounted and hydraulic operated  
self un-loading material movers, shall be classified as  
Group III. Track mounted material movers,  
equipped with a “dozer” type blade, shall be classi-  
fied as Group II.  
Section 17. Welding machines, with the exception  
of stud welding machines, need not be manned. In  
the event an Employer desires to man welding  
machines, an engineer will be assigned at che Group  
Ill rare.  
Section 18. A single submersible electric pump of  
not over three (3) inches in suction diameter may be  
operated without an engineer. In the event an  
Employer desires to man the pump, an engineer will  
be assigned.  
Section 19. A single compressor of not over 185  
cfm, may be operated without an engineer. In the  
event an Employer desires to man che compressor,  
an engineer will be assigned.  
Section 20. The issue of change facilities wilt be dis-  
cussed at the pre-job conference, or as site conditions  
evolve, and will be provided where warranted by on-  
site conditions.  
Section 21. In the case where the owner, developer  
or general contract limits che hours co be worked,  
the Employer may work an eight (8) hour off shift  
15  
inclusive of lunch period, at straight time rates. The  
employer shall provide verification of such a require-  
ment upon the request of the Local Union.  
Part One — Article VI  
### WORK WEEK  
Section 1. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, employed on a straighe time basis, shall receive  
forty (40) hours straight cime pay each payroll  
period of employment exceprc in the following  
circumstances:  
(a) Ac che completion of work for a machine,  
which may come only after at least one (1) full  
payroll period immediately preceding completion,  
engineers or assistant engineer/apprentices shall  
receive no less chan three (3) days’ pay, unless, che  
work extends beyond the third day, in which case  
a full week's wages shall be paid.  
(b) When che Employer shuts down a job for  
the winter season, engineers and assistant engi-  
neer/apprentices who have been employed ac least  
one (1) full payroll period immediately preceding  
the shuc down, shall receive no less than chree (3)  
days’ pay, unless the work extends beyond the  
third day, in which case a full week’s wages will  
be paid.  
(c) Engineers and assistant engineer/apprentices  
whose employment begins after che stare of the  
payroll period, shall receive pay only for chose  
straight time days remaining in said payroll  
16  
   
period provided such days are immediately fol-  
lowed by one full payroll period.  
(d) Engineers and engineer/apprentices  
laid off on other than completion of work for a  
machine shall receive forry (40) hours pay at the  
conclusion of the payroll! period in which layoff  
takes place, and if rehired anytime in the payroll  
period immediately following, shall be paid for  
those straight time days intervening between the  
layoff and rehiring. If however, more than one (1)  
full payroll period intervenes between layoff and  
rehiring, then they shall receive pay only for those  
days remaining in the payroll period in which they  
are rehired provided such remaining days are  
immediately followed by one (1) full payroll  
period.  
(e) Employees engaged in test-pile work which  
precedes the start of a job shall receive not less  
chan three (3) days pay unless work extends  
beyond the third day in which case a full week’s  
wages shall be paid.  
Section 2. In cases where the owner, developer, or  
awarding authority limits the hours to be worked,  
the Employer may work an eight (8) hour off shift,  
inclusive of lunch period, at straight cime rates.  
Upon request, the employer shall produce verifica-  
tion of this requirement.  
Section 3. Any engineer or assistance engineer/  
apprentice desiring to quit his/her job shall notify  
the Employer and Business Representative, and shall  
17  
continue on the job until relieved by a competent  
engineer or assistant engineer.  
Section 4. On applicacion of termination clause, che  
calendar week shall govern. On layoffs, the engineer  
or assistant engineer/apprentice shall be paid off one-  
half hour before quitcing time.  
Part One ~ Article IX  
### STEWARDS  
Section 1. The Local may appoint stewards on jobs.  
Stewards shall nor be discriminated against because  
of cheir legitimate activities on behalf of the Local.  
In the event a steward is laid off, he/she shall be  
given consideration on any new job opportunity for  
which he/she is qualified.  
Section 2. On jobs bid on or after June !, 1999,  
with a dollar value in excess of $25 million, the  
steward shall be assigned at equipmence mobilizacion  
and may funccion as a utiliry technician uncil such  
time as a more appropriate assignment becomes  
available.  
Section 3, There shall be no non-working stewards.  
Stewards shall be allowed co reasonably consult other  
engineers and assistant engineer/apprencices on che  
job wich as lictle as possible co work.  
Business Representatives shall be allowed to visit all  
jobs, inspect cards, appoinc stewards, and enforce the  
provisions of this  
18  
Part One — Article X  
### SATURDAYS, SUNDAYS, and  
### INCLEMENT WEATHER  
Section 1, Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, when ordered out on a Sacurday or Sunday  
shifc, shall receive a guarantee of eight (8) hours  
work at premium pay, unless che inclemenc weather  
clause conditions apply.  
Section 2. In the event that members of che Local  
are ordered out for work on Saturday and/or Sunday,  
and due to inclement weather only are unable co  
work, they shall be paid as follows:  
(a) For reporting but noc starting, chey shail  
receive two (2) hours ac che premium rate.  
(b) For starting work, they shall receive no less  
than four (4) hours ac the premium rate.  
(c) For working beyond the fourth hour chey  
shall receive a minimum of eight (8) hours ac the  
premium rate,  
Section 3. In the event che operator determines that  
he/she is unable to work due co high winds, the  
inclement weather clause shall apply.  
Section 4. Qn Sunday and Holidays, the  
Employer may advance starting cime of a shift by  
one hour.  
19  
### PART A  
Provisions of che Agreement  
with  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
Construction Industries of Massachusetts  
This Agreement made this Isc day of June 2005,  
by and between Labor Relations Division of Con-  
struction Industries of Massachusetts, hereinafter  
called the “Association,” on behalf of ics members,  
each of which members is hereinafter designated as  
the “Employer,” and the International Union of  
Operating Engineers Local 4 and its Branches,  
hereinafter designated as the “Local.”  
Part A — Article 1  
### SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT  
Section 1, The terms of this Agreement shall apply  
to all operations usually undertaken by che Highway  
and Heavy Construction Industry including but not  
limited to highway, heavy and urilicy construction  
on roads, streets, alleys, sidewalks, parkways, parking  
areas, airports, bridle paths, athletic fields, highway  
and railroad bridges, asphale plants, aggregate proc-  
essing plants, tunnels, dams, water creacmenr plants,  
sewape treacment plants, subways, driveways, grade  
separation involving highways, conduits, service  
mains, sewers in trenches, foundations other rhan  
chose used exclusively in building construction, earth  
dams, snow removal, flood control projects, filter  
beds and filtration plants, including che assembly,  
operation and maintenance of all equipment, vehicles  
20  
and facilities used in connection with and serving  
the aforementioned work and services except when  
the matter of repairs is such that they cannot be  
made by employees.  
Section 2. There shall be EXCLUDED, however,  
from this Agreement all building construction, con-  
struction of pumping stations, except when fully  
integrated in a heavy construction project, demoli-  
tion of building superstructures, construction of oil  
terminals, piers, docks, and marine projects and all  
work performed with floating equipment (cranes or  
other equipment operated from scows shall be clas-  
sified as floating equipment). There shall also be  
EXCLUDED from the Agreement work involved in  
the erection of scruccural steel, che driving of steel  
H-piles and precast concrete piles, concrete piles,  
pipe piles, and vertical sand drains, unless such work  
is merely incidental to the work being performed on  
a particular project.  
Section 3. The terms of this Agreement shall apply  
to all work usually and customarily performed by  
Local 4 and its Branches within its craft jurisdiction.  
Part A ~ Article H  
### HOURS  
Section 1. The regular work day shall consist of  
eight (8) hours, work to start on a one or two-shift  
opetation not earlier than 7 a.m. If che Employer  
decides the starting cime is to be 7 a.m. instead of  
8 a.m., he shall continue starting at that cime for at  
lease five consecutive work days.  
21  
Section 2. The regular work week shall be forry (40)  
hours, Monday through Friday, consisting of eight  
(8) hours each day, and said eight (8) hour day shall  
be concluded not later than 4:30 p.m.  
Section 3. In case of a two-shift operation, che sec-  
ond shift shall begin no tater than one hour after the  
completion of che first shift, but, in no event, after  
5:30 p.m., and such second shift shall be inclusive  
of a one-half hour lunch period.  
Part A — Article Hl  
### OVERTIME  
Section 1. Time and one-half shall be paid all clas-  
sificacions for overtime, and double time shall be  
paid for all work on Sundays. Double time shall be  
paid for overtime for work indispensable to any oper-  
ation upon which workers of any other crade then  
working are being paid double cime. Double time  
for overtime shalt also be paid for che construction  
of bridges over navigable waters where marine con-  
struction equipment can be transported by water  
from outside sources, whether che same be used or  
not,  
Section 2. Overtime shall be compuced tn one-half -  
hour periods, and any fractional pare of such period °  
shall count as one-half hour at the premium rate  
in the case of assistant engineer/apprentices  
who are required co work before starting cime or after  
quitting time, in which case they shall be paid over-  
time computed in one-quarter hour periods, and any  
22  
fractional part of such period shall count as one-quar-  
ter hour at the premium rate.  
Part A — Article IV  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS  
Section 1. All employees shall be hired and selected  
by the Employer, On jobs where chere is no master  
mechanic, the Employer shall notify the Local as  
soon as possible of any additional members who have  
been employed.  
Section 2. The Employer shall furnish, during che  
course of the day’s work, transportation is  
necessary for the carrying out of a work assignment  
on the job site. Ir is understood che Employer will  
provide either his own vehicle or chat of a recognized  
rental company for this purpose. This service shall  
not include transportation to and from the job site  
at the beginning or end of the day, but neither will  
this prohibit the voluntary providing of such trans-  
portation by the Employer.  
Section 3. An employee, furnishing cools to carry  
out a work assignment, shall cause an inventory of  
such tools to be taken by che Employer, and the  
Employer agrees to reimburse such employee for  
tools lost as a resule of forced breaking and entering.  
Section 4. In case of emergencies involving delays,  
it is agreed chat a maintenance engineer may operate  
a bulldozer, road roller, etc., for a few hours but not  
exceeding a day, and ic is further agreed chat in case  
of an equipment breakdown, the operator or crew of  
23  
such equipment may be moved ro an idle machine  
on the same job for the remainder of chat day only.  
Section 5, When six or more engineers on a day shift  
in Groups J and II (excluding rollers and spreaders  
when used in an asphalt paving operation, unless  
used with other equipment) of the Wage Schedule  
are employed by an Employer on any one contract  
job, a master mechanic shall be selected by the  
Employer. When there are six (6) co ten (10) such  
engineers, the master mechanic shall work with the  
tools as required by the Employer. When eleven (11)  
or more such engineers are employed, che master  
mechanic shall not work wich the cools except co  
make repairs in an emergency.  
Section 6. In the event that there shall be a second  
and/or third shift on any job, no master mechanic  
shall be required on said shifts, but in place chereof,  
a qualified foreman mechanic shall be employed  
straight cime, forty hours, who shal! be responsible  
for the equipment under our jurisdiction and shall  
be required to work with tools, if necessary, as  
direcced by the Employer.  
Section 7. When three (3) shifts are employed, the  
starting time shall be Monday, 8 a.m., 4 p.m. and  
12 p.m., respectively, and che Jase shift shall have  
completed a forty (40) hour week by 8 a.m. the fol-  
lowing Sacurday. All work between 8 a.m. Saturday  
and 8 a.m. Sunday shall be paid for at che rate of  
time and one-half, and all work berween Sunday 8  
a.m. and Monday 8 a.m. shall be paid for at che rate  
24  
of double time, provided ic is on a three-shift oper-  
ation. Each shift shall include one-half hour period  
for lunch.  
Section 8. In the event of any stoppage of work  
caused by any union or unions, the party of the first  
part may pay off its straight time employees at the  
end of the work day on which the stoppage occurs  
and will nor have to pay these employees for any  
time during the period of such stoppage. Engineers  
will not be required to go through picket lines.  
Section 9. Daily cate on truck cranes shall be allow-  
able only. between December 1, and March 15 and,  
also, when the Employer rents the same to any other  
person of company.  
Section 10. The Employer shall supply a place on  
the job site for the safekeeping of cools.  
Section 11. An Employer, who requires employees  
tO move equipment to any job, location, project, or  
yard, and such assignment causes the employees co  
be without their own vehicle, shall provide the  
employees with transportation back to their own  
vehicle, and shall pay the employees at the premium  
rate when such takes place outside their regular  
working hours.  
Section 12. The servicing and maintenance of  
itghted traffic signs shall be the duty of the main-  
tenance engineer.  
25  
Part A ~ Article V  
### SHAFTS and TUNNELS  
These provisions are supplementary to terms and  
provisions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement.  
Section 1. When two (2) shifts are employed on  
shaft and tunnel work, che starting time shall be  
either 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. Said shifts shall be continuous  
and shall be of eight (8) hours duration, each inclu-  
sive of one-half hour lunch period.  
Section 2, It is agreed chat there will be engineers  
employed on shaft hoists during all shifts if any  
employees are working in shaft or tunnel.  
Section 3. There will be an hourly premium on shaft  
and tunnel work for chose engineers and assiscant  
engineer/apprentices whose normal working assign-  
ments regularly require them to go into che shaft or  
tunnel. (See attached Schedule of Wages)  
Section 4, When compressed air is used, an engineer  
will be assizned to low air equipment.  
Section 5. On jobs bid after January 1, 1999, secure  
change house facilities, equipped with showers, wash  
basins and lockers shall be provided. Travel time on  
the job, availability of a back-up locomotive in che  
cunnel and other safety concerns, as well as other  
matters, will be handled at a pre-job conference.  
Section 6. A qualified master mechanic shal! be  
employed when six (6) or more engineers (i.e., ocher  
than assistant engineer/apprentices) are employed on  
any day shift on any one job. In the event chere shall  
26  
be a second and/or third shift on any job, no master  
mechanic shall be required on said shifts, but in  
place thereof, a qualtfied foreman mechanic shall be  
employed, and he/she shall be responsible for rhe  
equipment under his/her jurisdicrion, and shall be  
required to work with the tools, if necessary, as  
directed by che Employer.  
Sectzon 7. On jobs bid after January 1, 1999, che  
heading mechanic shal! be listed as Group Ic. (See  
attached Schedule of Wages).  
Part A — Article Vi  
### SCOPE of AGREEMENT  
Section 1. The Master Document — Parts One, Two  
and Three, together with Part A, the section for the  
Labor Relations Division of Construction Industries  
of Massachusetts, expresses the complete understand-  
ing of the parties on the subject of working condi-  
tions, hours of labor, and all other conditions of  
employment, including wages.  
Section 2. In the event that che parties fail ro con-  
summiate an agreement on or before May 31, 2008,  
the Local may exercise its rights permitted by law,  
including the right of work stoppage, notwithstand-  
ing anything to the contrary which may be contained  
in thts Agreement.  
Part A — Artule VH  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
The tnvalidity of any provision herein shall not  
effect the remainder of this Agreement. The parties  
27  
   
   
   
hereto agree jointly to take such action as may be  
necessary to obtain the approval of the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement by any State or Federal  
Agency which may be required.  
28  
   
### PART B  
Provisions of the Agreement  
with the  
### FOUNDATION and MARINE  
Contractors Association of New England, Inc.  
This Agreemenc made this Ist day of June 20095,  
by and berween the Foundation and Marine Con-  
tractors Association of New England, Inc., here-  
inafter called the “Association” acting for and in  
behalf of and under the auchority of its members and  
any other member joining said Association during  
the term of this Agreement thar it is authorized and  
has agreed to represent, and such other contractors  
who execute an acceptance of the Terms and Provi-  
sions of this Agreement, hereinafter referred ro as the  
“Employer” and International Union of Operating  
Engineers Local 4 and its Branches, hereinafter  
referred to as the “Local.”  
Part B ~ Article ]  
### SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT  
The terms of this Agreement shall apply to all  
yperations usually undertaken by the Employer,  
ncluding but not limited to all construction on  
wharves, piers, oi] terminals, coal handling yards,  
xridges, marine structures, cofferdams and founda-  
ions involving the mud slurry process, the handling  
ad driving of all piling, including the sheeting and  
th connection with same, and all work per-  
ormed with Aoating equipment. Cranes or other  
29  
————____ __  
land equipment operated from scows shall be clas-  
sifted as floating equipment.  
If an Employer undertakes work that normally is  
covered by a different Agreement, the conditions of  
such Agreement shall apply.  
Part B ~ Article I  
### HOURS  
Section 1. Eight (8) hours shali constituce a day’s  
work performed between che hours of 8 a.m. and 12  
noon and 12:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday  
through Friday. These hours may be advanced one-  
half ('/2) hour or one (1) hour on a particular projecc.  
Section 2, The regular work week shall be forty (40)  
hours, Monday through Friday, consisting of eight  
(8) hours each day, and said eight (8) hour day shall  
be concluded nor later than 4:30 p.m.  
Section 3. Engineers and assistant enyineer/appren-  
tices may work from | p.m. to 5 p.m., if the majority  
of the crades served on the job so decide.  
Section 4. When two (2) shifts are employed, the  
starting time shal] be Monday 8 a.m., Monday 4  
p.m., respectively, and the second shift shall have  
completed a forty (40) hour week by midnight the  
following Friday.  
Section 5. When three (3) shifts are employed, the  
starting time shall be Monday 8 a.m., Monday 4  
p.m., Monday 12 midnight, respeccively, and the last  
shift shall have completed a forty (40) hour week by  
8 a.m. the following Saturday. Engineers working  
30  
—<$ rr a ge er  
shifts on the broken time basis shall receive no less  
chan eight (8) hours each shift unless ordered on pre-  
vious shift not to report.  
Section 6. When it ts necessary to use equipment  
for low water work, the stare of a continuous shift  
may be changed to take advantage of such rides  
without overtime pay except before 6 a.m. and after  
8 p.m. when double time shall be paid. Engineers  
working a.m. tides after 6 a.m. shall work seven (7)  
hour shifts and be paid for eight (8) hours. Engineers  
working p.m. tides shall work six (6) hours and be  
paid for eight (8) hours.  
Part B — Article HI  
### OVERTIME  
The first ewo (2) hours work in excess of eight (8)  
hours per day shall be performed ac the rare of time  
and one-half, after which double time shall be paid.  
Work on Saturday shall, also, be performed art the  
rate of time and one-half for the first eight (8) hours,  
ifter which double time shall be paid. Double time  
hall, also, be paid for all work performed on Sunday.  
Not withstanding any of the above, double time  
hall be paid for work indispensable ro any  
ipon which workers of any other trade then working  
re being paid double cime.  
Part B ~ Article IV  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS  
ection 1, When without leads is used with  
31  
   
a sonic or vibratory hammer to install sheeting or  
piles, the rig shall be manned as fo}lows:  
(a) A crane operator who shall be paid the  
Group Ib. rate.  
(b) An operator at the Group HH rate whose  
duties shalf include those of che assistant engineer.  
Section 2, When a crane with leads (either fixed  
or flying) is used with a diesel hammer to install  
sheeting or piles, the rig shall be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator who shall be paid the  
Group Ib rate.  
(b) An assistant engineer who shall be paid at  
che appropriate Group IV rate.  
(c) If an independent power source ts used to  
trip the hammer no additional manning is  
required.  
Sectfon 3. When a crane with leads (either fixed or  
flying) and an auger, not powered by an independ-  
ent power source, is used to install piles, the rig shall  
be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator who shall be paid che  
Group Ib rate. In addition, this operator shall  
receive a two (2) hour wage addicive* for each day  
the auger is used, but no fess chan five (5) hours  
per week. This wage additive shall apply as long  
as the auger is mounted on or in the leads, regard.  
less of whether or not it is used.  
32  
(b) An assistant engineer who shal! be paid at  
the appropriate Group IV rate.  
(c) If an independent power source is used to  
trip the hammer no additional manning is  
required,  
Section 4. When a crane with leads (either fixed or  
flying) and an auger powered by an independent  
power source is used to install piles, che rig shall  
be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator who shall be paid the  
Group Ib rate. In addiction, this operator shall  
receive a two (2) hour wage additive* for each day  
the auger is used, but no less chan five (5) hours  
per week. This wage additive shall apply as long  
as che auger is mounted on or in che leads, regard-  
less of whether or not it ts used.  
(b} An operator at the Group II rate whose  
duties shall include those of an assistant engineer.  
(c) If an independent power source is used to  
trip the hammer no additional manning is  
required.  
Section 5. When a crane mounted drill attachment  
(Caldwell type) is used for caisson or drilled shaft  
operations, the rig shall be manned as follows:  
(a) A crane operator at the Group I rate who  
shall also receive a wage addicive* of ten (10)  
hours per week.  
(b) An operator at the Group III rate whose  
duties shall include those of che assistant engineer.  
33  
*The wage additive shall be calculated at che oper-  
ators base straight time hourly rate plus the  
Annuity contribution. No other Fringe Benefits  
shall be considered to be part of this premium.  
Ic is considered a wage additive and does not  
reflect hours worked.  
Section 6. If the configuration of the crane is  
changed during the payroll week, the crew shall be  
paid ac the highest applicable rate for chat entire pay  
week.  
Section 7, Maintenance engineers’ ducies shall  
tnclude the assembling and connecting of wellpoint  
systems, temporary piping, repairing and operation  
of valves controlling air and steam pressure furnished  
from permanent power plane.  
(a) This language shal! mean that on a job  
where a maintenance mechanic is in the employ  
of an Employer using plant air or steam, such  
maintenance mechanic shall, among his other  
duties, be assigned to the operation of che plant  
air or steam valve.  
(b) In addition, if no maintenance mechanic is  
employed, but che Employer using the plane air  
has an engineer assigned to a compressor opera-  
tion, chen the operation of the air valve shall be  
an additional duty of such engineer, provided such  
plane air is being used to supplement che same  
function as che compressor operation.  
(c) Furrhermore, if no maintenance engineer is  
employed, but the Employer using plant steam  
34  
has in his employ an engineer assigned to a heat-  
ing operation, then the operation of the steam  
valve shall be an additional dury of such engineer,  
provided such plane steam is being used to sup-~  
plement che heating operation.  
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this  
Agreement, a steam valve used only for temporary  
heat need not be manned.  
Section 8. Submersible electric pumps, when used  
in place of a conventional wellpoine system and con-  
nected to a common header on one level and in one  
foundation, shall be manned che same as the well-  
point system.  
Section 9. An engineer or fireman who is required  
by his Employer to care for a boiler on holidays,  
Saturdays and/or Sundays shall receive not less chan  
cwo hours additional pay at double time rate for each  
run,  
Section 10, Engineers or hremen required to get up  
steam before 8 a.m. shall receive not less than one-  
half hour's pay at double cime.  
Section 11, engineer/apprentices who are  
required to work before starting time or after quit-  
ting time shall be paid overtime computed on one-  
quarter hour periods, and any fractional part of such  
period shall count as one-quarter hour at the pre-  
mium rate,  
Section 12. For the purpose of this Agreement, a  
lighcer shall be construed to mean a piece of floating  
35  
equipment equipped with a hoiscing engine with  
motive power, a swinger, bilge pump, and a single  
air compressor cto be used by the carpenter crew on  
the lighter, such crew to consist of no more chan six  
(6) employees and the compressor to be used only in  
the maintenance of the lighter and the boring of  
holes in cimber and piles.  
(a) When the hoisting engineer on a derrick  
lighter is unable co operate che swinger engine,  
the engineer shall have an assistance who shall  
receive the wage rate sec forth in Group II.  
(b) When a crane is placed on a scow, the min-  
imum crew shall consist of an engineer and assis-  
cant engineer. The assistant engineer shall perform  
duties of an oiler and may operate a bilge pump  
and compressor used to maintain the scow and to  
bore holes tn timber and piles, and shall be paid  
at the wage rate as set forth in Group [V.  
Section 13. When a single diaphragm pump is used  
more than two (2) hours in any one day, an engineer  
shal! be employed at a minimum of a day.  
Section 14. Single diaphragm pumps and one-bag  
mixers, gasoline or electric power may be grouped  
on job sites as follows:  
(a) Two (2) or three (3) of these machines, one  
(1} engineer.  
(b) Four (4) or more of these machines, two (2)  
engineers as the conditions require.  
36  
Section 15. Cabs on cranes as well as driver cabs on  
truck cranes shall be equipped with heaters. Shovels,  
cranes, backhoes, gradalls, front end loaders, and  
shovel dozers shall be equipped with heaters. Shelter  
shall be provided for steam boilers. All equipment  
shall be provided with suitable and safe means for  
getting on and off.  
Section 16, When engineers start to work, they shall  
inquire and be informed whether they are on scraight  
time or daily rate. Employers desiring to change  
engineers from straight cime to daily rate, or vice  
versa, shall notify the engineers at the end of their  
regular pay week.  
Section 17. Daily rate on truck cranes shall be  
allowable only when the Employer rents the same to  
any other person or company.  
Section 18. All ordinary repairs on a machine,  
boiler, or mechanical pile driving hammer shall be  
done by the engineer on the machine. In case of an  
equipment breakdown, the operator or crew of such  
equipment may be moved to an idle machine on the  
same job for the remainder of that day only.  
Section 19. Master mechanics, selected by the  
Employer, shall be employed on any job where six  
(G6) engineers are employed on any shift. The Master  
mechanic shall not operate any machine except in  
cases of emergency, or to demonstrate, except chat  
when less chan eight (8) machines are involved, he  
shall work with the tools. When there are eight (8)  
37  
or more machines involved, he shall supervise repairs  
on machines.  
Section 20, On jobs where no master mechanic is  
required, an engineer employed in the of  
equipment outlined in Group [I may, at the option  
of the Employer, be required ro maintain, service,  
and repair equipment, and in such cases shall receive  
maintenance mechanics wages. The Employer agrees  
co make a sincere effort to take full advantage of this  
provision for added utilization of Group III  
engineers,  
Section 21. Engineers (except those set forth in  
Group Ill, Schedule of Wages) and assistant engi-  
neer/apprencices in the employ of an Employer who  
pays subsistence to any of his workers, shall receive  
subsistence in an amount not less chan the greatest  
amount paid by the Employer cto any of his workers.  
Section 22. An Employer who requires any employ-  
ees tO Move equipment to any job, location, project,  
or yard, and such assignment causes the employees  
to be withouc cheir own vehicle, shall provide che  
employees with back to their own  
vehicles and shall pay them at the premium rate  
when such takes place outside the employee’s regular  
working hours.  
Part B — Article V  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  
Section 1, The Master Document — Parts One, Two  
and Three, together with Parc B, che section for the  
38  
Foundation and Marine Contractors Association of  
New England, Inc. expresses the complete under-  
standing of the parties on the subjece of working  
conditions, hours of labor, and all other conditions  
of employment, including wages.  
Section 2. In the event that the parties fail to con-  
summate an agreement on or before May 31, 2008,  
the Local may exercise its rights permitted by law,  
including the right of work stoppage, notwichstand-  
ing anything to che contrary which may be contained  
in this Agreement.  
Part B -~ Article VI  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
The invalidity of any provision herein shall not  
effect the remainder of this Agreement. The parties  
hereto agree jointly to take such action as may be  
necessary to obtain che approval of che terms and  
conditions of rhis Agreement by any State or Federal  
Agency which may be required.  
39  
### PART C  
Provisions of the Agreements  
with che  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
of the  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
of Massachusetts, Inc.  
and with the  
### BUILDING TRADES  
### EMPLOYERS ASSOCIATION  
of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts, Inc.  
   
### FOREWORD  
The Agreement between The Internationa)! Union  
of Operating Engineers Loca) 4 and its Branches and  
the Laber Relations Division of the Associated Gen-  
eral Contractors of Inc., and between  
the Local and rhe Building Trades Employer Asso-  
ciation of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts, Jnc., are  
separate but contain identical cerms. For  
purposes of convenience we have herein printed these  
Agreements as a single section.  
Part C ~ Article f  
### TITLE  
This Agreement made this Ist day of June, 2005,  
by and between the LABOR RELATIONS DIVI-  
### SION of che ASSOCIATED GENERAL CON-  
TRACTORS of Massachuseces, Inc., and the  
### BUILDING TRADES EMPLOYERS ASSOCIA-  
TION of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts, Inc.  
40  
th  
   
hereinafter called che “Association” acting for and in  
behalf of and under che of its members and  
any other member joining said Association during  
che term of this Agreement, that ic is auchorized and  
has agreed co represent, hereinafter referred to as the  
“Employer” and che International Union of Operat-  
ing Engineers Local 4 and its Branches, hereinafter  
referred to as the “Local.” A currence list of members  
of the Association, who have so authorized, will be  
furnished the Local upon signature of the Agree-  
ment. The Association shall provide the Local with  
any additions to the lise during che term of this  
Agreement. The Local, for good cause, may reject  
any such additions.  
Part C — Article H  
### JURISDICTION  
It is agreed the Local has jurisdiction over hoisting  
and portable engines, boilers, and machinery oper-  
ated by steam or mechanical power, including  
pumps, compressors, syphons, pulsometers, fork lifts,  
concrete mixers, stone crushers, elevators used for  
hoisting material, power driven conveyors, street  
rollers, cold planers, grinders, edgers, reclaimers, all  
power shovels, cranes, scrapers, tractors, bulldozers,  
gradalls, shovel dozers, frone end loaders, Jackson  
type campers, self-propelled or tractor drawn tam-  
pers, pumpcrete machines, concrete pumps, concrete  
pavers, screed machines and concrete finishing  
machines, wellpoine systems operating and inscall-  
ing, wasce water plants, valves controlling permanent  
plane air or steam pressure, cableways, orange peel  
4t  
and clam shell buckets, pile drivers, dinky locomo-  
cives, work and personnel boats, straddie buggies, cal  
cracks, ballast regulators, switch tampers, and rail  
anchor machines; or any machine used irrespective of  
its motive power.  
Part C ~ Article Ll  
### HOURS  
Section 1. Eight (8) hours shall consticuce a day’s  
work performed between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and  
12:00 noon and 12:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday  
through Friday. These hours may be advanced one-  
half ('/2) or one (1) hour on a particular project.  
Section 2, The regular work week shall be forty (40)  
hours, Monday through Friday, of eight  
(8) hours each day, and said eighe (8) hour day shall  
be concluded not later than 4:30 p.m.  
Section 3. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices may work from 1:00 p.m. co 5:00 p.m. if the  
majority of the trades served on che job so decide.  
Section 4. When cwo (2) shifts are employed, che  
starting time shall be Monday 8:00 a.m., and Mon-  
day 4:00 p.m., respectively, and the second shift shall  
have completed a forty (40) hour week by midnight  
the following Friday.  
Section 5. When three (3) shifts are employed, the  
starting time shall be Monday 8:00 a.m., Monday  
4:00 p.m., and Monday 12:00 midnight, respec-  
tively, and che shift shall have completed a forty  
(40) hour week by 8:00 a.m. the following Saturday,  
42  
Engineers working shifts on a broken cime basis shall  
receive no less chan eight (8) hours each shift unless  
ordered on previous shift not to report.  
Part C — Article 1V  
### OVERTIME  
The first two (2) hours work in excess of eight (8)  
hours per day shall be performed at the rate of time  
and one-half, after which double time shall be paid.  
Work on Saturday shall also be performed at the rate  
of time and one-half for che first eighc (8) hours, after  
which double time shall be paid. Double cime shall  
also be paid for all work performed on Sunday. Not-  
withstanding any of the above, double time shall be  
paid for work indispensable to any operation upon  
which workers of any other crade then working are  
being paid double time.  
Part C — Articde V  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS  
Section 1. When it is necessary for a crew to move  
a shovel or crane from one (Ll) location to another,  
they shall receive not less than the regular rate for  
the number of days required to perform the work,  
but in no case shall chey receive less than one (1)  
day’s pay. Traveling time for crews before 8:00 a.m.  
or after 4:30 p.m. shall be paid at che rate of double  
cime,  
Section 2, When an engineer starts to work, he/she  
shall inquire and be informed whether he/she is on  
43  
straight cime or broken time before the end of the  
first day.  
Section 3. An Employer desiring to change an engi-  
neer from scraighe to broken time or vice versa shall  
notify the engineer at the end of his/her regular pay  
week,  
Section 4, Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices shall be paid before stopping time on regular  
pay day. In case they are nor paid, they shall receive  
single time for waiting for their pay.  
Section 5, Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, having to come in for their pay, shall receive  
two (2) hours pay for doing so.  
Section 6. An engineer on broken time shall report  
each day unless told on che previous day not to do  
so, and shall receive two (2) hours pay for reporting.  
Such two (2) hours reporting pay applies only co  
Group III, except to wellpoint system which is  
straighe time.  
Sectron 7, An engineer on broken time starting  
work in the morning is to receive a minimum of a  
day's pay.  
Section 8. Employers shall furnish suitable shelter  
to protect engineers from falling material and  
weather,  
Section 9. All ordinary repairs on a machine or  
boiler shall be done by the engineer operating same.  
44  
Section 10. Any work required on an engine,  
machine, or boiler shall be done by the regular crew  
thereon, and they shall not be required to operate  
any other machine, engine, or boiler. In case of an  
equipment breakdown involving delay, the operator  
or crew of such equipment may be moved to an idle  
machine on the same job for the remainder of that  
day only.  
Section 11. Each Employer of six (6) or more engi-  
neers (excluding engineers and apprentices)  
on any one (1) shift, on any one (1) job, shall employ  
a qualified master mechanic.  
(a) When the engineer, or the crew, on a rented  
machine remains on the payroll of the owner of  
such machine, said engineer, or crew, shall be  
counted as though on the payroll of the Employer  
hiring such machine in determining che obliga-  
tion of the Employer to employ a master  
mechanic.  
(b) The master mechanic shall not operate any  
machine except tn cases of emergency, or to dem-  
onstrate, except that when less than eight (8)  
machines are involved he/she shall work with the  
tools. When there are eight (8) or more machines  
involved, he/she shall supervise tepairs on  
machines.  
Section 12. Maintenance engineers duties shall  
include the installing of wellpoint systems, tempo-  
rary piping, repairs, operating of valves controlling  
45  
air and steam pressure furnished from permanent  
power plant.  
(a) This language shall mean chat on a job  
where a maintenance mechanic is in the employ  
of an Employer using plant air or steam, such  
maintenance mechanic shall, among his other  
duties, be assigned to the operation of the plant  
air or steam valve.  
(b) In addition, if no maintenance mechanic is  
employed, but the Employer using the plant air  
has an engineer assigned to a compressor opera-  
tion, then the operation of the air valve shall be  
an additional duty of such engineer, provided such  
plane air is being used co supplement the same  
function as the compressor operation.  
(c) Furchermore, if no maintenance engineer is  
employed, bur che Employer using plant steam  
has in his employ an engineer assigned to a heat-  
ing operation then the operation of che steam  
valve shall be an additional duty of such engineer  
provided such plant steam is being used to sup-  
plement the heating operation.  
(d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of  
this Agreement, a steam valve used only for tem-  
porary heat need not be manned.  
Section 13. Submersible electric pumps, when used  
in place of a conventional wellpoint system and con-  
nected to a2 common header on one (1) level and in  
one (1) foundation, shall be manned che same as the  
wellpoint system.  
46  
Section 14, When a single diaphragm pump is used  
more than two (2) hours in any one (1) day, an engi-  
neer shall be employed at a minimum of a day.  
Section 15. Single diaphragm pumps and one-bag  
mixers, gasoline or electric power, may be grouped  
on job sires as follows:  
(a) Two (2) or three (3) of these machines, one  
(1) engineer.  
(b)} Four (4) or more of these machines, two (2)  
engineers as the conditions require.  
Section 16. Concrete mixers with  side-loading  
equipment, machines wich hoisting equipment, cen-  
crifugal pumps, compressors, or mixers over one-bag  
capacity shall not be considered to be under the  
above mentioned group plan.  
Section 17. When an extra machine is attached to a  
machine or boiler, the engineer shall receive cen (10)  
hours additional pay per week when the exetra  
machine is on straight time. When the extra  
machine ts on broken time, engineers shall receive  
two (2) hours additional pay per day for each day or  
part of a day the machine is in operation. An extra  
machine cannot be rated straight time when che  
machine is on broken time. The only machines car-  
rying chese rates are as follows:  
(a) Concrete mixers, pumps, compressors.  
Section 18, Heaters may be grouped on job site as  
follows:  
(a) One (1) to five (5) heaters, one (1) engineer.  
47  
(b) Every multiple of five (5) heaters,  
or part thereof shall require an additional engineer.  
Section 19. On jobs where no master mechanic is  
required, an engineer employed in the operation of  
equipment outlined in Group IL], may ac the option  
_of che Employer, be required co maintain, service and  
repair equipment and in such case shall receive main-  
tenance mechanic’s wages. The Employer agrees to  
make a sincere effort to cake full advantage of chis  
provision for added ucilization of Group Ill  
engineers.  
Section 20. An engineer shall be employed during  
the erection of all hoists and derricks to be operated  
by engineers and during both che erection and dis-  
mantling of a cower crane. When the hoisting engine  
is not employed in che dismantling of a hoist or  
derrick, no engineer is required during the  
dismantling.  
Section 21. Assistant engineer/apprentices required  
to work before starting time or after quitting time,  
shall be paid overtime computed in one-quarter ('/4)  
hour periods, and any fractional parc of such period  
shall count as one-quarter ('/4) hour ac the premium  
rate.  
Section 22. Cabs on cranes, as well as driver cabs on  
truck cranes, shall be equipped with heaters. All  
equipment shall be provided with suitable and safe  
means for getting on and off.  
48  
Section 23. Any engineer or assistant engineer (fire-  
man, oiler, or apprentice) required to stay away from  
home over night shall be compensated for reasonable  
room and board costs.  
Section 24, Engineers (except those set forth in  
Group III, Schedule of Wages) and assistant engi-  
neers (firemen, oilers, or apprentices) employed by an  
Employer who is regularly engaged in specialty busi-  
ness (such as caisson work, pile driving, or steel erec-  
tion) and which Employer pays subsistence to any of  
his employees shall receive subsistence in an amount  
not less than che greatest amount paid by che  
Employer co any of his employees.  
Section 25. An engineer who is required by his  
Employer, by the Boiler Inspection Laws, or by the  
law, tn order to preserve his license, to care for the  
boiler on which he is employed on holidays and Sat-  
urdays and Sundays in cold weather, shall receive not  
less chan four (4) hours additional pay for such serv-  
ice at the rate at which he is employed.  
Section 26. Engineers required to get up steam  
before 8:00 a.m. shall receive one (1) hour's pay at  
the double time rate.  
Section 27, When an extra boiler is required to fur-  
nish steam for a machine, an additional engineer  
shall be employed to take care of it.  
Section 28. A coffee break of reasonable time shall  
be allowed, in the morning, with the understanding  
that one (1) person shall be allowed ro get che coffee,  
49  
and che remaining engineers shal! not leave the job  
site. The break shall stare when che coffee is brought  
co the job site. This privilege shall not be abused.  
Section 29, Daily rate on cruck cranes and cherry  
pickers shall be available only to those Employers  
who are regularly engaged in che rencal of such  
equipment co any other person or company.  
Part C — Article VI  
### RENTED CRANES, TRUCK CRANES  
### CHERRY PICKERS — TRAVEL and SUBSISTENCE  
Section !, Operating engineers and assistant engt-  
neers (oilers and apprentices) employed by an  
Employer who is regularly engaged in the business  
of rencing cranes, truck cranes, or cherry pickers (or  
similar type hoisting equipment) shall receive travel  
or subsistence allowance as follows:  
(a) On any job, location, or the  
Employer shall pay daily travel expense ac che rare  
of thircy (30) cents per mile, each way, for each  
mile distant beyond twenty (20) miles between  
the job location, or project and the Employer's  
permanent yard.  
(b) An employee who uses his own vehicle as  
an escort vehicle shall be patd travel expenses at  
the rate of eighty-five (85) cents per mile for such  
use. The Milo-Mileage Guide may be used as an  
aid in determining the distances referred to in “a”  
and “b” above. An employee required to stay away  
from home overnight shall be compensated for  
reasonable room and board costs. An Employee  
50  
receiving such subsistence shal! not receive mile-  
age except at the and end of the job or on  
weekend visits to his home. When such weekend  
mileage ts paid, the employee shall not receive  
subsistence for the weekend.  
An employee shall noc receive mileage when he  
is traveling on the Employer's equipment.  
(c) An Employer, who requires an employee to  
move equipment to any job location, project, or  
yard and such assignment causes the employee to  
be without his own vehicle, shali provide the  
employee with back to his own  
vehicle. Such transportation shall be provided at  
the job, location, project, or yard, and when the  
employee is required to wait for such transporta-  
tion beyond the end of his work day, he shall be  
paid overtime in one-half ('/2) hour pertods.  
Section 2. Engineers or assistant engineers employed  
on a daily basis shall be employed each day the  
machine on which he is employed is assigned to a  
job. Apprentices, employed tn the Truck Crane  
Rental Industry, shall be employed consistent with  
the terms and conditions of their indenture. A  
machine shall be considered assigned to a job on the  
day the machine is dispatched to a job, and for each  
subsequent day the machine is on such job. There-  
after, a machine shall be considered to be unassigned  
to a job when the boom ts folded or retracted or:  
(a) It as returned to the yard.  
31  
(b) Ir is removed from a job and parked on some  
location other than a job site.  
(c) Because of unusual craffic conditions, the  
machine is parked on the job to which it had been  
assigned.  
(d) The machine is moved to, and parked on,  
another job site and is to be activated on a day  
subsequent to the day following the day on which  
it is parked on such sire.  
(e) When a truck crane of 250 ton rated capac-  
ity or more is assigned to a job and, because of its  
sizé, it is not feasible to remove it from the site,  
thus indicating the rermination of the assignment,  
the crew may be paid off in accordance with Arci-  
cle VIM], except chat such payment shal! be made  
at the daily rate.  
Section 3. An Employer desiring to change from  
daily rate to weekly race, or vice-versa, shall change  
al} engineers and assistant engineers in his employ  
accordingly (excluding maintenance mechanics), and  
may not change again for a twelve (12) month  
period.  
Section 4. The regular work day shall be 7:00 a.m.  
to 3:30 p.m. Employees on equipment assigned to a  
job with an 8:00 a.m. starting cime, shall assume the  
8:00 a.m. starting time beginning on che second cay  
and such procedure shall prevail on any subsequent  
return to the same job. All work in excess of eight  
(8) hours per day, and all work performed on Sat-  
52  
   
urday and Sunday will be paid at che rate of double  
time.  
Section 5. Engineers and assistant engineer/appren-  
tices, when ordered out on a Saturday, Sunday or  
Holiday, shall not be bound by the starting cimes  
defined above, chey shall receive a guarantee of eight  
(8) hours work at che premium time rate unless the  
inclement weather clause applies.  
Section 6. In case of an equipment breakdown, the  
operator or crew of such equipment may be moved  
to another piece of equipment to which no operaror  
or crew is assigned. An Employer wishing to imple-  
ment this provision must have previously provided  
the Local with a list of machines and rhe employees  
assigned to such machines.  
Section 7. An employee, when called back to work  
after having completed the regular work day, shall  
be paid overtime for the hours intervening between  
the end of his regular work day and his return to  
work on the same job.  
Section 8. Two (2) days employment in any week  
shall qualify an employee for holiday pay. The  
Employer agrees not to manipulate assignments tn  
such a way as to disqualify an employee for holiday  
pay.  
Part C — Article Vil  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  
The Master Document ~ Parts One, Two and  
Three, together with Part C the Section for the Labor  
33  
Relations Division of che Associated General Con-  
tractors and the Building Trades Employers Associ-  
ation of Boston and Eastern Massachusetts expresses  
the complete understanding of the parties on the  
subject of working conditions, hours of labor, and all  
other conditions of employment, including wages.  
Part C — Article VHI  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
Should any Arcicle or section of rhese Agreements  
be found to be in violation of any Scate or Federal  
Law then that Article or section shall be null and  
void, but the rest of the Agreement shall continue  
as a valid Agreement between the parties. However,  
both parties will endeavor, by negotiations, to  
replace such provisions as may be declared null and  
void so as to conform with the law.  
54  
### PART TWO  
### MASTER DOCUMENT  
Part Two — Article XI  
### HEALTH & WELFARE, PENSION,  
### ANNUITY & SAVINGS  
### COOPERATIVE TRUST, APPRENTICE AND  
### CIM INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUNDS  
Section 1. Each Employer who is a party to chis  
Agreement agrees co and shall pay and contribute an  
amount equal co that shown under “Schedule of  
Wages” in this Agreement to rhe following Funds:  
(a) International Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 Health and Welfare Fund, hereinafter  
referred to as the “Welfare Fund.”  
(b) International Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 Pension Fund, hereinafter referred to as  
the “Pension Fund.”  
(c) International Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 Annuity & Savings 401(k) Fund, herein-  
after referred to as the “Annuity and Savings  
Funds.”  
(d) Hotsting and Portable Engineers Local 4  
Apprentice and Training Program, hereinafter  
referred to as the “Apprentice Program Fund.”  
(e) International Union of Operating Engineers  
Local 4 Labor Management Cooperative Trust,  
hereinafter referred to as the “Cooperative  
Trust.”  
35  
(f) CIM Industry Advancement Fund, herein-  
after referred to as the “Industry Advancement  
Fund.”  
Each Employer who is party co this Agreement  
agrees to be bound by the terms of the respective  
Declarations of Trust, and any amendments thereto,  
and designates as its representatives on the Boards of  
Trustees such Trustees as have been designated  
Employer Trustees in the manner provided in che  
Agreements and Declarations of Trust.  
Section 2. The respective rates per hour as shown in  
the “Schedule of Wages” in the Agreement shall  
be paid for each payroll hour (with the exception of  
Annuity contributions, an overtime hour for this  
purpose shall be considered a single hour) and pro-  
portionately for each part of such an hour for each  
person covered by this Agreement and employed on  
construction projects on which the Employer shall  
be engaged or otherwise in che hire of the Employer.  
Overtime contributions to the Annuity Fund shall  
be paid ac time and one-half for all classifications of  
overtime.  
(a) Upon proper written on a form  
furnished by the Local Union, the Employer may  
withhold from che employee's gross wage before  
any deduction for taxes, an amount as established  
from time to time by the Annuity Trustees, for  
deposit in the Annuity & Savings 401(k) Plan, a  
Retirement Plan intended to qualify under the  
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of  
1974 (ERISA).  
56  
Section 3. On or before the nineteenth day of each  
month, the said payment shall be due and payable  
for all such payroll periods ending the next preceding  
month; except that in the case of contributions to  
the Annuity and Savings 401(k) Plan the contribu-  
tions shall be due at the date they are first reasonably  
segragable, but no later than the nineteenth day of  
the month. In the case of operations of less than a  
month's duration, or in the case of Employers who  
are delinquent in payments, the payment  
shall be due weekly and payable within three (3) days  
after the end of the payroll week.  
Section 4. Payments not received at the Fund  
Office by the last day of the month following the  
month during which the work was performed  
will be assessed interest at the rate of one (1%)  
percent per month, except that interest due on  
late Annuity and Savings Plan 401(k) payments  
shall be assessed in accordance with the rules  
and regulations of the Department of Labor.  
Section 5. The Employer agrees that the obli-  
gations to make paymentes shall be on a parity with  
and enforceable, with respect to each Fund, as the  
obligation to pay wages, and this inclusive of the  
incident to and in proceedings for the relief  
of debtors; and this Article shall bind all legal rep-  
resentatives, successors, and assigns of an Employer.  
Section 6. The Trustees, or representatives when  
authorized by the Trustees in each case, shall have  
the right to inspect ac all reasonable times, the indi-  
57  
vidual payroll records and such other records of an  
Employer as are deemed necessary and pertinent to  
determine whether such Employer is making due  
and full payment of its Employer Contributions.  
Section 7. Failure of the Employer to comply with  
this Article or any part chereof may be treated by  
the Local as a breach of the working agreement  
berween the Local and che defaulting Employer; and  
notwithstanding other provisions of this Agreement  
(Arbitration Article XVII, or otherwise to the con-  
trary, immediate work stoppage and use of picket  
lines againse such defaulting Employer are permit-  
ted. Any cost, inclusive of legal fees, incurred by the -  
Local, or the Funds, in the collection of obligations  
to make payment due the Welfare, Pension, Annuity,  
Annuity & Savings, Cooperative Trust, Industry  
Advancement, and Apprentice Program Funds shall  
be borne by the defaulting Employer.  
Section 8. Notwithstanding any termination or can-  
cellation under this Agreement or otherwise, the  
obligations of this Article and of the several Decla-  
cations of Trust shall be deemed continuous and the  
Health and Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Annuity  
Fund, Annuity & Savings Fund, Cooperative Trust,  
Industry Advancement and Apprentice Program  
Fund shall not be discontinued pending negotiations  
of a new Agreement.  
Section 9. The Healch & Welfare, Pension, Annuity,  
Annuity & Savings, Cooperative Trust and Appren-  
tice Program Funds shall be respectively adminis-  
58  
tered by three (3) Trustees appointed and/or elected  
by che Local and three (3) Trustees appointed by rhe  
Association (unless it shall be mutually agreed to  
decrease the number of Trustees or to consolidate the  
Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Annuity Fund, Annu-  
ity & Savings Fund, Cooperative Trust and Appren-  
tice Program Fund with the Funds respective of  
other similar Funds) under one or more Agreements  
and Declarations of Trust as they are or shall be exe-  
cuted by such Trustees.  
Section 10. The Welfare Fund shall be used for che  
purpose of providing health and welfare benefits for  
employees covered by this Agreement and their  
dependents by means of insurance or otherwise at the  
discretion of the Trustees.  
Section 11, The Pension Fund shall be used for the  
purpose of providing pension benefits for employees  
covered by this Agreement by means of insurance or  
otherwise at the discretion of the Trustees.  
Sectzon 12, The Annuity and Savings Fund shall be  
used for the purpose of providing pension benefits  
for employees covered by this Agreement by means  
of investments, Annuity contracts or otherwise at the  
discretion of the Trustees.  
Section 13. The 401(k) component of the Annuity  
& Savings Fund shall be used to assist the members  
in attaining their savings objectives,  
Section 14. The Apprentice Program Fund shall be  
used for the purpose of providing and defraying costs  
of apprenticeship or other training programs.  
39  
Section 15. The Cooperative Trust shall be used for  
the purposes set forth in the Trust Agreement estab-  
lishing said Trust.  
Section 16. An Employer shall have the option of  
contributing or not contributing to the Joint Labor/  
Management Cooperative Trust, the Industry  
Advancement Fund and/or the Foundation For Fair  
Contracting of Massachusetts as provided herein. In  
the event the Employer opts not to contribute to one  
or more of the above named Funds, the amount of  
such contribution shall be added to the hourly wage  
rates contained herein. Each signatory Association  
may exercise this option for its members; non-asso-  
ciation Employers shall exercise this option on an  
individual basis.  
Section 17. From cime to time the Building Com-  
mittee, established to provide for increased industry  
requirements, shall determine what additional  
Employer contributions, if any, are required to keep  
the Apprentice Program Fund fiscally sound.  
Part Two — Article XU  
### LIABILITY INSURANCE  
Each Employer shall, withouc cost to che  
employee, provide Liability Insurance coverage in the  
amount of $300,000 to $500,000 for all employees  
covered by this Agreement.  
60  
Part Two — Article XI  
### OVERLOADED OR IMPROPERLY  
### REGISTERED VEHICLES  
Section 1. No employee shall be held responsible for  
equipment not properly registered or because a per-  
mit was not obtained under any applicable law or  
regulation or for overloading a vehicle or for oper-  
ating a vehicle or other equipment which is over-  
loaded. In any such case, the Employer will assume  
the legal costs involved in the defense of the  
employee and shall pay any fines or other assessments  
levied against the employee. The Employer shall  
reimburse the employee for any working time lost in  
connection with any such proceeding.  
Section 2. In the event the operating  
license is suspended for reasons stated herein, the  
Employer shall be liable for the work opportunity  
lost at no less than his regular earnings.  
Part Two ~ Article XIV  
### DUES DEDUCTION  
Section 1, It is agreed that the Employer shall  
deduct one and one quarter (11/4%) percent of the  
gross wage and benefit package before any deduction  
for taxes, provided the employee has executed a writ-  
ten authorization for such deduction. All such deduc-  
tions shall be reported monthly on one form along  
with all the other Funds provided for in the Agree-  
ment. One check covering the total of all the Funds  
shall be sent along with rhe one (1) form in accor-  
dance with the provisions of Article XI.  
61  
Section 2. It shall be the sole responsibility of the  
Local to procure, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-  
tion 302 (c) of the Labor Management Relations Act  
of 1947, the signed individual auchorization of every  
employee subject to this Agreement, both present  
and future. The Local shall indemnify and hold  
harmless the Employer from any claims arising under  
this Article including the furnishing of counsel co  
defend against any such actions.  
Part Two — Article XV  
### SOCIAL and POLITICAL ACTION  
### COMMITTEES  
Section 1. The Social and Political Action Commit-  
cee’s (SAC/PAC) Funds, administered by che Local  
shall be funded by a five (5) cents per hour  
payroll deduction, the purpose of which shall be to  
enable the Local to participate more fully in matters  
affecting the welfare of ics members. Ir is agreed that  
the Employer shall deduct five (5) cents from gross  
wages before any deduction for taxes for each payroll  
hour as defined in Article XI, provided the employee  
has executed a written authorization for such deduc-  
tion. All such deductions shall be reported monthly  
on one form along with all che other Funds provided  
for in che Agreement. One check covering the cotal  
of all the Funds shall be sent along with che one  
form in accordance with the provisions of Article XI.  
Section 2. It shall be the sole responsibility of che  
Local to procure, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-  
tion 302 (c) of the Labor Management Relations Act  
62  
of 1947, the signed individual authorization of every  
employee subject to this Agreement, both present  
and fucure. The Local shall indemnify and hold  
harmless the Employer from any claims arising under  
this Article including the furnishing of counsel to  
defend against any such actions.  
Part Two — Article XVI  
### FOUNDATION FOR FAIR CONTRACTING and  
### CIM INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUND  
Each Employer who is party to this Agreement  
agrees to and shall pay and contribute two (2) cents  
per hour on behaif of the Foundation for Fair Con-  
tracting. All such payments and contributions shall  
be reported monchly on one (1) form along with the  
contributions due the LMCT. The Local reserves the  
right at each subsequent may 31, to give adequate  
notice of its withdrawal from the Foundation for Fair  
Contracting, and the right to use these funds to  
establish an in-house prevailing wage enforcement  
and monitoring program.  
Each Employer subscribes to and agrees to be  
bound by the CIM Industry Advancement Program  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust and any amend-  
ments thereto and ratifies and approves all acrions of  
the Trustees within the scope of said Agreement. The  
Industry Advancement Fund shall be administered  
solely and exclusively by Trustees appointed pursu-  
ant to che provisions of the Trust instrument.  
In the event that the Union has reasonable cause  
to believe that the Industry Advancement Fund is  
63  
being used for any of the purposes prohibiced by this  
Agreement, the dispute shall be subject ro the arbi-  
tration provisions of this Agreement.  
Each Employer who is party co this Agreement  
agrees to and shall pay and contribute five (5) cents  
per hour on behalf of the Industry Advancement  
Fund. All such payments and contributions shall be  
included in the contributions due the LMCT.  
Part Two — Article XVH  
### ARBITRATION  
Section 1. In case of any dispute, including the dis-  
charge of an employee, an employee and the  
Employer, or any misunderstanding in che interpre-  
tation of chis Agreement, the matter shall be referred  
to che Employer and Business Agent of the Local,  
and the matter shall, failing adjustment, be adjusted  
as hereinafter provided.  
Section 2. It is agreed that a Joint Board of Inter-  
pretation composed of two (2) members of the Local  
and two (2) members appointed by che Association  
shall be established, to whom shall be referred any  
dispute arising over the interpretation of this Agree-  
ment, and the decision of such Board shall be final.  
The Board shall make its decision within seventy-  
two (72) hours. In the event of the failure of che  
Joint Board of Interpretation to arrive at a solution,  
an Umpire shall be chosen by them. If the parties  
are unable co agree upon an Umpire, the matter shall  
be referred to the American Arbitration Association.  
The decision of che Umpire shall! be final.  
64  
Section 3. The parties agree chat said Umpire shall  
have no power co alter, amend, or modify any of the  
expressed provisions of this Agreement.  
Section 4. The parties hereto ayree that there shal!  
be no suspension of work or establishment of picket  
lines during the time any dispute shall exist unless  
the Employer refuses to agree to arbitration or fails  
to comply with che arbitratton award.  
Section 5. The parties recognize chat chere ts a vol-  
untary Plan for che Sectlemenc of Jurisdictional Dis-  
putes in the Construction Induscry. The parties  
hereto agree to abide by and conform to all rules and  
decisions of che Plan.  
Part Two — Article  
### SEVERAL LIABILITY  
The obligation of each Employer member of the  
Assoctation shall be several and not joint. Each  
Employer member is bound for the duration of this  
Agreement.  
Part Two — Article XIX  
### BONDING  
Section 1. The Employer may, at che discretion of  
the Business Manager, be required to provide a sur-  
ety bond to guarantee payment to the Health & Wel-  
fare, Pension, Annuity, Annuity & Savings,  
Cooperative Trust and Apprenticeship and Training  
Funds as well as payment of dues and Social and  
Political Action payroll deductions  
under any one of the following circumstances:  
65  
(a) An Employer wich no prior contribution his-  
tory to the 1.U.0.E. Local 4 Fringe Benefit Funds.  
(b) An Employer who becomes sixty (60) days  
or more delinquent in submitting payment of con-  
tributions due.  
Section 2. An Employer who is required ro furnish  
a bond under chis Arcicle will be released from its  
obligation after a twelve (12) consecutive month  
period during which it was not delinquent in its  
contributions.  
Section 3. Copies of the bond and/or renewal certif-  
icate from the bonding company indicating the bond  
has been purchased and paid for by che Employer  
‘must be furnished co che Local or Fringe Benefic  
Office.  
Section 4. The amount of bond shal! be six (6) times  
the estimated monthly coral contributions, but nor  
less than $25,000.  
Section 5. Whenever an Employer is over one (1)  
month in default of payment to the Health & Wel-  
fare, Pension, Annuicy, Annuity & Savings, Appren-  
ticeship and Training Funds or Cooperative Trust, or  
payment of Dues and SAC/PAC payroll deductions,  
and reasonable notice of such default is given to the  
Employer, the Local may remove its members from  
the work of said Employer, all other provisions of  
this Agreement notwithstanding.  
(a) If such members as are removed remain on  
the work site during che regular working hours,  
66  
   
they shall be paid for che lost time, not to exceed  
three (3) day's pay.  
Section 6. The Trustees may at cheir discretion,  
require any Employer who becomes sixty (60) days  
or more delinquent in its contributions to make  
weekly reports and payments of contributions.  
Part Two — Article XX  
### DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION  
### and DETECTION  
The parties recognize the problems which drug  
abuse have created in the construction industry and  
the need to develop drug abuse prevention programs.  
Accordingly, the parties agree that in order to  
enhance the of the work place and to maincain  
a drug free work environment, individual Employers  
may require applicants or employees to undergo drug  
screening. The agree that if a screening pro-  
gram is implemented by an individual Employer, the  
following items have been agreed upon by Labor and  
Management:  
Section 1, Ic is understood chat the use, possession,  
transfer, or sale of illegal drugs, narcotics, or other  
untawful substances is absolutely prohibited while  
employees are on the Employer’s job premises or  
while working on any site in connection with work  
performed under the applicable agreement.  
Section 2. All applicants or newly hired employees  
will undergo a drug screen at a facility agreed upon  
by the Employer and the Local. The Employer agrees  
67  
to pay each applicant or employee who cakes and  
passes the drug screen test for all rhe time it takes  
to undergo the drug screen up to a maximum of two  
hours travel cime plus lab time. This paragraph shall  
not apply co applicants who have worked for che  
employer within the prior 18 months of che dace of  
application for re-employment.  
Section 3. Applicants noc passing che drug screen  
will noc be placed on che Employer's payroll or  
receive any compensation. Employees not passing the  
drug screen will be removed from the Employer's  
payroll. The Employer agrees to pay che cost for  
administering the drug screen.  
Section 4, The Employer may require an  
employee be cested for drugs where the Employer  
has reasonable cause to believe chat the employee is  
impaired from performing his/her job. Observation  
must be made by at least two (2) persons, one of  
whom may be a Local Union employee. This provi-  
sion shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner.  
Supervisors will administer the program in a fair and  
confidential manner. For employees who refuse to  
take a test where the prerequisites sec forth in this  
paragraph have been met, there will be a rebuccable  
presumption that the cese result would have been  
positive for an unlawful substance.  
Section 5. An Employer may require chat an  
employee who contributed to an accident be tested  
for drugs where the Employer has reasonable cause  
to believe chat the accident resulted from drug usage.  
Section 6. There will be no random drug testing by  
the signatory Employer.  
Section 7. It is understood that the unsafe use of  
prescribed medication, or where the use of prescribed  
medication impairs the employee's ability to perform  
work, is a basis for removal.  
Section 8. A sufficient amount of a sample shall be  
taken co allow for an inicial teste and a confirmation  
test. The initial test will be by Enzyme Multiplied  
Immunoassay Technique (EMIT). In the event a  
question or positive results arises from the initial  
test, a confirmation test must be utilized before final  
action can be caken against the employee or appli-  
cant. The parties recognize that in most cases the  
Employer will not be aware of any positive results  
arising from an initial teste uncil after che results of  
the confirmation test are made known; however  
should the employee be suspended based on any ini-  
tial cest results and the confirmation test indicates  
that the initial test was erroneous and the confir-  
mation test is negative, the employee shall be rein-  
stated with all lost earnings. The confirmation test  
will be by Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry  
(GC/MS). Testing scandards for both the initial tese  
and confirmation cest will be those established by  
the National Insticute of Drug Abuse. Confirmed  
positive samples will be retained by the testing lab-  
oratory in secured long-term frozen storage for a  
minimum of one year. Handling and transportation  
of each sample must be documented through strict  
chain of custody procedures.  
69  
Section 9. Present employees, if tesced positive, shall  
have the prerogative for a program at  
the employee’s expense. When such program has  
been successfully completed, che Employer shall not  
discriminate in any way against the employee. If  
work for which the employee is qualified exists, he  
or she shall be reinstated.  
Section 10. Any dispute which arises under this  
drug policy shall be submitted cto the grievance and  
arbitration procedure set forth in the applicable  
Agreement.  
Section 11. In che event an individual Employer is  
required, as a condition of contract award, co abide  
. by the terms and conditions of an owner's drug pol-  
icy, the Employer will nocify che interested unions  
in writing prior co implementing such policy.  
Section 12. The or operation of chis  
policy shall not curtail any right of an employee  
found in any law, rule, or regulation. Should any part  
of chis policy be found unlawful by a court of com-  
petene jurisdiction or a public agency having juris-  
diction over the parcies, che remaining portions of  
the policy shall be and the parties shal!  
enter negotiations to replace che affected provision.  
Section 13. The Employer shal! indemnify and hold  
the Local harmless againse any and all! claims,  
demands, suits or liabilities that may arise solely out  
of the Employer's application of the Substance Abuse  
Program.  
70  
Part Two — Article XXI  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
The parties recognize che threat of unfair compe-  
tition in certain areas and types of work, from con-  
tractors who do not conform to che standards  
provided in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
Therefore, within five (5) days of the advertising date  
of any job that comes within the above category, the  
Employer may requese a pre-bid conference for the  
purpose of analyzing any difficulties which he may  
have in bidding said job. It is expressly understood  
that no modification or deviation may be made from  
the existing Collective Bargaining Agreement except  
by mutual agreement of the parties. Ie is further  
understood that no matter arising hereunder shall be  
subject to arbitration. It is the intent of the parties  
that chis procedure will be utilized in unusual cir-  
cumstances and chat the Employer will not invoke  
this procedure except in such circumstances.  
Part Two — Article XXH  
### WORKERS’ COMPENSATION  
During the life of chis Contract, and by mutual  
agreement, the parties may meet to confer concern-  
ing the establishment of a collectively bargained dis-  
pute resolution system or other obligations and  
procedures as authorized by G.L. c.152, 10B and  
LOC. Neither party may be compelled to bargain  
concerning these subjects during the term of this  
Agreement, agree on a system, obligation or proce-  
dure, or unilaterally impose the systems, obligations,  
71  
or procedures. If an agreement is reached, chat agree-  
ment shall include the effective date of the systems,  
obligations or procedures.  
Part Two — Article XXII}  
### TERMINATION  
The terms and conditions of the Agreements between the  
Labor Relations Division — Construction Industries of  
Massachusetts, the Foundation & Marine Contractors  
Association of New England, Inc., the Building Trades  
Employers Association of Boston and Eastern Massachu-  
setts, the Labor Relations Division of the Associated Gen-  
eral Contractors -of Massachusetts, Inc., and the  
International Union of Operating Engineers Local 4 and  
its Branches, effective June 1, 2005, shall continue to and  
include May 31, 2008. These Agreements shall continue  
to be effective from year to year thereafter unless either party  
to an Agreement, at least sixty (60) days prior to May  
31, 2008, or prior to May 31st in any year thereafter  
gives notice in writing to the other party of its intention to  
terminate said Agreement and request that negotiations be  
entered into for its alteration or amendment.  
In the event that the parties hereto cannot reach an agree-  
ment at least thirty (30) days prior to May 31st of any  
year, such party shall give notice of the failure to reach  
such agreement to the Federal Mediation Service and the  
Massachusetts Board of Conciliation and Arbitration.  
72  
### FOR THE EMPLOYERS  
The Labor Relations Division  
Construction Industries of Massachusetts, Inc.  
The Foundation & Marine  
Contractors Association of New England, Inc.  
The Building Trades Employers  
Association of Boston and  
Eastern Massachusetts, Inc.  
The Labor Relations Division  
Associated Genera! Contractors of  
Massachusetts, Inc.  
### FOR THE UNION  
Louis G. Rasetta, Business Manager  
William D. McLaughlin, President  
Norman A. Teed, Recording Secretary  
Business Representatives  
Kevin P. Bennett  
Ronald C. Burnap  
David F. Fantini  
Christopher T, Fogarty  
Rodney A. Gillespie  
John C. Panaro, Jr  
73  
### WITNESS  
IN WITNESS the parties hereto  
have caused these presents to be signed by  
their duly authorized representatives and have  
affixed hereto the seals of their respective  
organizations, the day and year first above  
written.  
### FOR THE,LABOR RELATIONS FOR THE UNION  
### DIVISION CONSTRUCTION  
### INDUSTRIES OF  
### MASSACHUSETTS  
### JOHN D. O'REILLY, Hf LOUIS G. RASETTA  
By: Business Manager  
### COUNSEL WILLIAM D. McLAUGHLIN  
Title: President  
August 8, 2005 NORMAN A, TEED  
Date: Recording Secretary  
August 8, 2005  
Date:  
### FOUNDATION &  
### MARINE  
### CONTRACTORS  
### ASSOCIATION  
### OF NEW ENGLAND  
### JOUN S. DAVAGIAN, H, ESQ.  
By:  
### COUNSEL  
Title:  
August 10, 2005  
Dare:  
74  
### WITNESS  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto  
have caused these presents to be signed by  
their duly authorized representatives and have  
affixed hereto the seals of their respective  
organizations, the day and year first above  
written.  
### FOR THE GUILDING TRADES FOR THE UNION  
### EMPLOYERS ASSOCIATION  
### OF BOSTON AND  
### EASTERN MASSACHUSETTS  
### THOMAS J. GUNNING LOUIS G. RASETTA  
By: Business Manager  
### EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR WILLIAM D. McLAUGHLIN  
Title: President  
Auguste 11, 2005 NORMAN A. TEED  
Date: Recording Secretary  
8, 2005  
Date:  
### FOR THE LABOR  
### RELATIONS DIVISION OF  
### THE ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF MASSACHUSETTS  
### DAVID P. POWELL  
By:  
### DIRECTOR OF  
### LABOR RELATIONS  
Title:  
August 17, 2005  
Date:  
7)  
### DL  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION of OPERATING ENGINEERS — LOCAL #4  
Wage Settlement June 1, 2005 — May 31, 2008  
### WAGE SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE 06/01/05  
   
   
### MASSACHUSETTS  
Classification * 12/1/05 * * 12/1/06 *6/1/07  
GROUP 1 $33.31 $34.51 $35.51 $36.91 $37.91 $39.31  
Daily Rate (Per Hour) 37.87 39.24 40.37 41.96 43.10 44.68  
GROUP la (Boom length)  
Over 150 feet $ 1.66 $ 1.70 $ 1.74 $ 1.79 $ 1.83 $ 1.88  
Over 185 feet 2.92 2.99 3.05 3.14 3.21 3.30  
Over 210 feet 4.11 4.21 4.29 4.42 4.51 4.64  
Over 250 feet 6.23 6.38 6.51 6.70 6.83 7.03  
Over 295 feet 8.63 8.84 9.02 9.28 9.47 9.74  
Over 350 feet 10.04 10.29 10.50 10.80 11.02 11.33  
GROUP Ib $37.87 $39.24 $40.37 $41.96 $43.10 $44.68  
GROUP Ic $34.31 $35.51 $36.51 $37.91 $38.91 $40.31  
GROUP Il $33.05 $34.25 $35.24. $36.63 $37.62 $39.01  
GROUP III $25.21 $26.12 $26.88 $27.95 $28.70 $29.77  
  
Ld  
Classification  
### GROUP IV  
a. Fireman  
b. Other than TC/Gradalt  
c. TE or Gradall  
d. Daily Rate (TC)  
e, Scow Rate  
Daily Rate Differential  
### GROUP Ii  
### GROUP III  
Tunnel Differential  
Health & Welfare  
Pension  
Apprenticeship  
Annuity  
Labor Management Cooperative  
Trust  
### OTHER:  
6/1/05  
$  
$  
$  
$  
28.91  
20.53  
22,80  
25.04  
24.92  
  
2.05  
onde  
7.38  
5.10  
0.35  
3.00  
0.53  
* 12/1/05  
$29.95  
21.28  
23.63  
25.94  
*611/06  
$30.82  
21.90  
24.31  
26.70  
26.57  
$ 3.39  
$ 2.14  
$ 2,63  
7.38  
5.10  
0,35  
3.00  
0.53  
* Dues Assessmenc: 1'/4% deducted from cocal Wage and Benefit Package.  
* Social and Potitical Action Committees, $0.05 per hour.  
*The Local may, at its option, utilize parts of chese increments for increases to Health & Welfare, Pension, Annuity, Social and  
Potitical Action Committees, Dues Deduction and the Foundation for Fair Contracting.  
* Of the 53 cents payable to LMCT, 2 cents will be remitced co che Foundation for Fair Contracting, and 5 cents will be remicted  
co the Industry Advancement Fund.  
* HAZARDOUS WASTE; Engineers required to work in the HOT ZONE wil! receive a $2.00 an hour wage  
*12/1/06  
$32.04  
22.77  
25.28  
27.75  
27.62  
$ 3.49  
$ 2.20  
$ 2.71  
7.38  
5.10  
0.35  
3.00  
0.53  
"641107  
$32.91  
23.39  
25.97  
28.51  
28.37  
$ 3.56  
$ 2.25  
$ 2.76  
7.38  
5.10  
0.35  
3.00  
0.53  
  
$34.12  
24.26  
26.93  
29.56  
29.42  
$ 3.66  
$ 2.31  
$ 2.84  
7.38  
5.10  
0.35  
3,00  
0.53  
### BL  
### GROUP I**  
Alpine Miners  
Asphalc Plant on site  
Augers & Lo-Drills  
Backhoes (Excavators)  
Bobcars when used as  
Frone End Loaders  
Boring Machines  
Cable Ways  
Cement Concrete Pavers  
Cherry Pickers  
Concrete Batching and/or  
Mixing Plants on sire  
Cranes  
Crusher Plants on site  
Derrick Boars  
Derricks  
Draglines  
Elevating Graders  
Elevator Towers  
Fork Lifts  
Front End Loaders  
Gradalls  
Hoisting Engines  
Hoists  
Lighters:  
Daily Rate: (per hour), Same as Group 1b.  
Truck Cranes  
Fork Lifts  
Cherry Pickers  
Mechanical Hoist  
Pavement Breakers  
Micro-Tunneling  
Boring Machines  
Mucking Machines  
Paving Concrece Mixers  
Pile Drivers  
Post Hole Diggers  
Post Hole Hammers  
Power Shovels  
Pumpcrete Machines  
Road Headers  
Rotary Drills  
Combination Hoe/Loader (Case 580 type machine)  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
Shaft Hoisrs  
Shovel Dozers  
Shovels  
Soil Mix Machines  
Steam Engines  
Three Drum Machines  
Timber Jacks  
Trench Hoes  
Trenching Machines  
Truck Cranes  
Two or more Drum Machines  
Uke Loaders  
. Waste Water Plants  
6L  
GROUP la (Boom Lengths)  
Hourly added wages for boom lengths (including jib)  
Over 150 feet  
Over 185 feet  
Over 210 feet See Attached Schedule of Wages  
Over 250 feet  
Over 295 feet  
Over 350 feet  
These rates are applicable to cranes on roof or similar elevated positions. Engineers receiving any of  
the above wage rates shall be paid such rate for the full payroll period, even chough the boom is  
shortened. (See Part One, Article VII, 11, and 12).  
### GROUP Ib**  
Master Mechanics  
Foreman Mechanics  
### GROUP Ic**  
Conventional (cable controlled) Clam Sheil and Slurry Buckets  
Heading Mechanics  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
O08  
### GROUP II**  
Asphalt Pavers  
Ballast Regulators  
Bobcats when used as Bulldozers  
Bulldozers  
Cal Tracks  
Cold Planers  
Concrete Mixers with side loaders  
Concrece Pumps  
Directional Drilling Machines  
Edgers  
Graders  
Grinders  
Grout Pumps  
John Henrys  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
Locomotives or machines used  
in place thereof  
Mechanics, Maintenance  
Mulching Machines  
Paving Concrete Finishing  
Machines  
Paving Screed Machines  
Portable Steam Boilers  
Portable Steam Generators  
Rai! Anchor Machines  
Reclaimers  
Rollers  
Scrapers  
Sonic or Vibratory Hammers  
Spreaders  
Stationary Steam Boilers  
Swinger Engines  
Switch Tampers  
Tampers, Self-propelled or  
Tractor Drawn  
Tandem Scrapers  
Tire Trucks (when operated by  
Employer on job site)  
Track Mounted, Self-Untoading  
Material Movers (with dozer blade)  
Tractors  
York Rakes  
18  
### GROUP I11**  
Augers-Powered by  
independenr engines and  
attached to Pile Drivers  
Compressors  
Concrete Mixers  
Concrete Vibrators  
Conveyors  
Generators  
Heaters (power driven} (1-5)  
Hydraulic Saws  
Industrial Fork Lifts/  
Chisel Trucks  
{hoisting noc over 9 feer)  
Jackson Type Tampers  
Lighting Planes  
PumpXs} (1-3 grouped)  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
Single Diaphragm Pumps  
Syphons-Pulsometers  
Track Mounted, Setf-Untoading  
Matertal Movers  
Valves Controlling Permanent Plane  
Atr Steam  
‘Welding Machines(s) (1-3 grouped)  
Wellpoine Systems (apecating)  
   
28  
   
GROUP 1V** Assistant Engineer  
a. Assistant Engineer:  
b. Assistant Engineer:  
c. Assistance Engineer:  
d. Assiscanr Engineer:  
e. Scow Rare  
Fireman  
Apprentices (other chan Truck Cranes or Gradalls}  
Apprentices (on Truck Cranes or Gradalls)}  
Daily Rate (Truck Cranes)  
**See Attached Schedule of Wages  
* Machines grouped shall be within 200 feet.  
* Any machine not expressly mentioned in the schedule shall be included in che appropriate grouping.  
* High Speed Electric Conveyors, Gee Part One 1, Arcicle VJI, Section 3.  
HELICOPTERS: Whenever a helicopter is used in hoisting and lifting, ic shall be manned by a  
member of the Local at a rate to be established, if and when such type of operation is instituted.  
*  
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Engineers required to work in che HOT ZONE will receive a $2.00 an  
hour wage differencial.  
### INDEX  
Part Article Section  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS ..... Cc  
### BUILDING TRADES  
### EMPLOYERS  
### ASSOCIATION ....... C  
### CONSTRUCTION  
### INDUSTRY of  
### MASSACHUSETTS .... A  
### FOUNDATION and  
### MARINE  
### CONTRACTORS ..... B  
### APPRENTICESHIP ...... One VI  
Classification ,..,....,. One vi 4  
Crane Rental Industry ... One VI 7  
Fringe Benefir Plans .... One VI 5  
Graduate Apprentices .... One Vi  
Hoisting Machines ..... One VI 1&6  
Lay OfF ......,..... One vi 2  
Probationaty ......-.. One Vi 3  
Rao One VI t  
Step Rate Increase... ... One Vi 4  
Transfers 82. 24 wa One VI 8  
ARBITRATION ........ Two  
American Arbitration  
Association Two XVII 2  
Board of Interpretation... Two XVII 2  
Plan for Settlement ..... Two XVI 5  
RIM co os as we Two XVIt 3  
AUGERS .....-...0.... B IV 3  
   
Page  
40  
40  
20  
au  
10  
10  
10  
B&10  
1d  
9  
ii  
64  
64  
64  
65  
65  
32  
### BENEFIT FUNDS .......  
Annuity Fund  
Apprentice Fund .......  
Cooperative Trust ......  
Industry Advancement  
Fund ...........,  
Pension Fund  
Welfare Fund. .....-..  
40}(k) Fund  
### BOILER INSPECTION  
### LAWS  
### BOOM LENGTHS  
Compucing nae wae  
Roofs/Elevated Positions .  
Luffng Booms .....-..,  
Tower Cranes 2...  
### BUILDING COMMITTEE ..  
### CABS 0  
### GAISSONS  
### CHANGING FACILITIES . .  
### CHISEL TRUCKS .......  
CLAM SHELLS .........  
### COFFEE BREAKS .......  
### COMPRESSORS ........  
CONVEYORS .........  
### CRANE CAPACITY ......  
### CRANE CERTIFICATION . .  
### DAILY RATE on  
### TRUCK CRANES  
AGSC/BTEA 024505 naa i  
CIM eee eee  
   
Article  
### XI  
### XI  
### XJ  
### XI  
### XI  
Xi  
X]  
### XI  
v  
Vii  
Vi  
Vil  
Vil  
### XI  
Vil  
lV  
Vil  
Vii  
Vil  
Vi  
Vil  
Section  
iz  
14  
15-16  
16  
i1  
10  
13  
25  
il  
12  
ll  
11  
1?  
5  
5  
20  
5  
15  
iG  
28  
19  
3  
4  
6  
29  
9  
17  
Page  
35  
59  
39  
60  
60  
59  
59  
59  
49  
14  
iq -  
14  
{4  
60  
12  
33  
15  
26  
6)  
13  
49  
15  
12  
30  
25  
37  
### DELINQUENT FRINGE  
PAYMENTS .........  
### DISCRIMINATION ......  
### DRILL SHAFT  
### OPERATIONS........  
### DRILL ATTACHMENTS ,..  
### DUES DEDUCTION .....  
### EMPLOYEE  
### TRANSPORTATION .  
EQUIPMENT ..........  
Assembly cca ays  
Breakdown  
Ce ee  
Erection .....,....,.  
Fabrication ..........  
.........  
Moving .....,......  
Moving (Providing  
Transportation) — CIM  
Moving (Providing  
Transportation) — FMC  
sas ue new we  
Welding  
### ERECTION OF  
EQUIPMENT ........  
### ESCORT VEHICLES .....  
### EXTRA  
### FANS, SUMMER &  
WINTER .......-...-  
85  
Atticle  
### XIV  
### IV  
### VI  
Vil  
### IV  
### IV  
### VII  
Vit  
Vit  
Vil  
### IV  
### VII  
### VII  
Vit  
Vi  
### VI  
Section  
  
—  
—  
22  
20  
1b  
17  
Page  
37  
3  
33  
33  
61  
38  
13  
13  
2  
37  
45  
13  
13  
13  
i3  
25  
38  
13  
13  
48  
13  
50  
47  
FIREMAN ............ B  
chee wes eee  
### FLOATING EQUIPMENT... B  
### FOREMAN MECHANIC A  
Working With Tools .. , A  
### FORTY (40) HOUR  
GUARANTEE ........ One  
### FOUNDATION FOR FAIR  
### CONTRACTING ...... Two  
### FOUNDATION FOR FAIR  
### CONTRACTING and CIM  
### INDUSTRY  
### ADVANCEMENT ..... Two  
### GREASE TRUCKS ...... One  
One  
### HAZMAT CLEANUPS .... One  
### HEADING MECHANICS .. A  
### HEATERS  
Grouped ..,....-.... Cc  
On ........ One  
eee B  
i  
Power One  
HIGH WINDS «oa we One  
### HOISTING MACHINES ... One  
Apprentice Engineers .... One  
Apprencice Ratio ...... One  
Engineer Only ....,.... One  
HOLIDAYS: oe ces One  
### HOURS  
AGC/BTEA ........., G  
Rented Equipment  
CIM cai was wx: A  
FMC ee eee B  
86  
Article  
### IV  
Vv  
### IV  
### IV  
### IV  
Vill  
X)  
ili  
### VI  
iH  
lj  
Section  
9&10  
23  
12  
6  
6  
is  
Sa  
15  
22  
— oo ON LY  
\-7  
4  
Page  
35  
49  
35  
24  
24  
16  
60  
63  
13  
14  
27  
47  
12  
37  
48  
1!  
19  
10  
5&6  
42  
52  
21-22  
30-31  
Part  
### INCLEMENT WEATHER ., One  
### INDIVIDUAL  
EXCAVATORS ....... One  
### INDUSTRIAL FORK LIFTS One  
### INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT  
Two  
### JURISDICTIONAL  
### DISPUTE PLAN ....., Two  
LEADS ............., B  
### LIABILITY INSURANCE .. Two  
LIGHTERS ........... B  
LOCKOUTS ..........., One  
### LOW WATER WORK ..., B  
### MAINTENANCE  
ENGINEERS ......... B  
Lighted Traffic Signs A  
Wellpoint Systems ...., C  
### MASTER MECHANICS  
Not Required -CIM .... A  
Not Required ~ FMC B  
Operating C  
Shift Work A  
With Six or More  
Engineers.......... A  
With Six or More  
### B  
Wich Six or More  
Cc  
### MATERIAL MOVERS .... One  
### MEMBERSHIP  
### REQUIREMENTS ..... One  
### MEMORANDUM OF  
AGREEMENT ........ Two  
Article  
### X  
Vv  
### VII  
### XVI  
### XVH  
### IV  
### XI  
### IV  
### IV  
### IV  
### IV  
Section  
1-3  
3  
15  
llb  
19  
1]  
16  
Wo  
Page  
19  
63  
65  
31-33  
60  
35  
31  
34  
25  
45  
23  
38  
45  
24  
24  
37  
45  
15  
71  
   
Part  
### NEW EQUIPMENT ....-. One  
### OFF SHIFT One  
eee One  
### A  
### ORDINARY REPAIRS .... C  
### OVERTIME  
### AGC/IBTEA Cc  
er A  
### FMC B  
. One  
### PAY DAY Cc  
### PICKET LINES A  
PILE DRIVERS .......-- B  
### PLANT AIR or STEAM ... B  
Dee eee Cc  
### POLITICAL ACTION  
COMMITTEE .....-.--> Two  
### PRIME SOURCE of  
### SKILLED LABOR...... One  
PUMPS 2005 One  
Single Diaphragm (2 hours  
aday) B  
Dee ee Cc  
Single Diaphragm  
(Grouped) B  
eens ed oe Cc  
Submersible Electric One  
### B  
cepa mus Cc  
### RENTED EQUIPMENT ... C  
### ROBOTIC CONTROLLED  
### EQUIPMENT One  
### SAFETY and EDUCATION = One  
### ‘SATURDAYS & SUNDAYS = One  
88  
Article  
### VII  
Vil  
VIil  
### XV  
Il  
Vil  
Vil  
Section  
13  
21  
### Z  
8  
2  
12  
13  
14  
15  
18  
13  
1-8  
Page  
14  
15  
17  
25  
44  
43  
22  
31  
4  
44  
25  
31-33  
34  
45  
62  
50-53  
14  
19 -  
### AVINGS CLAUSE  
### AGC/BTEA  
CIM .. eee eee es  
FMC eee ees  
### CHEDULE OF WAGES...  
### COPE OF AGREEMENT  
AGC/BTEA .......--->  
CIM ee eee  
FMC .. ee ee es  
### SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT  
CIM ee ees  
### SCOWS ee  
### SHAFTS & TUNNELS .  
### SHIFTS  
### AGC/BTEA  
CIM — Two Shifts ......  
— Three Shifts .....  
— Shafts & Tunnel  
Work  
FMC 08  
### SLURRY BUCKETS ......  
### SOCIAL ACTION  
COMMITTEE .......-  
### SOLE and EXCLUSIVE  
### AGENCY  
### SONIC HAMMERS ......  
Crane Without Leads . .  
Part  
89  
Article  
### VII  
### XV  
### II  
Vo  
### IV  
Section  
### VI  
1-2  
12b  
1-7  
4x5  
4-5  
10  
1-2  
Page  
54  
27  
39  
76-77  
33  
27  
38-39  
20-21  
29  
36  
26-27  
42  
22  
24  
26  
30  
13  
62-63  
12  
31  
### STARTING TIMES  
Assistant Engineer/  
Apprentice — AGC/  
### BTEA  
Assistance Engineer/  
Apprentice —- CIM ...  
Assistant Engineer/  
Apprentice - FMC... ,  
### STEWARDS  
### STRAIGHT OR BROKEN  
### TIME, DAILY RATE....  
s+ @ © ee we we  
Foe ew ee  
= ht ee bh we ee  
fe ee kk ee  
+ 8 8 he wk  
Rented Equipment  
### SWINGER ENGINES  
### TERMINATION  
### TOOLS  
Furnishing  
Safekeeping .........,  
### TRAVEL & SUBSISTENCE  
### TRAVELING TIME  
### VIBRATORY HAMMERS .. .  
Crane Without Leads . . . .  
### WELDING MACHINES .. .  
### WELLPOINT SYSTEMS  
Assembling & Connecting  
Installation & Dismantling  
Maintenance Engineers .  
5 be ee ek  
"he ee  
Part Article Section  
### Cc V 21  
A Ul 2  
B IV 1]  
One IX 1-3  
B IV 16  
Cc V 2  
One I 5  
B [V 21  
Cc V 24  
Cc VI i  
B IV ]2a  
Two  
One VII le  
B I} 6  
A IV 3  
A IV 10  
Cc VI l  
Cc 4 !  
One Vi 4  
### B IV I  
One VI! 17  
B IV 7  
One VI! 8  
C V 12  
90  
Page  
48°  
99"  
35°  
18!  
37.  
43 |  
38  
49°  
50  
36°  
72:  
17 .  
31  
23  
25:  
50  
43  
4  
31  
34  
13  
45  
1S  
   
### WIND BREAKERS ......  
### WITNESS  
### WORK STOPPAGE......  
### WORK REQUIRED ON  
MACHINE ..........  
WORK WEEK .........  
Completion of Work ....  
Guarantee 40 Hours .  
Layoff  
Payroll Period <i xu sas «  
se ee see  
Rehire  
Straight Time ........  
Termination Clause .....  
Test Pile Work ........  
Winter Shut Down .....  
### WORKERS  
### COMPENSATION .....  
Part  
One  
ol  
Article  
### VII  
### IV  
### V  
Vili  
### VI  
### VII  
### VIE  
Vill  
Vil  
### VIII  
### VHI  
### VII  
### VIII  
### VI  
### XXII  
Section  
5B  
Page  
13  
74-75  
25  
45  
16  
16  
16  
17  
16  
17  
17  
16  
18  
17  
16  
71  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF OPERATING ENGINEERS  
Local 4 and its Branches  
Tel: (508) 533-1433  
16 Trotter Drive, Medway, MA 02053  
Cover itlustration Courtesy of Condor Press  
and Central Artery Tunnel Project  
  
 