pp  
- 6/30/2006 Agreement  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Section Page  
Access to Project .... AP  
Additional Work or Classifications . 14A  
Agreement Binding Upon Parties 16B  
Apprenticeship Program (Supplement #5)  
Available Employment 3B(7)  
Bargaining Representatives 2  
Change of Name or Style 30  
C]assification 3B(3)  
Conflicting Contracts 12  
Contract Administration 9A  
Contracting Piece Work 17  
Coverage & Description of WOrK 1B  
Definitions 1A  
Delinquency 28B  
Discharge ns 3C  
Dispatch Hours 3B(9)  
Effective & Termination Date 32  
Elimination from Registration List 3B(12)  
Elimination of Restrictions on Production 13A  
Employer’s Membership 16A  
Employment 3B  
Entry Level Laborer (Supplement #1)  
Foremen, Status Of  
Freedom to Employ Keymann 3B(13)  
Gardening, Horticultural & Landscape Work (Wages) (Supplement #4)  
General ProviSiOMs 1  
General Savings Clause 29  
Grievance Procedure 9  
Gumite IMdustry 24  
Gunite Industry (Wages) Supplement #2)  
Health & Welfare Plan, Pension Plan, Vacation-Holiday, Dues Supplement,  
Training & Retraining Plan 28A  
Hiring Hall Arbitrator 3B(17)  
Hiring Hall Grievances 3B(17)  
Hiring Hall Jurisdiction 3B(4)  
Hiring Hall Locations (Schedule A)  
Hiring 3B(i)  
Higher Wages 5  
23  
Hours & Working Conditions 20A  
Industry Stabilization FUNG 20A  
Job Orders...  
J urisdictional Disputes ... 14(B)  
Liability of Parties. 26  
3  
16  
17  
37  
6  
3  
26  
5  
14  
12  
17  
1  
1  
24  
8  
7  
26  
q  
14  
17  
4  
34  
21  
8  
36  
t  
25  
10  
22  
34  
23  
8  
8  
5  
42  
4  
9  
22  
18  
18  
5  
1?  
22  
K &S5Y2  
4/, 008 wrthig  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
   
### AGC Si  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
   
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
:  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)  
Section Page  
Make-Up Day 20A.2(D)  
No Cessation of Work 8  
Notices to Applicants for Employment 3B(15)  
Order of Preference 3B(6)  
Pro-dob Conference 1D  
Protective Clothing ...  
Publie Work Projects Wage Freeze. ES 18C  
RecordS 7  
Registering at Hiring Hall 3B(2)  
Registration List sn SHES 3B(11)  
Requesting Workmen 3B(8)  
Sabet y 13C  
Security Bonds - Trust Funds 28C  
Selection of Applicant 3B(16)  
Selectivity of Hiring 3B(14)  
Show-Up Time 4  
Special Single Shift 20A.2(B)  
Steward 22  
Subcontractors .. STE en EEE Dsl  
Subsistence (Supplement #6) es  
Supplementai Dues ... DOL  
Termination Procedure .. upon OL)  
Tide Work ... Fa 920A.  
Transfer of Employes OEE  
Union Security 3A  
Wage Rates (Supplement #1)  
Wages... LO  
Wages Appliabet to Classifications... CAAT 19  
Work Day .... QOAGL  
Wark WRI asses 20A.2  
Wrecking Work (Wages) (Supplement #3) ..  
Written Referrals 3B(10)  
9  
19  
10  
18  
   
### LABORERS’ MASTER AGREEMENT  
2002-2006  
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 22™ day of October 2001, and effective the 24th day of June 2002, by  
and between the ASSOCLATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC. herein after referred to as COL-  
### LECTIVE BARGAINING REPRESENTATIVE OF EMPLOYER, and the NORTHERN CALIFORNIA DISTRICT COUN-  
### CIL OF LABORERS OF THE LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO, hereinafter  
referred to as UNION, modifying, amending and changing the Agreement made and entered into the 17th day of May,  
1951, as modified by the Agreements dated June 4, 1952; July 14, 1953; April 18, 1954; April 12, 1955; April 30, 1956;  
April 19, 1957; June 30, 1959; July 28, 1961; June 27, 1962; July 1, 1965; June 16, 1968; June 16, 1971; July 2, 1974:  
May 10, 1977; April 30, 1980, January 18, 1983, March 5, 1986, November 21, 1988, May 17, 1992 and June 14, 1996,  
### by and between the ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC. and the NORTHERN CALIFOR-  
### NIA DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS of the LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-  
### CIO.  
### WITNESSETH:  
Section 1 - General Provisions  
A. Definitions  
(1) | The term “Employer” shall refer to the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc.  
(2) “Union” shail refer to the Northern California District Council of Laborers.  
(3) This Agreement shall apply to any employee who performs work falling within the presently recognized  
jurisdiction of those Local Unions of the Laborers’ International Union of North America affiliated with  
the Northern California District Council of Laborers; except that this Agreement shall not apply to  
superintendents, assistant superintendents, general foremen, civil engineers and their helpers, time-  
keepers, messenger persons, confidential employees and office help.  
(4) This Agreement shall apply to Northern California, which term means that portion of the State of  
California above the Northerly boundary of Kern County, the Northerly boundary of San Luis Obispo  
County, and the Westerly boundaries of Inyo and Mono Counties, which includes the following counties;  
Alameda, Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Colusa, Contra Costa, Del Norte, E] Dorado, Fresno, Glenn,  
Humboldt, Kings, Lake, Lassen, Madera, Marin, Mariposa, Mendocino, Merced, Modoc, Monterey, Napa,  
Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, San Benito, San Francisco, San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa  
Clara, Santa Cruz, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Solano, Sonoma, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity,  
Tulare, Tuolumne, Yolo and Yuba.  
B. Coverage and Description of Laborers’ Work Covered by this Agreement.  
(1) This Agreement shall cover all work coming within the recognized jurisdiction of the Laborers’ Interna-  
tional Union of North America.  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 1  
     
### ACS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 2  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
(2) Subject to the preceding paragraph and subject also to the provisions of Section 14 of this Agreement, it  
is agreed that Laborers’ work shall include but not be limited to: All Laborers’ work necessary to tend  
the carpenters and other building trades craftsmen, stripping of concrete forms, handling and raising  
of slip forms, sewer cleaners, gardening, horticulture, landscaping, trackmen (construction, mainte-  
hance, repair}, all cleanup of debris, grounds and buildings, steam cleaning and all General Laborers’  
work. In accordance with Green Book Decision dated August 2, 1920 - December 11, 1924, the loading  
and unloading, carrying and handling of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete construe-  
tion shall be done by Laborers under the supervision of such person as the Employer may designate. The  
hoisting of rods shall be done by Laborers, except when a derrick or outrigger operated by other than  
hand power is used.  
All Laborers’ work in connection with excavation for building and all other construction, including digging of  
trenches, piers, foundations and holes; digging, lagging, sheeting, cribbing and bracing of foundations, holes,  
caissons and cofferdams, manning, setting and moving all manually movable pumps. (This does not restrict the  
Laborers from performing other work.)  
All Laborers’ work in connection with concrete work, including chipping and grinding, sandblasting, mixing,  
handling, shoveling, conveying, pouring, concrete pumps and similar type machines, grout pumps, nozzlemen —  
(including gunmen and potmen), vibrating, guniting and otherwise applying concrete, whether done by hand or  
any other process, and wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling concrete forms and false work, including  
tending of plasterers and brick and block layers.  
All Laborers’ work in the excavation, grading, preparation concreting, asphalt and mastic paving, paving,  
_ Tamming, curbing, flagging and laying of other stone materials, and surfacing of streets, ways, courts,  
underpasses, overpasses and bridges.  
All work in connection with the operation of spreader boxes, such as True-Lay, Rola Pavers and Laytons or  
similar type models, including but not limited to all shoveling and shifting material and cleaning of boxes, shall  
be the work of the Laborers. Alt Laborers’ work in connection with the cutting of streets and ways for all  
purposes, including aligning by any method, digging of trenches, manholes, etc., handling and conveying of all  
materials for same; concreting of same; and the backfilling, grading and resurfacing of same. All Laborers’  
work in connection with the construction of caissons, cofferdams, subways (except as covered by Master  
Tunnel Agreement), aqueducts, water lines, culverts, flood controls, airports, drains and sewers, and any type  
of conduit, no joint pipe, including the cribbing, lagging, bracing, sheeting, checking grade for pipelaying,  
trench jacking and handling of lagging hammers on a!l open trenches and ditches. All Laborers’ work in  
connection with shoring, underpinning including cutting, fitting, placing and raising of all structures.  
All Laborers’ work in connection with drilling, all work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and  
explosives of whatever type regardless of the method used for such loading and placing.  
All signaling and rigging in connection with Laborers’ work.  
All Laborers’ work in connection with the wrecking of buildings and other structures.  
All Laborers’ work in connection with the slinging, handling and placing of all rip-rap, rock and stone on  
highways, jetties, retaining walls or wherever used.  
All wrecking work on construction and/or razing sites: all Laborers’ work on pre-casting or prefabrication at  
the construction project site or at a precast or prefabrication yard specifically established and operated for that  
one particular construction job.  
   
   
(3)  
(4)  
(8)  
All work in connection with the operation of such equipment that is necessary and incidental to carry out the  
work of the Laborer.  
All classifications listed in Supplement No. 1 of this Agreement which are not listed under this Section shall be  
included in the coverage and description of Laborers’ work just as though incorporated in full in this Section.  
Should an Individual Employer signatory to this Agreement subcontract the masonry or plastering portion of a  
project, said contract shall specify that the work to be performed shall be done under the terms and conditions  
of the current Masonry and/or Plaster Tender Agreement that has been negotiated by the Northern California  
District Council of Laborers or its affiliates, which is in effect in the territory in which the work is performed.  
However, Masonry work which is incidenta! to the work of the Individual Employer may be performed under the  
terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
Any Employer not signatory to both the Tunnel and Laborers’ Master Agreement shall agree that whenever  
work is performed which is covered by the terms of the Laborers’ Master Tunnel Agreement for the 46  
Northern California Counties, the provisions of that Agreement shall be fully applicable to and binding upon the  
Individual Employer.  
Section 2 - Bargaining Representatives  
A.  
Union's Recognition of Collective Bargaining Representative of Employer.  
The Union hereby recognizes and acknowledges that the Collective Bargaining Representative of Employer  
includes in its membership a majority of the Individual Employers in the highway, general building and heavy  
construction industry, and said Individual Employers are performing the greater percentage of work therein.  
By reason of such facts the Union hereby recognizes that the Collective Bargaining Representative of the  
Employer, as herein-above referred to, is the collective bargaining representative for all Individual Employers  
who authorize the Employer to represent them with respect to Collective Bargaining with the Northern  
California District Council of Laborers. A list of said Individual Employers shall be furnished to the Union at the  
commencement of negotiations and the Employer shail furnish the Union with a complete monthly report of any  
additions and deletions to the list of Individual Employers represented by the Employer.  
In the event the Union (District Council) enters into any other agreement with other employers or employer  
associations concerning the type of work covered hereby in the area which shall have terms more favorable to  
such employers or employer associations and the members thereof than this Agreement, then such more  
favorable provisions shall become a part of and apply to this Agreement onty in the geographical area where  
such other agreement is in effect.  
Employers’ Recognition of Union as Collective Bargaining Representative of Employees.  
The Employer and the Individual Employers covered hereby recognize and acknowledge the Northern California  
District Council of Laborers of the Laborers’ International Union of North America, AFL-CIO as the collective  
bargaining representative for the employees in the area aforementioned covering the jurisdiction of the Union.  
Access to Project.  
A Union Representative shall have access to the project during working hours for the purpose of checking the  
manner of compliance with which the terms of this Agreement are being complied.  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 3  
   
### CS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 4  
   
### AGC ES’  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Section 3 - Employment and Discharge  
A Union Security  
(1)  
(2)  
Every person performing work covered by this Agreement who is a member of the Union and in the  
employment of an Individual Employer ou work covered by this Agreement on the effective date of this  
subsection 3A shall, as a condition of employment or continued employment, remain a member in good  
standing of the Union in the appropriate Local Union of the Union. Every person covered by this  
Agreement and employed to perform work covered by this Agreement shall be required, as a condition of  
employment, to apply for and become a member of and to maintain membership in good standing in the  
Union in the appropriate Local Union of the Union which has territorial jurisdiction of the area in which  
such person is performing work on or after the expiration of eight (8) days of employment on such work  
following the beginning of such employment on the effective date of this revised subsection 3A, whichever  
is later. Membership in any such Local Union shall be available to any such person on the same terms and  
conditions generally applicable to other members.  
If Federal law is hereaiter amended to permit a lesser requirement for Union membership or Union  
membership as a condition of employment than provided in this subsection, the Collective Bargaining  
Representative of the Employer and the Union will promptly enter into negotiations with regard to such  
subject.  
The Individual Employer shall be required to discharge any employee pursuant to this subsection 3A only  
when a written notize from the Union or Locat Union, with an immediate copy of such notice to the Union,  
of such employee's non-compliance with this subsection, stating all pertinent facts showing such non-  
compliance, shail have been served upon such Individual Employer and a reasonable time (not to exceed  
48 hours) has been allowed for compliance therewith.  
B. Employment  
(1)  
(2)  
The Union or Local Union shall maintain open and non- discriminatory hiring halls for the use of  
workmen desiring employment on work covered by this Agreement and such workmen shall be entitled  
to use such hiring halls. It is mutually agreed by the Employer and the Union to fully comply with all of  
the provisions of Title 7 of the Civil Rights Act of 1904, Presidential Executive Order #11246, the  
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the California Fair Employment Practices Section, to the  
end that no person shall, on the grounds of sex, race, color, disability, or national origin, be excluded from  
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination by not having full  
access to the contents of Section 3 of this Agreement. (A list of Local Unions, their telephone numbers  
and daily dispatching hours is attached hereto as “Schedule A’ for convenience only.)  
The Union shall retain full power to change the location of any hiring hal! listed herein, to change the  
daily dispatching hours listed herein or to cause the merger, amalgamation or consolidation of any two  
or more hiring halls listed herein. The Union shall give notice in writing tc the Employer whenever any  
such change, merger, amalgamation or consotidation becomes effective. If the Employer desires a  
location of a hiring hall or daily dispatching hours other than as specified herein, notice of such desire  
shall be given to the Union in writing and the Collective Bargaining Representative shal! promptly enter  
into negotiations with regard to such subject.  
Each person desiring employment shall register through such hiring hall by appearing personally and by  
indicating his/her name, address, telephone number, Social Security Account Number, qualifications  
   
er a a i  
(3)  
(4)  
(5)  
(6)  
and employment desired. Each such person shall be listed numerically in the order in which he/she  
registers,  
In the territorial jurisdiction of the following Locals only 73 Stockton, 139 Santa Rosa, 185 Sacramento,  
270 San Jose, 291 (Napa/Lake Counties only), 294 Fresno, 297 Salinas, 326 Solano and 1130 Modesto,  
a person may register by phone if his residence is more than 10 miles from the nearest hiring hail  
maintained by said Local.  
Distance for interpreting this subsection shal) be determined by using the nearest Class “A” road or  
highway.  
No person shall be entitled to have his name placed on any employment list which is applicable to a  
particular type or classification of work unless he/she has been employed in such type or classification  
of work for six months consecutively or accumulatively within a period of three (3) years immediately  
preceding the date of his/her registration.  
The Individual Employer shall contact the appropriate hiring hall of the local Union having work and  
area jurisdiction for all Laborers as he/she or it may from time to time need, and the Local Union shall  
furnish to the Individual Employer the required number of qualified and competent Laborers of the  
classifications needed by the Individual Employer in accordance with the provisions of this subsection  
3B, if such Laborers are available.  
When requesting Laborers, the Individual Employer shall submit job orders indicating the number of  
persons desired, qualifications of each person desired, the location of the job, the reporting date and time  
and the representative of the Individual Employer to be contacted on the job site.  
The appropriate hiring hall of the Local Union of the Union having work and area jurisdiction will  
furnish in accordance with the request of the Individual Employer such qualified and competent  
Laborers of the classifications needed from among those entered on said lists to the Individual Employer  
by use of a written referral in the following order of preference:  
Persons shall be referred in the order in which they are registered if their registration indicates that they  
are qualified for and desirous of taking such referral, unless they are not available for referral, subject  
to the following conditions: First,  
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Individual Employer may request a  
person by name, out of order, and such person must be dispatched if such person is registered  
on the out-of-work list and if such person was employed previously by such Individual  
or member of a joint venture within three years prior to such request within the territorial  
jurisdiction of the appropriate Local Union of the Union.  
(b) In addition to requests permitted by the provision of subsection 6(a), the Individual Employer  
may request any person registered on the out-of-work list out of order for any reasons; provided,  
however, that at no time shall any job contain more than 50% of persons requested under  
subsection 6(b). It will not be a violation of this Agreement for an owner (1 person) to perform  
Laborers’ work when needed, provided that said owner is performing work with at least one (1)  
additional Laborer on the job site.  
(c) Any Local Union, may at its option, permit a percentage of individual requests greater than 50%  
on any job. Such permission shall not be deemed a violation of this Agreement.  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 5  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 6  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
(7)  
(d)  
(e)  
Notwithstanding the above, the mobility of alt employees who have been employees of the  
Individual Employer for a period of three hundred sixty (360) hours out of the immediate  
preceding six (6) months, shal! not be restricted for any reason subject to Section 3A, Union  
Security. In order fer the Employer to exercise the mobility provisions set forth in this  
paragraph, the Individual Employer shall:  
(1) Provide the appropriate Local Union with a current list of names and Social Security  
Numbers of those employees who are eligible for mobility, prior to any employee being  
moved; and  
(2) The Individual Esnployer shall notify the appropriate Local Union of a jod or project of  
more than fiveday’s duration.  
(3) In cases where an individual employer is found to have dispatched certain employees  
not eligible for mobility to a job site as defined herein, then the local Union having  
jurisdiction in the project area shall notify the employer of such violation or error. The  
employer, upon notification by the Union, shall within one (1) working day, correct said  
violation or error to the satisfaction of the Union. Additional laborers shall be obtained  
in accordance with the hiring hall procedures from the Local Union in the area where  
work is performed. All laborers shalt have in their possession proof of proper dispatch  
and Union status which shall be produced upon request of Local Union representative  
in the area where the job is located. Any violation not resolved to the mutual satisfaction  
of the parties shal! be subject to Section 9 of this Agreement.  
(4) No Employee of the employer shall suffer loss of mobility for a break in service of two (2)  
months or less with the employer if the break in service is due to illness, extended  
vacation or winter shutdown,  
No person shall be dispatched pursuant to the provisions of subsection 6(a), 6(b) or 6(c) of this  
Section unless the Individual request is in writing, dated, is signed by an appropri-  
ate management representative, specifies whether the person is a rehire and names the job for  
which rehire is requested.  
Second, persons who, within five (5) years immediately preceding the job order, performed work  
covered under this Agreement in the geographical area covered by this Agreement in the order  
in which they registered.  
Third, persons who are in the order in which they registered by qualification.  
Available for employment shall mean: Ail persons eligible for shall be present at the hiring hall  
or present at their residence phene if they live at a location specified in subsection (2) of this subsection  
3B during dispatching hours, unless excused for the following reasons:  
(a)  
(b)  
()  
When a death or imminent death occurs in the immediate family, from the date of death and not  
exceeding one week after the date of burial, however, they shall produce bona fide proof of such  
death or imminent death from hospital or family doctor.  
Persons on jury duty, providing they produce bona fide proof that they are serving ona jury.  
Persons temporarily serving in the U.S. Military Reserve, providing they show bona fide proof of  
such service.  
   
(8)  
(9)  
(10)  
(11)  
(12)  
   
(d) Attendance at Workers’ Compensation Hearing or any administrative or court appearance.  
When ordering workers, the Individual Employer will give notice to the appropriate hiring hall of the  
Local Union, if possible, not later than 2:30 p.m. of the day prior (Monday through Friday) or, in any  
event, not less than seventeen and one-half (17-1/2) hours, if possible, before the required reporting time.  
In the event that forty-eight (48) consecutive hours after such notice (Saturday, Sundays and recognized  
holidays excluded), the Local Union shall not furnish such workers, the Individual Employer may procure  
workers from any other source or sources. If workers are so employed, the Individual Employer shall  
promptly report to the appropriate hiring hall of the Local Union, in writing or by phone with written  
confirmation within forty-eight (48) hours, the name, address and Social Security Account Number of  
the employee procured from such other source or sources and the date of employment and the location of  
the job on which he/she is employed. Workers who report on the first day are to be paid from the time  
they report to the Individual Employer's designated location.  
Dispatching hours shall be as specified in subdivision (1) of this subsection 3B or as specified in the notice  
or notices submitted pursuant to subdivision (1) of this subsection 3B. In emergency cases, individuals  
may be dispatched other than at such dispatching hours.  
Each person, upon being referred, shall receive a written referral to be transmitted to the Employer  
representative at the job site indicating the name, address, Social Security Account Number, type of job,  
date of proposed employment and date of referral.  
To insure the maintenance of a current registration list, al} persons who do not re-register or answer roll  
call, as the case may be, on each regularly scheduled roll call day (which shall not be more often than once  
a week), shall be removed from the registration list untess excused in accordance with subsection 3B(7).  
Any person may re-register by phone and must be personally present at the phone during dispatch hours.  
If a referral is made by phone, a written dispatch slip must be sent to the Individual Employer and  
worker. Any person who is permitted to register by telephone under this subsection 3B must appear  
personally at the appropriate hiring hall on roll call day. If such persons re-register or answer roll cali  
pursuant to the provisions of this Section, they shall maintain their previous position on such list, subject  
to the provisions of subsection 12 of subsection 3B following, such person shall not be entitled to the  
position he/she held prior tohis elimination in the event he/she re-registers or answers roll call, as the  
case may be. Persons will be excused from answering roll call only for the reason enumerated in  
subsection 3B(?).  
Persons shall be eliminated from the registration list for the following reasons:  
(a) Dispatched to a job - except that any person who is rejected by the Individual Employer or who  
fails to complete two (2) full days of work shall retain his/her position on said list; provided, no  
person who is rejected by the Individual Employer shall be re-referred to such Individual  
Employer with respect to the same request pursuant to which he/she was initially referred.  
(b) Failing to accept suitable employment one time during the current week at the time of dispatch.  
Employment which cannot be reached by an individual because of lack of transportation shall  
not be deemed suitable as to him/her.  
(c) Unavailable for employment.  
(d) Any person dispatched to a job who fails to report for work.  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 7  
   
CS oS ta  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 8  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
(13) Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection 3B, upon the same notice as required in 3B(6)(E) being  
given to the appropriate Local Union of the Union, an Individual Employer shall have complete freedom  
to employ the first key Laborer.  
(14) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Individual Employer shall have complete freedom of  
selectivity in hiring and the Individual Employer retains the right to reject any job applicant referred by  
the Union for just cause including but not limited to persons unable to produce legal residence documen-  
tation as required under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. In the event an Individual  
Employer receives two (2) referrals from the Local Union not meeting the skill requirements of the hiring  
request, the Individual Employer shall be free to secure such skilled person from any available source  
subject to Section 3a of this Agreement.  
(15) The Local Unions and the Union shall post in places where notices to applicants for employment with the  
Individual Employers are customarily posted, all provisions relating to the functioning of the hiring  
arrangements, including the provisions set forth in this Section, and each Individual Employer shall  
similarly post in places where notices to employees and applicants for employment are customarily  
posted, a notice of the hiring arrangements set forth in this Section.  
(16) Selection of applicants for referral to jobs pursuant to this Agreement shall be on a non-discriminatory  
basis and shall not be based cn, or in any way affected by, Union membership, bylaws, rules, regulations,  
constitutional previsions, or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership, policies or require-  
ments, provided that the provisions hereof shall not modify or qualify the requirements of subsection A  
of this Section 3.  
(17) Any person aggrieved hy the operation of the hiring hall shall submit his/her grievance to the permanent  
hiring hall neutral arbitrator provided that such submission is made in writing stating the reasons for  
the grievance within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of the grievance.  
The Arbitrator shall have full power to adjust the grievance, and his decision thereon shall be final and  
binding upon the person submitting the grievance and all parties hereto. Forms for the submission of any  
such grievance shall be available at all times in the office of the Union and each Local Union.  
The permanent hiring hall neutral arbitrator shall be Gerald R. McKay and notices required by this  
Section shall be mailed or delivered to P.O. Box 406, Burlingame, CA 94011-0406. The date of this  
postmark and/or date of delivery of the grievance, whichever is later, shall toll the running of the ten (10)  
day pertod. The costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by the Employer and the Local Union  
regardless of who the Local Union or Individual Empioyer is.  
C. Discharge  
No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for activity in or representation of the Union or any Local  
Union. The Local Union shall be the sole judge of the qualifications of its members.  
The Individual Employer shall be the sole judge of the qualifications of all of their employees, and may on such grounds,  
discharge any of them. No employee shall be discharged without just cause. In the event of discharge without just  
cause, the employee shall, if he/she so desires, be reinstated with payment for time lost. In the event of a dispute, the  
existence of “just cause” shall be determined under the grievance procedure provided for in Section 9 hereof. In the  
event of reinstatement, the amount of back pay awarded under Section 9 hereof may not exceed 90 days unless the  
grievant was employed by the Individual Employer who discharged him/her for more than 1500 hours in the two (2)  
years preceding the date of discharge.  
   
   
D. The Individual Employer may notify the Local Union hiring hall of all employees who have quit, or been  
terminated or recalled during the week. Such notification may be on a written form which will include the  
following information:  
### NAME OF EMPLOYER COMPANY  
### NAME OF EMPLOYEE  
### DATE OF TERMINATION  
### DATE OF RECALL  
### REASON FOR TERMINATION  
E. No employee may be transferred from an Individual Employer’s payroll to another Individual Employer's payroll  
except in accordance with subsection 3B, except any transfer to and/or from a joint venture of which the  
Individual Employer is a partner.  
Section 4 - Show-Up Time  
When any employee reports for work and there is no work provided by the Individual Employer, he/she shall be paid two  
(2) hours show- up time at the applicable rate plus subsistence where applicable, provided, however, no show-up time  
will be payable to any person who reports for work without the necessary and legally required documentation to  
establish work right status under applicable Immigration and Naturalization Laws. If work is suspended on account  
of weather conditions, the employee shall be entitled to show-up time only if he/she remains on the job site for two (2)  
hours pending abatement of such weather unless sent home earlier by the Individual Employer. If work is to be  
suspended for any reason, the employee shall be notified at least two (2) hours before being required to report for work.  
The employee shall keep the Individual Employer informed at all times of his/ her correct address, and if he/she has a  
telephone, his/her telephone number. If an employee does not keep the Individual Employer so informed, the Individual  
Employer shall be relieved of the duty of giving such notice and further he/she shail not have to pay such employee show-  
uptime. Radio and/or TV notice is acceptable on remote projects as means of notification providing the Union is notified  
in writing at the commencement of the job.  
Section 5 - Higher Wages  
No employee receiving a higher rate of pay shall suffer a reduction of pay by reason of the execution of this Agreement.  
Section 6 - Lunch Time  
No employee shall be required to work more than five (5) hours without time off for a meal period, which shall be not less  
than one-half ('4) hour.  
If Laborers are required to work continuously for more than five (5) hours without an opportunity for lunch, they shail  
receive overtime pay for work after the fifth (5th) hour until opportunity to take time for lunch is afforded. When  
opportunity for lunch is afforded, the employee shall be allowed thirty (30) minutes at his/her straight time rate to eat  
his/her lunch. Lunch periods at the option of the Individual Employer may be staggered any time after three and one-  
half (3-1/2) hours from the beginning of the shift. On a 4x 10 work week, staggered lunches begin no sooner than four  
and one-half (4-1/2) hours into the shift and no later than the sixth (6th) hour.  
Any employee required to work more than two (2) hours overtime at the end of a shift shall be permitted a one-half (4)  
hour meal period for which he/she shall receive regular overtime pay. No work shall be performed by him/her during  
such meal period. (Meal periods may be staggered from the 10th to the 11th hour.)  
   
2002 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 9  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2066  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 10  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
Section 7 - Records  
A. Each Individual Employer shall provide a proper means for registering the reporting, quitting time, and as  
supplied by the employee, the address and telephone number of all employees covered by this Agreement. In the  
event of a dispute, such records shall be accessible to the business representative of the Union or Loca! Union  
during working hours.  
B. Each Individual Employer, upon request of any Trust Fund specified in this Agreement, shall permit a Trust  
Fund Auditor to review any and all records relevant to the enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement  
pertaining to the Trust Funds. Such review shall be permitted not less than ten (10) working days after  
demand.  
Section 8 - No Cessation of Work  
it is mutually agreed and understood that during the period when this Agreement is in force and effect, the Union or any  
Local Union will not authorize any strike, slow-down, or stoppage of work in any dispute, complaint, or grievance  
arising under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, except such disputes, complaints, or grievances as arise out  
of the failure or refusai of any Individual Employer to comply with the provisions of the hiring clause, subsection 3A or  
B hereof, or as permitted under Section 28B and C hereof or whenever an Individual Employer pays Laborers improperly  
with checks which do not clear for collection. As to any Individual Employer who shail fail or refuse to comply with the  
provisions of the sections specified herein, so long as such failure or refusal continues it shall not be a violation of this —  
Agreement if the Union or any Local Union withdraws its members who are subject hereto from the performance of any  
work for such Individual Employer, and such withdrawal for such period shall not bea strike or work stoppage within  
the terms of this Agreement. In the event that any employees of any Individual Employer should be withdrawn by reason  
of anydispute, complaint, or grievance arising out of the violation of any similar hiring clause in any agreement between  
Employer and any other Union, then the Union or any Local Union may respect such withdrawal and for the period  
thereof may refuse to perform any work for such Individual Employer, and such refusal for such period shall not bea  
violation of this Agreement.  
Any employees so withdrawn or refusing to perform any work as herein provided shall not lose their status as  
employees, but no such employee shall be entitled to claim or receive any wages or other compensation for any period  
during which he/she has been so withdrawn or refused to perform any work.  
Section 9 - Grievance Procedure  
Any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement, other than a jurisdictional dispute or a  
dispute arising out of subsection 3A or B, or a dispute arising out of subsection 13C(4), or a dispute of Section 28 (Health  
& Welfare Plan, Pension/Annuity Plan, Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement Plan, Training- Retraining/Apprenticeship  
Plan) which said sections and the subsections thereof are specifically exempted by the provisions of this Section, the  
following procedure will apply:  
1. Inthe event that a dispute arises on a job, it shall be first reported to the Individual Employer and/or the  
Business Agent of the appropriate Local Union who shall then attempt to adjust said grievance or  
dispute at the job site level.  
2. The grieving parties shall specify the date(s) of the alleged violations(s) and the provision(s) of the  
Agreement applicable to the dispute.  
3.  Ifsaid grievance or dispute is not satisfactorily adjusted by the appropriate Loca! Union or otherwise  
authorized Union Representative and the Individual Employer or his/her representative within three (3)  
   
i  
10.  
11.  
   
days after submission to the Individual Employer, the matter may be submitted by either party to a  
permanent Board of Adjustment created for the settlement of such disputes.  
The Board of Adjustment shall he composed of two (2) members named by the Union, two (2) members  
named by the Association and an Impartial Arbitrator. At any point in the proceedings, should the panel  
be unable to reach a majority vote, the Arbitrator shall participate and his decision shall be final and  
binding.  
In addition to any rules or procedures which the panel may adopt, the Board of Adjustment shall be  
governed by the following provisions:  
(a) No attorneys shall be utilized unless either party advises the other of its intent to do so within a  
reasonable time in advance of the hearing.  
(b} No briefs shall be submitted nor a transcript made of the hearing except by mutual agreement  
of the parties or by direction of the Arbitrator.  
(c) In the case ofa deadlock, the Arbitrator shall render his decision upon the conclusion of the case  
at the Board of Adjustment hearing unless the time is extended by mutual agreement of the  
parties or at the request of the Arbitrator, in which case the Arbitrator shall render a decision  
not later than thirty (30) days after submission. The Arbitrator shall not render an expanded  
opinion in any case unless requested by the parties.  
(d) The parties shall select and utilize one (1) permanent impartial arbitrator who is willing to  
abide by the procedures set forth herein. The impartial arbitrator may be changed or replaced  
at the request of either party.  
The Board of Adjustment shall meet not less than once each calendar month with the exception of the  
discharge cases which must be heard at the earliest possible date not to exceed fifteen (15) working  
days. Failure of either party to meet or participate in the procedure shall relieve the charging party of  
further compliance with the grievance procedure.  
Decisions of the Board of Adjustment or an Impartial Arbitrator shall be within the scope and terms of  
this Agreement, and shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto.  
In the event an Individual Employer fails to comply with any such decisions, the Union may withdraw  
employees or strike the Individual Employer and such action shall not bea violation of this Agreement so  
long as such noncompliance continues.  
The expenses of the Joint Adjustment Board and the Impartial Arbitrator, including the cost of a court  
reporter, shall be borne by the Contract Administration Fund.  
No proceedings hereunder based on any dispute, complaint or grievance herein provided for, shall be  
recognized unless the grievance procedure steps outlined above have been followed. The Board of  
Adjustment may, by majority vote, for good cause, accept a late submission.  
The Board of Adjustment shall establish regular meeting dates and administer grievances filed in  
conjunction with this Section as set forth in the rules and procedures which may be amended from time  
to time by the parties.  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 11  
   
   
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 12  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
12.  
13.  
14.  
15.  
16.  
17.  
18.  
19,  
A decision of the Board of Adjustment by majority vote, or the decision of a permanent arbitrator shall be  
enforceable by a petition to confirm an arbitration award filed in the Superior Court of the City and  
County of San Francisco, State of California.  
Allhearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be in the County of Contra Costa and/or County of Alameda,  
unless mutually agreed to move to another location.  
No proceedings hereunder based on any dispute, complaint, or grievance herein provided for shall be  
recognized unless adequate notice was given to the Employer and/or Union or Loca) Union within ten  
days after the alleged violation was committed.  
in the case of discharge, the Board shall meet within fifteen (15) working days. The Board of Adjust-  
ment or Arbitrator shall be free to sustain the discharge or to find discipline other than discharge to be  
appropriate and may order reinstatement with full or partial back pay as he or it deems appropriate  
provided there shal! be ne discrimination on the part of the Individual Employer against any employee for  
activities in behalf of, or representation of the Union not interfering with the proper performance of his/  
her duties.  
If failure of a Board of Adjustment to meet on a discharge case within fifteen (15) working days is due  
to the unavailability of the Union, the wage payment and Trust Fund contribution liability shall be  
limited to the above fifteen (15) working days. Ifthe Employer or Individual Employer is unavailable to  
meet the wage payment and Trust Fund contribution, liability shall be continuing.  
The Board of Adjustment shall settle any dispute or grievance involving a subcontractor as defined in  
Section 11 who has agreed under contract with the Employer, or any Individual Employer, or a subcon-  
tractor of the Employer, or any Individual Employer to perform on the job site any part or portion of the  
construction work covered by the prime contract, including the operation of equipment, performance of  
labor and installation of materials.  
When liabilities are assessed against a subcontractor for hiring violations as a result of a Board of  
Adjustment held under the provisions of Paragraph 17 and said subcontractor fails to satisfy said  
the Union shall promptly give written notice to the Individual Employer and subcontractor  
and the Individual Employer shall pay such obligations from the retention of such subcontractor,  
The procedures specified herein shall be applicable to any Individual Employer whether or not he or she  
is a member of Employer or any other associations.  
In those instances where the Individua! Employer is not a member of the Employer, the Joint Adjustment  
Board shall establish procedures whereby the Employer members of the Joint Adjustment Board may  
consist of one Individua] Employer who is not a member of the Employer.  
Section 9A - Contract Administration  
A trust fund entitled “The Contract Administration Trust Fund” shail be used to provide compensation to the Employer  
for negotiations and administration of the provisions of this Agreement, including Section 9, for the Industry. Effective  
July 1, 2002, each signatory employer shall contribute the sum of six cents (3.06) per hour worked or paid for to the  
Contract Administration Trust Fund. At the discretion of the Trustees of said Trust, contributions to the Contract  
Administration Trust Fund may be increased up to an additional four ($.04) cents per hour during the term of this  
Agreement. Such increase or increases are to be effective on such dates as determined by the Trustees. The contribu-  
tion into a contract administration trust fund shall not exceed ten cents ($.10) per hour for each hour paid for or worked.  
   
The Trust Fund shall be administered solely by Trustees selected by the Employer in accordance with a trust agreement  
to be executed by the Employer. The contribution as described above shall commence with the work month following  
notice by the Laborers Northern California Trust Fund Corporation to the Individual Employers. The Union shall have  
the right, not more than one (1) time per year, to independently audit the Trust  
Section 9B - industry Stabilization Fund  
The Individual Employer shall contribute eleven cents ($.11) per hour for each hour paid for or worked by workers in  
work covered by this Agreement to the Industry Stabilization Fund. Of the $.11 cents per hour, two cents (3.02) per hour  
is earmarked for California Allliance for Jobs and one cent ($.01) per hour is earmarked for the Construction Industry  
Force Account Council (CIFAC).  
The purpose of such funds shall be to enhance the monitoring of public works projects relative to Employer compliance  
with State, Federal or other publie agencies public works wage and hour laws. Such contributions shall continue until  
written notice by the parties signatory hereto. Such trust fund shall be administered jointly by the signatory parties.  
Section 10 - Payment of Wages  
A. Each employee shall be paid wages in full each week before or at quitting time on the Individual  
regular pay day unless specific arrangements to the contrary are made in writing between  
the Individual Employer and appropriate Local Union of the Union. Employees who quit or are laid off  
or discharged shall be paid in accordance with the laws of the State of California.  
B. Each employee shall be given a statement with the Individual Emptoyer’s name and address, itemizing  
the employee's gross amount earned, hours worked, Social Security tax, withholding tax and all other  
deductions, also a statement of hours applicable to Health and Welfare, Pension/Annuity, Vacation-  
Holiday-Dues Supplement and Training-Retraining/Apprenticeship Plans.  
Section 11 - Subcontractors  
The terms and conditions of this Agreement insofar as it affects Employer and the Individual Employer shall apply  
equally to any subcontractor of any tier under the control of, or working under oral or written contract with such  
Individual Employer on any work covered by this Agreement to be performed at the job site or job yard, and said  
subcontractor with respect to such work shall be considered the same as an Individual Employer covered hereby.  
Subject to the provisions of this Section and any other Section of this Agreement applicable to subcontractors, if an  
Individual Employer shall subcontract work herein defined, such subcontract shall state that such subcontractor  
agrees to be bound by and comply with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. A subcontractor is defined as any  
person, firm or corporation who agrees under contract with the Employer, or any Employer, or a subcontrae-  
tor of the Employer, or any Individual Employer to perform on the job site any part or portion of the construction work  
covered by the prime contract, including the operation of equipment performance of labor and installation of materials.  
The Individual Employer has the primary obligation for performance of all conditions of this Agreement. This obligation  
cannot be relieved, evaded or diminished by subcontracting. Should the Individual Employer elect to subcontract, the  
Individual Employer shall continue to have such primary obligation. Said primary obligation shall be deemed conclusive  
evidence of the Unions majority status for the purpose of establishing the obligation of the Individual Employer to  
bargain collectively pursuant to Section 8(A) (5) of the National Labor Relations Act as amended with the Union upon  
expiration of this Agreement, but for no other purpose, statute or law.  
An Individual Employer who provides in the subcontract that the subcontractor will pay the wages and benefits and will  
observe the hours and all other terms and conditions of this Agreement shall not be liable for any delinquency by such  
subcontractor in the payment of any wages or fringe benefits provided herein, including payments required by Section  
2002 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Paga 13  
   
C Nota  
### CALIFORNI  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 14  
28 (Health and Welfare, Pension/Annuity, Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement and Training-Retraining/Apprenticeship  
Funds), except as follows:  
The Individual Employer will give written notice to the Union of any subcontract involving the performance of work  
covered by this Agreement within five (5) days of entering such subcontract, and shall specify the name and address of  
the subcontractor. Written notice at a pre-job conference shall be deemed written notice under this provision for those  
subcontractors listed at the pre-job only. Notification to the Union of any subcontractor not listed in writing at the pre-  
job must still be given in accordance with this paragraph.  
If thereafter such subcontractor shall become delinquent in the payment of any wages or benefits as above specified, the  
Union shall promptly give written notice thereof to the Individual Employer and to the subcontractor specifying the  
nature and amount of such delinquency.  
If such notice is given, the Employer sha!l pay and satisfy only the amount of any such delinquency by such  
subcontractor occurring within seventy-five (75) days prior to the receipt of said notice from the Union, and said  
Individual Employer may withhold the amount claimed to be delinquent out of the sums due and owing by the Individual  
Employer to such contractor.  
In the event the Individual Employer fails to give written notice of a subcontract as required herein such Individual  
Employer shall be liable for all delinquencies of the subcontractor on that job or project without limitation.  
The Individual Employer shall not be liable for any such delinquency if the Local Union where the delinquency occurs  
refers any employee to such subcontractor after giving such notice and during the continuance of such delinquency. The  
provisions of this Section 11 shal! be applied only to the extent permitted by law and, notwithstanding any other  
provision of this Agreement, no aspect of the subcontractors’ clause, including its enforcement, may be enforced by or  
subject to strike action.  
Section 12 - Conflicting Contracts  
Any oral or written agreement between Employer or any Individual Employer and an individual employee, which  
conflicts or is inconsistent with this Agreement, or any supplemental agreements hereto, disestablishes or tends to  
disestablish relationship of Employer and employee, or establishes a relationship other than that of Employer and  
employee, shall forthwith terminate. No oral or written agreement which conflicts or is inconsistent with this Agree-  
ment, or any supplemental agreements thereto, shall hereafter be entered into by and between Employer, or an  
Individual Employer, and any individual employee performing work covered by this Agreement. Any practice of the  
Employer or Individual Employer contrary to this Agreement shall forthwith terminate. Anysuch future practice shall  
not be binding on the Union or effect the interpretation of this Agreement unless specifically authorized by the Union in  
writing.  
Section 13A - Elimination of Restrictions on Preduction  
No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted that limit production or increase the time required to do any work.  
There shall be no limitation or restriction of the use of machinery tools or other labor-saving devices.  
The Union and Employer recognize that Drug/Alcohol abuse by employees shall not be tolerated for safety reasons.  
       
Syke  
   
      
AGC <3 The Union agrees to cooperate with Employer and Individual Employer in establishing drug and alcchol abuse policies  
CALIFORNIA to the extent legally possible.  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
   
Management Rights Regarding Substance Abuse: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, the Em-  
ployer expressly reserves the right, in its discretion, to undertake the following measures:  
-(a)  
(b)  
(©)  
(d)  
In the sole discretion of the employer, requiring covered employees to submit to physical examination by  
competent medical personne! to determine whether there is a probability that the employee is suffering  
from any physical impairment which might cause the employee to bea safety hazard to him/herself or  
others, or which might cause the employee to be unable to perform assigned tasks within the coverage  
of this agreement in a prompt and competent manner. Such tests may include, in the discretion of the  
employer, such tests of the bodily fluids as the employer may reasonably believe will elicit  
evidence of the employee's use of substances which are reasonably likely to alter or impair the employee's  
ability to perform his/her duties in a prompt, competent and safe manner.  
Implementation of rules regarding the discipline and/or discharge of any employees that the employer  
determines, as a result of the tests described in subparagraph (a), are reasonably likely to become  
voluntarily impaired or disabled from the safe performance of their work tasks as a result of the  
ingestion of alcohol or performance-impairing drugs.  
An Individual Employer may initiate unannounced random testing, a selection process where affected  
Employees are selected for testing and each Employee has an equal chance of being selected for testing.  
If an Individual Employer initiates such testing, all Employees shall be subjected to such testing. The  
Employee may establish two random testing pools, one for DOT regulated Employees and one for all  
others. An ladividual Employer who initiates random testing shall specifically state in its notice to the  
Union and its notice to Employees that Employees will be subject to random testing. The Individual  
Employer shall give thirty (30) days notice to the Union and Employees prior to implementing a random  
drug testing program.  
Implementation of a voluntary employee assistance program, to provide counseling, therapy and moni-  
toring of those employees who request employer assistance in controlling and overcoming problems  
related to the use of drugs and alcohol.  
Disputes arising from the implementation of the provisions of this paragraph shall be subject to the  
grievance procedures set forth in Section 9 ofthis Agreement. .  
B. Protective Clothing  
The Individual Employer shall furnish the necessary goggles, hard hats or other protective clothing. Laborers working  
in rain, snow or sleet shall be furnished with waterproof clothing. Laborers working in gunite or handling concrete  
and/or cement shall be furnished rubber boots and gloves. Laborers working in mud or water shall be furnished boots.  
Such equipment shall be furnished by the Individual Employer free of charge and returned by the employee in the same  
condition as received subject to reasonable wear and tear. Such equipment shall be sanitized before reissue.  
C. Safety  
(1)  
The Union shal! cooperate with the Individual Employer and with each employee in carrying out all  
pertinent rules and regulations dealing with health, safety and welfare of employees promulgated by the  
Department of Industrial Relations of the State of California. All employees shall perform their duties  
in each operation in such manner as to promote safe and efficient operations of each particular duty and  
of any job as a whole.  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 15  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 16  
(2) All State and/or Federal and/or Local Safety Laws, Standards, Rules and Regulations shall be appli-  
cable to ali work covered by this Agreement. The Individual Employer ts solely responsible for imple-  
menting and maintaining such Laws, Standards, Rules and Regulations. Neither the Union nor any  
Local Union is responsible for implementing or maintaining such Laws, Standards, Rules or Regula-  
tions.  
(3) Adequate first-aid equipment shall be maintained and provision shall be made for the safety of employees  
covered by this Agreement on each job by each Individual Employer. Each Individual Employer shall  
arrange for adequate and prompt transportation to a hospital or doctor for any employee who is injured  
on the job and may require doctor's care or hospitalization or both. Each Individual Employer must post  
the name and address of its doctor and of the Worker’s Compensation Insurance carrier on the job site.  
(4) Noemployee shall be discharged for refusing to work under conditions injurious to his health or safety  
as determined under any rule or regulation of the United States or State of California or any political  
subdivision. Such determination shall be made bya responsible agent of the State of California or OSHA  
or any of its political subdivisions, or by a safety inspector from the applicable insurance carrier.  
(5) When drilling holes in rock or other dust producing material with air or power controlled drilling  
equipment (excluding jack hammer), dust shall be controlled by water, chemical or other suitable means  
within the maximum acceptable concentration as set forth in the California or OSHA Construction  
Safety Orders.  
(6) Should the Employer or Individual Employer desire a change in variance in the California or OSHA  
Construction or any applicable Safety Orders, they will notify the Union in writing not less than thirty  
(30) days prior to making a request for such change.  
(7) Manhaul trucks regularly used for personnel transport but not designed for this purpose, shall be  
provided with safe seating and side and end protection to prevent falls. Some convenient means of  
mounting and dismounting the truck shall be provided. Adequate protection shall be provided during  
inclement weather. A bell or other means of communication with the driver shall be installed.  
(8) Employees who as a direct result of an on-the-job industrial injury are unable to complete a full day of  
work shall nevertheless be paid for the full day on which such injury occurred; provided, however, that  
said injury requires the attention of a licensed physician.  
(9) The Local Union with area jurisdiction shall be notified within one day (twenty-four hours) of any  
industrial injury which results in death or requires hospitalization.  
Section 14A - Additional Work or Classifications  
This Agreement shall not prevent the Employer from negotiating or making agreements with ‘he Union for any work or  
classification not covered by this Agreement.  
Whenever any work covered by this Agreement is to be eliminated or modified by the introduction of any new machine,  
mechanized process, new or different material, or new or different method or technology with respect to the perfor-  
mance of such work, persons employed under this Agreement and subject thereto, will be given preference for employ-  
ment and will be assigned such work where it is not in conflict with International jurisdictional agreements with  
respect to such new machine, mechanized process, new or different material, or new or different method or technology  
ASSOCIATED and the use of any such new machine, mechanized process, new or different materia), or new or different method or  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
al  
   
   
   
-  
   
technology shall be subject to and covered by this Agreement regardless of the nature, size or characteristics of such  
new machine, mechanized process, new or different material or new different method or technology.  
It is not the intent of the parties to provide work where no job exists.  
Section 14B - Jurisdictional Disputes  
There shail be no cessation or interference in any way with any work of the Employer or any Individual Employer by  
reason of jurisdictional disputes between the Union and any other Union affiliated with the AFL-CIO or the Interna-  
tional Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen, and Helpers of America with respect to jurisdiction over  
any of the work covered by this Agreement. Such disputes will be settled by the Unions, themselves, or submitted to the  
International Presidents of the Union involved in the dispute for determination. Until such determination is made and  
confirmed by the disputing Unions, the work shalt proceed as originally assigned by the Individual Employer. Craft  
jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded by classifications or coverage descriptions appearing in this Agreement.  
Seciion 15 - Pre-Job Conference  
There shall be a pre-job conference prior to the start of a job or project, at the option of either party, where the agreed  
orestimated price to be paid the Individual Employer and any of his or its subcontractors if $1,000,000 or more where  
construction conditions or remoteness of the project warrant it. The Individual Emptoyer shal! notify, in writing, the  
appropriate Loca! Union of the Union of an award of work within ten (10) days thereof so that a pre-job conference can  
be arranged.  
Section 16A - Employer's Membership  
This Agreement is made for and on behalf of and shail be binding upon all persons, firms or corporations that at the time  
of the execution of this Agreement have given or subsequently give bargaining authorization to the Employer as defined  
in Section 2A.  
Once an Individual Employer is bound by the Agreement, they shall remain bound by the Agreement for the term thereof  
and shall remain bound by any modifications, extensions or renewals thereto unless that Individual Employer gives  
appropriate written notice to the Northern California District Council of Laborers prior to the termination of the  
Agreement.  
Section 16B - Agreement Binding Upon Parties  
This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, purchasers and assigns of the  
parties hereto.  
Section 17 - Contracting-Piece Work  
No work shall be let or paid for by piece work, contract or lump sum direct with laborers for labor services.  
Section 18 - Wages  
Wages for General Laborers and for special classifications are set forth in the Supplements attached hereto and made  
a part hereof as if set forth in full herein and shall be effective on June 30, 2002, and on succeeding anniversary dates  
as herein provided on all work, both old and new.  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 17  
   
### AGC Se,  
### CALIFOR  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 18  
    
Sr  
### CALIFGRHIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
A. Subsistence for employees performing work under the terms of this Agreement is set forth in Supple-  
ment No. 6 attached hereto and made a part hereof as if set forth in full herein.  
B. Onajob where a Craft with whom Empleyer has negotiated a short work week terminates early on  
Friday, the Individual Employer will keep the laborer employed the balance of the work day when the  
Employer determines that work is available.  
C. On public work projects where wage determinations exist, such pre-determined wage and fringe rates  
referenced in the bid specifications shall remain in effect for the duration of said project, provided,  
however, that each segment let by the Owner shall be deemed the project; provided, further that this  
provision shall not apply to projects where the formal advertised sealed bid procedure is not used.  
Whenever non-signatory and/or non-union contractors appear on a public works plan holders list and  
where the prevailing wage determination is less than that which is provided for in the current Master  
Labor Agreement, the employer signatory to the 2002-2006 Laborers’ Master Agreement may bid the  
sroject pursuant to the prevailing wage determination attached to and part of the bid specifications for  
that project. Payments to the Health and Welfare Trust Fund shall be maintained at the Laborers’  
Master Agreement rates. In no event shall wages be frozen for more than thirty-six (36) months on any  
one project. Employers should notify ibe appropriate local Union whenever utilizing this provision.  
Section 19 - Wages Applicable to Classifications  
Wage rates shall be recognized as applying to classifications rather than to persons and any worker performing work  
shall be paid at the rate which the classificalion of their work calls for, except when it is necessary to temporarily  
transfer workers from one classification to another, in which event such workers shall be paid on the basis of the highest  
rate and the duration of payment at the highest rate shall be reckoned by the day and the half day.  
When workers are requested for one classification and this work is no longer available at the rate and type of work they  
were requested for, then the workers have the right to accept or reject the employment offered. If the worker so desires,  
worker shall be given a written notice of reduction in force, stating that the classification that the worker was originally  
hired for is no longer available; or the worker may have the choice of a lesser rate of pay.  
Section 20A - Overtime Rates, Hours and Working Conditions  
1. Work Day  
Eight (8) consecutive hours (exclusive of meal period), shail constitute a day’s work for straight time rates unless the  
job or project is on a four-ten (4x 10) hour day workweek in which case the workday shall be ten (10) consecutive hours  
(exclusive of meal period) at straight time rates. basic Crafts employed by the Individual Employer on the job site  
and/or contract, are employed on the basis of 4 x 10 hour work week, the Laborers’ shall work on the same basis).  
2. Work Week  
On single shift work and on the first shift of a multiple shift operation, five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) consecutive  
hours (exclusive of meal period), Monday through Friday, shall constitute a week's work except as otherwise provided  
for in this Agreement. The regular starting time of such shift shall de 8:00 a.m.  
(a) Wherein any locality, existing traffic conditions, job conditions or weather conditions render it desirable  
to start the day shift at an earlier hour, not earlier than 5:00 a.m., or a later starting time, not later than  
10:00 a.m., the Individual Employer is permitted to do so.  
   
   
(b) Special Single Shift: When the Individual Empioyer produces evidence in writing to the appropriate  
Locai Union or the Union of a bona fide job requirement which certifies that work can only be done  
outside the normal shift hours, and notifies the appropriate Local Union or the Union by certified mail at  
least three (3) days prior to the start of such special shift, the Individual Employer may initiate such  
special shift of eight (8) consecutive hours (not in conjunction with any other shift), exclusive of meal  
period, Monday through Friday. Such shift shall be in accordance with the provisions of subsection 5(a)  
of this Section. Provided, however, if, by direction of the Contracting Authority, the bid specifications  
require it, or congestive traffic conditions on Fridays are such that work conditions would be unsafe for  
employees, or counter-productive to the performance of work, the special single shift may commence on  
Sunday with double (2) time to be paid from the start of the shift to 8:00 p.m. and the applicable straight-  
time rate paid from 8:00 p.m. until completion of the eight (8) hour special single shift.  
NOTE: Special Single Shift rates: Area “A” $3.00/hr., Area “B” $2.85/hr. over classification.  
All current projects are grandfathered. The new Single shift will be-  
come effective when recognized and published by the Department of Industria] Relations  
for the State of California.  
(c) Four (4) by Ten (10) Workweek (4 x 10): An Individual Employer may establish a workweek of four (4)  
consecutive days of ten (10) consecutive hours. Applicable overtime rate shall be paid for all work before  
a shift begins, after ten (10) hours, and on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. In the event two (2) shifts  
are employed, ten (10) consecutive hours’ work, (on the 2nd shift) exclusive of meal period, shall  
constitute a shift’s work for which ten (10) hours shall be paid at the Second Shift Premium rate.  
Provided, further, all shifts are worked the same four (4) consecutive days during a 4 x 10 work week,  
except as may be changed by mutual agreement. All hours in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1)  
week shall be compensated at the applicable overtime rate.  
(d) that work cannot be performed Monday through Friday or Monday through Thursday (4x  
10 hour workweek) because of inclement weather, major mechanical breakdown or lack of materials  
beyond the control of the Employer, employees (at their option) may make up such day on Friday or  
Saturday, whichever the case may be, and shall be paid at the applicable straight time rate.  
Notwithstanding the above, it shall not bea violation of this Agreement to start individual employees at  
no more than one (1) hour prior to the regularly established starting time.  
3. On shift work, the day shift, eight (8) hours work for eight (8) hours’ pay. When two shifts are employed for five  
(5) or more consecutive days, on the second shift eight consecutive hours’ (exclusive of meal period), shall constitute a  
day of work, for which eight (8) times the straight time hourly rate shall be paid at the Second Shift Premium rate.  
When three shifts are employed for five (5) or more consecutive days, seven and one-half (7 4) consecutive hours  
(exclusive of meal period) shall constitute a day of work, for which eight (8) times the straight time hourly rate shall be  
paid for the second shift. The third shift shall be seven (7) hours for eight (8) hours pay. On two shift operations, the  
first shift shall have a regular starting time not earlier than 5:00 a.m., and not later than 8:00 a.m. On three shift  
operations, the first shift shall start at 8:00 a.m. Shifts shall run consecutively with not more than one hour between  
shifts.  
The Friday graveyard shift, though coming off work Saturday morning, is to be considered working Friday. Work  
performed after 8:00 a.m. Saturday morning shall be deemed Saturday work.  
The Saturday graveyard shift, though coming off work Sunday morning, is to be considered working Saturday. Work  
performed after 8:00 a.m. Sunday morning shall be deemed Sunday work. The Sunday graveyard shift, though coming  
2002 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 19  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
  
Agreement  
Page 20  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
off work Monday morning, is to be considered working Sunday, with the exception that a graveyard shift employee who  
has worked seven (7) cr more hours prior to the scheduled starting time of the Monday day shift and continues to work  
after such starting time shall continue to receive the double (2) time wage rate.  
4. One and one-half (1%) times the regular straight time hourly rate shall be paid for ali work on Saturdays  
(except make-up day) and before a shift begins and after it ends. Double the regular straight time hourly rate shall be  
paid for all work on Sundays and holidays. On two shift operations, Laborers working a complete second shift of shift  
work on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shail be paid eight (8) hours of pay at the appropriate overtime rate for eight  
(8) hours of work. For work on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays on a three shift operation Laborers working a  
complete second shift shall be paid eight (8) hours of pay at the appropriate overtime rate for seven and one half (7 4)  
hours of work. Laborers working a complete third shift shall be paid eight (8) hours of pay at the appropriate rate for  
seven (7) hours of work.  
5, (a) From April 1, to November 14, the hours of employment shal! be reckoned by the day and half day. From  
November 15, to March 31, the hours of employment shall be reckoned by the day, three-quarter day and  
half day. The fraction of a half or three quarter day to be paid for as a half or three-quarter day.  
Overtime hours, Monday through Friday, shal] be reckoned by the hour and half hour. If after work ts  
hegun, work is suspended on account of weather conditions, not less than four (4) hours (or five (5) hours  
ona4x 10 shift) at the applicable rate shall be paid for work performed and any time thereafter shall  
be reckoned by the hour.  
(b) Whenever a Laborer is called out to work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays (except on make-up days),  
he/she shall be paid at least four (4) hours, five (5) hours on 4 x 10 shift, at the applicable overtime rate.  
All time worked beyond the first four (4) consecutive hours, five (5) consecutive hours on a 4 x 10 shift,  
on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be reckoned by the hour at the applicable overtime rate.  
On shift work, the above shall apply to Laborers called out to work on the day shift and second shift of  
a two shift operation only. If three shifts are employed, the above shail apply except that three and one-  
half (3 4) hours worked shall he paid as four (4) hours worked, seven (7) hours worked shall be paid as  
eight (8) hours worked, and hours worked in excess of three and one-half (3 %) hours but less than seven  
(7) shall be paid on a pro rata basis, except as modified by a 4x10 work week.  
NOTE: Shift differential applies only to the second shift of a two (2) shift operation. Shift  
differential Is as follows: Area “A” $3.00/hr., Area “B” $2.85/hr. over the appropriate class!-  
fication rate.  
(c) Tide Work: When an employee or employees are called out to work tide work, the employee shall receive  
a guarantee ofa full shift at straight time. The overtime rate for Saturday, Sunday and holidays or work  
in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period shall be the same rate of overtime pay as  
set forth in this Agreement. The hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. shall be worked at straight time.  
Work performed between 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. shall be considered overtime work.  
6. Watchpersons may be required to work any five (5) days out of the week on any shift and may also be required  
to do job office clean-up work. The overtime rates provided in paragraph 4 of this Section No. 20A shall apply  
only to watchpersons, cleaning and washing windows, service landscape laborers for work in excess of eight  
(8) hours in any one day, or forty (40) hours per week.  
Employees cleaning and washing windows (after initial cleaning) and service landscape laborers (establish-  
ment warranty period), may be required to work any five (5) days out of the week on any shift.  
   
7. When the Individual Employer sets up a camp or boarding house on a project, the charge made to the employee  
for board and room shall not exceed the subsistence rate incurred during a calendar week.  
8. Any employees such as a flagperson shal! be furnished adequate relief for use of toilet facilities.  
Seetion 20B - Parking  
In the event free parking facilities are not available within five (5) blocks of a job site, the Individual Employer will  
provide such parking facilities and the Individual Employer shall have the right to designate parking areas to be used.  
Where, because of congested parking conditions, it is necessary to use public parking facilities, the Individual Employer  
will reimbirse the employees for the cost of such parking upon being presented with a receipt or voucher certifying to  
the cost thereof, submitted weekly. Such reimbursement is to be made on a weekly basis or at the conclusion of the  
project, whichever occurs earlier.  
On remote jobs when the access to where the work is being performed (at a job or project or within a job or project) is  
unsuitable, and no parking facilities are provided within a five (5) minute-walk from where the work is being  
performed, the Individual Employer shal! transport the employees to and from the place where the work is being  
performed, and such transporting shall be one-half (14) on the Individual time and one-half on the  
employee's time. :  
Section 21 - Status of Foremen  
When the Individual Employer determines that a foreman is required to supervise a crew of Laborers, he/she shall be  
or become a member of this Union in accordance with Subsection 3A of this Agreement.  
Section 22 - Steward  
A. The Union may select an employee on the job as a Steward and he/she shall be a working employee. Written  
notification shall be given to the Individual Employer of such assignment. The Union agrees that the Steward’s  
duties shall be performed as expeditiously as possible and the Individual Employer agrees to allow him/her a  
reasonable amount of time for the performance of his/her duties. The Individual Employer will give the Union  
forty-eight (48) hours advance written notice before terminating the Steward unless the job is completed or he/  
she is discharged for cause.  
B. The Steward shall be limited to and shal! not exceed the following duties and activities:  
(1) Check the dispatch of each employee dispatched under the terms of this Agreement.  
(2) Report to his Business Representative all violations of this Agreement.  
(3) Report to his Business Representative any employee covered by this Agreement who, during his/her  
shift, leaves the job site without giving the Individual Employer and the Steward prior notice.  
C. The Steward shall not:  
(1) | Stop the Individual Employer's work for any reason or tell any workers or any employee covered by this  
Agreement that he/she cannot work on the job.  
(2) of either of the two rules set forth in (C) (1) above shall be cause for immediate dismissal of  
the Steward without any prior notice.  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 21  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 22  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Section 23 - Recognized Holidays  
The following days are recognized as holidays: Every Saturday and Sunday in the year, except as otherwise provided  
herein: New Year's Day, President's Birthday, Memoriat Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day After  
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.  
If any of the above holidays fall on Sunday, the Monday foltowing shall be constdered a holiday.  
Martin Luther King Day will become a recognized holiday when and !f the five basic crafts adopt it as a holiday.  
Section 24 - Gunite, Shot Crete, Panel Crete and Similar Type Work including all  
placing, finishing and patching of Shot Crete or Gunite  
The wages and certain other conditions not specifically enumerated elsewhere in this Agreement for the Gunite, Shot  
Crete, Panel Crete and Similar Type Work including all placing, finishing and patching of shotcrete or gunite are set  
forth in Supplement 2 attached hereto and made a part hereof as if set out in full herein covering the territory in which  
the Agreement is to apply.  
Section 25 - Wrecking Work; Gardening, Horticultural and Landscaping Work  
The wages and certain other conditions not specifically enumerated elsewhere in this Agreement for Wrecking Work are  
set forth in Supplement 3; for Gardening, Horticultural and Landscaping Work are set forth in Supplement 4. Each of  
the Supplements referred to herein is made a part hereof as if set forth in full herein.  
Section 26 - Liability of the Parties  
Itis mutually understood and agreed that neither the Employer, any Individual Employer, the Union nor any Local Union  
shall be liable for damages caused by the acts or conduct of any individual or group of individuals who are acting or  
conducting themselves in violation of the terms of this Agreement without authority of the respective party, provided that  
such action or conduct has not been specifically authorized, participated in, fomented or condoned by the Employer, the  
Individual Employer, the Union or the Local Union, as the case may be.  
In the event of any unauthorized violation of the terms of this Agreement, responsible and authorized representatives of  
the Union, Local Union, the Employer or the Individual Employer, as the case may be, shall proinptly take such  
affirmative action as is within their power to correct and terminate such violation for the purpose of bringing such  
unauthorized persons into compliance with the terms of this Agreement. Such individuals acting or conducting  
themselves in violation of the terms of this Agreement shail be subject to discipline, up to and inciuding discharge.  
Section 27 - Employees Not To Be Discharged For Recognizing Authorized Picket Lines  
The parties to this Agreement recognize that it is vital to the unionized segment of the construction industry that the  
work opportunities of the employee and the Individual Employer signatory to this Agreement proceed without interrup-  
tion because of disputes involving unions not signatory to an Agreement with the Employer.  
No employee covered hereby may be discharged by any Individual Employer for refusing to cross a picket line established  
by a Local Union of the basic crafts.  
   
   
Section 28A - Health and Welfare Plan, Pension/Annuity Pian, Vacation-Holiday-Dues  
Supplement Plan, Training-Retraining/Apprenticeship Pian  
In continuation of the Laborers Health and Welfare Trust Fund for Northern California, the Laborers Pension/Annuity  
Trust Fund for Northern California, the Laborers Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement Trust Fund for Northern Califor-  
nia and the Laborers Training-Retraining/Apprenticeship Trust Fund for Northern California (provided for in Trust  
Agreements dated March 4, 1953, August 2, 1963, April 1, 1985, June 4, 1963, November 19, 1968 and December 31,  
1975, respectively, as amended and modified, and the appropriate plans adopted thereunder), each Individual Employer  
shall pay hourly contributions for each hour paid for and/or worked, including overtime pay, shift pay, show-up time pay  
and similar payments in accordance with the schedule specified in this Section, as follows:  
6/24/02 6/30/03 6/28/04 6/27/05  
Health & Welfare $3.29 $ * 3” $ *  
Retiree Health & Welfare S 30 $ * $ * $ *  
Pension $2.16 $ * 5 * $ *  
Annuity $ .71 $ * $ * $3 *  
Vacation/Holiday/Dues Supplement $2.28 $ * $ * $ *  
*«Training-Retraining/Apprenticeship | $ 34 $ * $ * $ *  
Contract Administration $ .06 $ * $ * 5 *  
***Tndustry Stabilization Fund $ 1 $ * 3 * $ *  
Laborers-Employers Cooperation $  * 3 * $ * $ *  
" And Education Trust (L.E.C.E.T)  
*To be allocated.  
**Effective 6/28/99 four cents ($.04) per hour is earmarked for L.E.C.E.T.  
***Pffective 6/28/99 two cents ($.02) per hour is earmarked for California Alliance for Jobs and one cent  
per hour for Construction Industry Force Account Council (CIFAC).  
Each Individual Employer shall be subject to and entitled to the benefits of all of the provisions of the Trust Agreements  
specified herein establishing said Funds and any amendment or modification or amendments or modifications. In order  
to provide for benefits to employees without disruption during periods of contract negotiations and to assure an orderly  
means of collecting Trust Fund contributions during such periods, each signatory employer agrees that he/she shall be  
obligated to contribute to each and every Trust Fund referred to in this Agreement for any period following their  
termination date of this Agreement unless and until a lawful impasse occurs or until a successor Agreement is  
negotiated. Each signatory employer further agrees that any and all said Trust Funds may enforce this obligation by  
action to collect such delinquent contributions filed in any court of competent jurisdiction.  
The Health & Welfare Plan shall be supplemented to provide that the Trustees shall apply amounts from the contribu-  
tions specified in this Agreement to such Plan for the purpose of providing benefits to employees retired pursuant to the  
provisions of the Laborers Pension Trust Fund for Northern California.  
The parties agree that the Trustees of the Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement Trust Fund may allocate up to twenty-five  
percent (25%) of the applicable contributions for Holiday pay.  
The Union and the Employer agree that the Individual Employers covered by the Master Agreement may continue the  
coverage of their supervisory personnel above the rank of foreman in the Laborers Health & Welfare Trust Fund for  
Northern California, the Laborers Pension/Annuity Trust Fund for Northern California, the Laborers Vacation-Holiday-  
Dues Supplement Trust Fund for Northern California, the Laborers Training-Retraining/Apprenticeship Trust Fund  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
      
   
### AGC Sa’  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 24  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
for Northern California by paying into all Trusts monthly on the basis of one hundred seventy hours (170) hours per  
month in accordance with the schedules set forth in the Master Agreement, regardless of the hours worked by any such  
employee in a month, provided, however, the Individual Employer having made one (1) payment on an employee shall  
continue to make such a payment so long as the employee is in his employ.  
Section 28B - Delinquency Withdrawals  
In the event that the Board of Trustees of a fund into which the Individual Employers are required to pay, determine that  
an Individual Employer is delinquent in the making of any payments required by Section 28A hereof, it shail not bea  
violation of this Agreement, so long as such delinquency continues, if the Union takes economic action against such  
Individual Employer and such economic action shall not bea strike or work stoppage within the terms of this Agreement.  
In the event that any employees of any Individual Employer should be withdrawn pursuant to any similar clause in any  
agreement between the Collective Bargaining Representative of the Employer and any other Union, then the Union may  
respect such withdrawal, and for the period thereof, may refuse to perform any work for such Individual Employer and  
such refusal for such period shall not be a violation of this Agreement. Any employees so withdrawn or refusing to  
perform any work as herein provided shall not lose their status as employees but no such employee shall de entitled to  
claim or receive any wages or other compensation for any period during which he has been so withdrawn or refused to  
perform any werk.  
Section - Security For Individual Employer Payments Into Trust Funds  
Each Individual Employer delinquent by one (1) or more months in making the payments set forth in Section 28A above  
shall be notified by mais by the Administrator of the Trust or Trusts applicable of such delinquency. Copies of such  
notices shall be sent to the Employer and to the Union. Each such delinquent Individual Employer shail, within five (5)  
days of the receipt of such notice (certified mail), give a satisfactory bond in a sum equal to two (2) times the amount of  
the delinquency. Such amounts are to be determined by the Administrator of the Trust or Trusts applicable. Such bond  
is not in any way to be construed as in lieu of any payments required under this Agreement.  
All such bonds shall be deposited with the Administrator and shal! be in a form acceptable by the Administration of the  
various trusts.  
If the bond must be used to make any payments under Section 28A, the money shall be prorated among the amounts  
owed by such Individual Employer, with the first priority tc the Vacation-Holiday- Dues Supplement Trust Fund, and the  
balance dispersed equally to the Health & Welfare, Pension/Annuity and Training-Retraining/ApprenticeshipTrusts.  
Whenever an Individual Employer fails to deposit a satisfactory bond within the time provided by this Section, if the  
notice herein provided for has been given, the Local Union shail not be required to dispatch employees, and further  
economic action by the Union to obtain compliance of this Section will not be a violation of Section 8 of this Agreement.  
Any employees so withdrawn or refusing to perform any work as herein provided, shall not tose their status as  
employees, but no such employee shall be entitled to claim or receive any wages or other compensation for any period  
during which he/she has been so withdrawn or refused to perform any work.  
Whenever any Employer covered by this Agreement is delinquent with respect to the payment of any contributions or  
other sum of money due to any trust fund specified in this Agreement, the Union may withdraw workers and place  
appropriate pickets at the premises of the Employer or places where said Employer is performing work.  
Section 28E - Supplemental Dues  
Effective for all work performed on and after June 25, 2001 it is agreed that upon authorization as required by law, the  
amount of sixty-three cents ($.63) per hour for each hour paid for or worked shall be transmitted from the Vacation-  
   
amount of sixty-three cents ($.63) per hour for each hour paid for or worked shall be transmitted from the Vacation-  
Holiday benefit of each Laborer and shall be remitted directly to the Union. This amount of sixty-three cents (5.63) shall  
not be deemed to be part of the Vacation-Holiday benefit but is an amount specifically agreed to as a Supplemental Dues  
benefit. The amount of the Supplemental Dues transmittal shail be specified on a statement sent to the Laborer. Such  
remittance shall be made to the Union not less than twice per year.  
Section 28F - Wage and Fringe increase  
[tis agreed effective June 24, 2002, thirty cents ($.30) per hour will be allucated to Retiree Health & Welfare, six cents  
($.06) per hour to Contract Administration Fund, thirty-four cents ($.34) per hour to the Training-Retraining/Appren-  
ticeship Fund for the Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust (L.E.C.E.T), seventy-one cents ($.71) per  
hour to Annuity and eleven cents ($.11) per hour to the Industry Stabilization Fund of which two cents ($.02) per hour  
is earmarked for the California Allianee for Jobs and one cent (8.01) per hour is earmarked for the Construction  
Industry Force Account Council.  
There shall be an additional ninety-five cents ($.95) per hour increase effective on 6/30/03; an additional ninety ($.90)  
cents per hour increase effective 6/30/04; and an additional ninety (3.90) cents per hour increase effective 6/30/05.  
Entry Level Laborer wage rate will be frozen for the duration of the Agreement, except for fringe benefit increases  
which will be paid for by the Employer.  
The Union may elect at its option upon ninety (90) days notice to the Employer, prior to 6/30/03, 6/30/04, and 6/30/05  
to allocate each increase to any or all of the following:  
Wages  
Health and Welfare  
Retiree Health and Welfare  
Pension/Annuity  
Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement  
Training-Retraining/Apprenticeship  
Contract Administration  
Industry Stabilization  
Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust (L.E.C.E.T)  
OO SI oD UTR Ww he  
provided, ifany or all of the allocation is made to Fringe Benefits. such Fringe Benefits shall be effective on 6/30/03,  
and 6/27/05 as applicahie.  
{n the event the Laborers Health and Welfare Trust Fund fails below a six (6) month reserve, any package increase  
negotiated by the collective bargaining parties, shall he reviewed at least 90 days prior to the effective date of such  
increase, and by mutual agreement such monies as are deemed necessary to provide sufficient reserve (not less than six  
(6) months), shall be allocated to the Health and Welfare Trust Fund. Such monies as are determined appropriate for  
this allocation shall have as their intent to build a six (6) month reserve.  
Section 29 - General Saving Clause  
[t is not the intent of either party hereto to violate laws, rulings or regulations of any governmental authority or agency  
having jurisdiction of the subject matter or of this Agreement, and the parties hereto agree that in the event any  
provisions of this Agreement are finally held or determined to be illegal or void as being in contravention of any such  
laws, rulings or regulations; nevertheless, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full foree and effect, unless  
the parts so found to be void are wholly inseparable from the remaining portion of this Agreement. The clauses hereof  
relating to “Hiring,” subsection 3A hereof, and “No Cessation of Work,” Section 8 hereof, are intended to be inseparable  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreemeni  
Page 25  
   
AGC S ae  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### QF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 26  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
and mutually interdependent. Should either of such sections be held or determined to he illegal or void for any reason,  
then both of said clauses shal! forthwith become of no further force or effect, and neither party shall by implication be  
bound thereby. The parties agree that if and when any provisions of this Agreement are finally held or determined to be  
illegal or void, they will then promptly enter into lawful negotiations concerning the substance thereof.  
ii is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that each and every, all and singular, of the provisions of this Agreement  
be fully in accordance with Federal and State Law. Its interpretation and the interpretation of each of the provisions of  
this Agreement is therefore intended to apply no broader than that permitted by law.  
Section 30 - Change of Name or Style  
This Agreement is binding upon each Individual Employer regardless of whether he/she orit changes the name or style  
or address of his/her or their business. Each Individual Employer shall give notice in writing to said District Council of  
any intent te change the name, style or address of his/her or its business, or to perform business under more than one  
name or style or at more than one address, prior to the adoption of a new or different name, styie or address, or the  
addition of new names or styles or addresses, as specified herein,  
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as adding to the scope of work covered hy this Agreement.  
Section 31 - Warranty  
Each of the persons executing this Agreement on behalf of their respective Employers or Unions hereby warrants his/  
her authority to execute this Agreement and to bind the respective party on whose behalf he/she signs.  
Section 32 - Effective and Termination Date  
This Agreement shall be effective as of the 24th day of June 2002, and remain in effect without reopening for any  
purpose until the 30th day of June 2006, and shall continue from year to year thereafter, unless either of the Collective  
Bargaining Representatives shall give written notice to the other of a desire to change the wages, hours and working  
conditions hereof not more than ninety (90) and not less than sixty (60) days prior to June 30 of any succeeding year.  
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive position of the parties within the  
industry during the term of this Avyreement. Consistent with that recognition, the parties will continually monitor the  
effectiveness of this Agreement relative to specific geographic or market area and will endeavor, by mutual agreement,  
to initiate such modifications to the Agreement during its term as may be necessary to assure the work opportunities of  
the employees and the competitive position of the Individual Employers.  
Itis agreed that in the event either party should exercise its rights under the paragraph first above set out, they will  
fur a period of sixty (60) days prior to the 380th day of June, 2006, or June 30th of any succecding year bargain with each  
other with respect to all wage rates, working conditions and hours of employment for the work herein covered.  
Should an impasse he reached during the course of future negotiations to amend and/or extend the present Agreement,  
or during the course of negotiations over a new agreement, either party may submit the items in dispute to the Dispute  
Settlement Board established in the AGC-Basic Trades Joint Labor Management Committee Impasse Settlement Plan  
for resolution. The findings of the Dispute Setttement Board shall be binding on the parties.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals by respective officers duly  
authorized to do so, this th day of June, 2002.  
### FOR THE EMPLOYER:  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
By  
Thomas T. Holsman, Executive Vice President & CEO  
### FOR THE UNION:  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS OF THE  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO  
By  
Doyle S. Radford, President  
By  
Bill Smith, Vice President  
By  
Jim Homer, Secretary/Treasurer  
By  
Jose Moreno, Business Manager  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 27  
   
### AGC Soe  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 28  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### SUPPLEMENTNU.T. | ©  
### LABORERS WAGE RATES  
WAGE RATES: In each group, two different wage rates will apply for each classification.  
Wage Rate A - will apply to the following six (6) counties:  
Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, San Francisco, San Mateo and Santa Clara.  
Wage Rate B - will apply to the following forty (40) counties,  
Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Colusa, Del Norte, E! Dorado, Fresno, Glenn, Humboldt, Kings, Lake, Lassen,  
Madera, Mariposa, Mendocino, Merced, Modoc, Monterey, Napa, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, San  
Benito, San Joaquin, Santa Cruz, Sierra, Shasta, Siskiyou, Solano, Sonoma, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama,  
Trinity, Tulare, Tuolumne, Yolo and Yuba.  
Labor Foremen -shall receive a $1.00 per hour above any classification of this Agreement working under his direction.  
### CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST - WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
RATEA $23.34 $ * 3 5 *  
RATEB $22.34 $ * 5 * 3 *  
### CLASSIFICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST  
Asphalt Ironers and Rakers  
Chainsaw  
Laser Beam in connection with Laborers’ work  
Masonry and Plasterer Tender  
Cast in place manhole form setters  
Pressure pipelayers  
Davis Trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small trenchers)  
Directional Boring Machine  
State Licensed Blaster as designated  
Diamond Drillers  
Multiple Unit Drills  
Hydraulic Drills  
Certified Welder  
New or additional classification subject to 14A of this Agreement  
### GROUP 1 - WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
RATE A $22.64 3 * $ * $ *  
RATE B $21.64 $ * $ * $ *  
ce  
### CLASSIFICATIONS OF GROUP |!  
Asphalt Spreader Boxes (all types)  
Barko, Wacker and Similar Type Tampers  
Bobcat  
Buggymobile  
Caulkers, Banders, Pipewrappers, Conduit Layers, Plastic Pipe Layers  
Certified Asbestos & Mold Removal Worker  
Certified Hazardous Waste Worker (Including Lead Abatement)  
Compactors of all types  
Concrete and Magnesite Mixer and “4 yard  
Concrete Pan Work  
Concrete Sanders, Concrete Saw  
Cribbers and/or Shoring  
Cut Granite Curb Setter  
Dri pak-it Machine  
Faller, Logloader and Bucker  
Form Raisers, Slip Forms  
Green Cutters  
Headerboard Men, Hubsetters, Aligners by any method  
High Pressure Blow Pipe (1-1/2" or over, 100 lbs pressure/over)  
Hydro Seeder & Similar Type  
Jackhammer Operators  
Jacking of Pipe over 12 inches  
Jackson and Similar Type Compactors  
Kettlemen, Potmen and men applying asphalt, Lay-Kold, Creosote,  
Lime, caustic and similar type materials, (applying means  
applying dipping or handling of such materials)  
Lagging, Sheeting, Whaling, Bracing, Trenchjacking, Lagging hammer  
Magnesite, Epoxy resin, Fiber Glass and Mastic Workers (wet/dry)  
No joint pipeand stripping of same, including repair of voids  
Pavement Breakers and Spaders, including tool grinder  
Perma Curbs  
Pipelayers (including grade checking in connection with pipe-laying)  
Precast-manhole setters  
Pressure Pipe Tester  
Post Hole Diggers - Air, Gas and Electric Power Broom Sweepers  
Power Tampers of all types, except as shown in Group 2  
Ram Set Gun and Stud Gun  
Riprap - Stonepaver and Rock-slinger, including placing of sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and Gabions  
and similar type  
Rotary Scarifier or Multiple Head Concrete Chipping Scarifier  
Roto and Witch  
Rototiller  
Sand Blasters, Potmen, Gunmen and Nozzlemen  
Signaling and Rigging  
Tank Cleaners  
Tree Climbers  
Turbo Blaster  
Vibra-Screed - Bull float in connection with Laborers’ work  
Vibrators  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 29  
   
   
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 30  
    
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
  
### GROUP I{a) - WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04  
RATEA $22.86 $ * $ *  
RATE B $21.86 $ * 5 *  
### CLASSIFICATIONS OF GROUP 1 (a)  
Joy Drill Model TWM-2A  
Gardener - Denver Model DH-143 and similar type drills.  
(In accordance with Memorandum of Understanding between  
Laborers and Operating Engineers dated at Miami, Florida, February 3, 1954.)  
Track Drillers  
Jack Leg Drillers  
Wagon Drillers  
Mechanical Drillers — All types regardless of type or method of power  
Mechanical Pipe Layer — All types regardless of type or method of power  
Blasters and Powderman  
All work of loading, placing and blasting of ail powder and explosives of  
whatever type, regardless of method used for such loading and placing  
High Scalers {including drilling of same)  
Tree Topper  
Bit Grinder  
### GROUP 1(b) - WAGE RATE  
6/30/05  
*  
$  
$ *  
Sewer Cleaners shail receive $4.00 per day above Group | wage rates. “Sewer Cleaner” means any workman who  
handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in smafl diameter sewers. Those who work inside recently active, large  
diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer manholes shall receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage rates.  
### GROUP 1(c) WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04  
RATEA $22.69 $ * $ *  
RATEB $21.69 $ + $ *  
### CLASSIFICATIONS OF GROUP 1(c)  
Burning and welding in connection with Laborers’ work Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding.  
GROUP 1(d)  
6/30/05  
Maintenance and Repair Trackmen and Road Beds and all employees performing work covered by this Agreement shall  
receive $.25 per hour above their regular rate for all work performed on underground structures not covered  
herein. This paragraph shall not be construed to apply to work below ground level in open cut. It shal] apply to cut and  
cover work of subway construction after the temporary cover has been placed.  
   
### GROUP 1(e) - WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
RATE A $23.19 $ * 3 * $ *  
RATE B $22.19 5 3° $ *  
### CLASSIFICATIONS OF GROUP 1(e)  
Work on and/or in Bell Hole Footings and Shafts thereof, and work on and in Deep Footings (Deep Footing is a hole fifteen  
(15) feet or more in depth). {n the event the depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of excavation, and  
the final depth exceeds fifteen (15) feet, the contractor agrees to pay the deep footing wage rate to all employees for each  
and every day worked on or in the exeavation of the footing from the date of inception.  
All work in the construction of tunnels and shafts shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the Laborers’  
Tunnel Master Agreement for Northern California and the Individual Employer agrees to comply with all of the  
provisions of said Tunnel Agreement in such work.  
Shaft is an excavation over fifteen (15) feet deep of any type, generally vertical in nature, but may decline from the  
vertical, and whose depth is greater than its largest horizontal dimension. It is specifically understood that Bell Hole  
Footings and Deep Footings are subject to the provisions of this Agreement, and all Shafts, Stopes, Raises and Tunnels  
are subject to the provisions of the Tunnel Master Agreement specified herein.  
### GROUP 1(f) - WAGE RATE  
Wire winding machine in connection with Guniting or Shot Crete.  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
Aligner-  
RATE A 323.22 5 * 5 * $ *  
RATE B $22.24 $ * $ *  
Helper-  
$22.24 $ * $ * 5 7  
RATE B $21.24 5 * $ * $ *  
### GROUP 1(g) - WAGE RATES FOR CONTRA COSTA COUNTY  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
RATE $22.84 $ * 5 * 5 7  
### CLASSIFICATIONS OF GROUP 1(g)  
Pipelayers (including grade checking in connection with pipelaying)  
Caulkers  
Banders  
Pipewrappers  
   
2002 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 31  
   
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Paye 32  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
Plastic Pipe Layer  
Pressure Pipe Tester  
No joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of voids  
Precast Manhole setters, cast in place manhole form setters  
GROUP 1(h)  
Laborers working off or with or from Bos’n Chairs, Swinging Scaffolds, Belts shall receive $.25 per hour above the  
applicable wage rate. This premium rate shall be reckoned by the day and half day. This shall not apply to Laborers  
entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1(a).  
### GROUP 2 - WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03  
RATE A $22.49 $ *  
RATE B $21.49 $ *  
### CLASSIFICATIONS OF GROUP 2  
Asphalt Shovelers  
Cement Dumpers an¢ handling dry cement or gypsura  
Choke-setter and Rigger (clearing work)  
Concrete Bucket Dumper and Chuteman  
Concrete Chipping and Grinding  
Concrete Laborers (wet or dry)  
Drillers Hetper, Chuck Tender, Nipper (One chucktender on single  
machine operation with minimum of one chucktender for each two  
machines on multiple machine operations. (Jackhammers in no way  
involved in this item.)  
Guinea Chaser (Stakeman), Grout Crew  
High Pressure Nozzlemen, Adductors  
Hydraulic Monitor (over 100 Ibs. pressure)  
Loading and unloading, carrying and handling of all rods and materials  
for use in reinforcing concrete construction  
Pittsburgh Chipper, and similar type brush shredders  
Sloper  
Single foot, hand held, pneumatic tamper  
All Pneumatic, Air, Gas and Electric Tools not listed in Groups 1 through 1(f)  
Jacking of Pipe - under 12 inches  
### GROUP 3- WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03  
RATEA $22.39 $5 *  
RATE B $21.39 $ *  
### CLASSIFICATIONS OF GROUP 3  
Construction Laborers, including Bridge Laborers and General Laborers  
Dumpman, Load Spotter  
6/30/04  
6/30/04  
$  
$  
$  
$  
*  
&  
*  
*  
6/30/05  
$  
$  
*  
&  
6/30/05  
$  
$  
®  
*  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
  
Page 33  
Flagperson  
Fire Watcher  
Fence Erectors  
Forktift  
Guardrail Erectors  
Gardeners, Horticultural and Landscape Laborers (See Supplement No. 4)  
Jetting  
Limbers, Brush Loaders and Pilers  
Pavement Markers (Button Setters)  
Maintenance, Repair Trackmen and Road Beds  
Pilot Car  
Skip Loader (up to and including % Cubic Yard)  
Streetcar and Railroad Construction Track Laborers  
Temporary Air and Water Lines, Victaulic or similar  
Tool Room Attendant (job site only)  
### GROUP 3(a) - WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
RATEA $22.39 $ * 5° $ *  
RATE B $21.39 5 * 5 * . § *  
### CLASSIFICATION OF GROUP 3(a)  
Composite Crew Person - Shall apply only to the operation of vehicles, when operated in conjunction with Laborers  
duties,  
### GROUP 4- WAGE RATE  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
RATEA $16.08 5 * $ *. 5 *  
RATE B $15.08 5 * $ * 3°  
### CLASSIFICATION OF GROUP 4  
All cleanup work of debris, grounds and building including but not limited to street cleaners  
Cleaning & Washing Windows (subject to provisions of Section 20A)  
Brick Cleaners (job site only)  
Watchman (Subject to provisions of Section 20A)  
Material Cleaners (job site only)  
The classification “Material Cleaner” is to be utilized under the following conditions:  
   
A. At demolition sites for the salvage of the  
B. At the conclusion of a job where the material is to be salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job.  
; +4, 7 ws ASSOCIATED  
C. The cleaning of salvage material at the Employer's job site or temporary job site yard. GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 34  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
ah ev _ ev — ee  
It was not the intent of either party to utilize the classification of “Material Cleaner” in the performance of “form  
stripping cleaning and oiling and moving to the next point of erection.”  
Laborers that are to be used under the Group 4 classification rate shall be so notified and given the opportunity to accept  
or reject the employment offered according to Section 19 of the Laborers’ Master Agreement.  
GROUP 5- (Entry Level Laborer) WAGE RATES  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
2,000 hours $11.40 $11.40 $11.40 $11.40  
At the discretion of the Employer, the scope of work includes, but is not limited to:  
Tending other crafts  
Watermeter Installer  
Residential Laborer  
An Individua! Employer may employ two (2) Entry Level Laborers for every four (4) regular Laborers on his  
Provided; further, the second (2nd) Entry Level Laborer would be permitted on a job or project only after four (4) regular  
Laborers are on the job or project.  
Each Entry Level laborer who completes the Basic Laborer Training Course at the Laborers’ Training School shall  
receive three (3) months credit towards becoming a regular Laborer under the terms of this Agreement.  
All other terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to all Entry Level Laborers. The provisions of this Group  
5 shall not apply to the Tunnel Master Agreement.  
### SUPPLEMENT NO. 2  
### GUNITE, SHOTCRETE, PANELCRETE AND SIMILAR TYPE WORK INCLUDING ALL  
### PLACING, FINISHING AND PATCHING OF SHOTCRETE OR GUNITE  
Hours and working conditions and wages shall be the same as in this Master Agreement except those expressly herein  
provided.  
### CLASSIFICATIONS/RATES PER HOUR:  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
Structural Nozzleman  
RATEA $23.60 5 * $ 7 $ *  
RATEB $22.60 $ * $ * $ *  
Nozzleman, Gunman and Potman  
RATE A $23.10 $ * $ * $ *  
RATEB $22.10 $ * $ * $ *  
### NS  
Rodman  
RATEA $23.10 $ * $ * $ *  
RATEB $22.10 $ * $ * $ *  
Groundman  
RATE A $23.10 $ * $ * $ *  
RATE B $22.10 $ * $ * $ *  
*Gunite Trainee  
RATE A $16.08 5° > * $ *  
RATE B $15.08 $ * 5 * $ *  
Reboundman  
RATE A $22.51 $ * 5 * $ *  
RATE B $21.51 $ * $ * $ *  
General! Laborers  
RATE A $22.39 5 * $ * $ *  
RATE B $21.39 $ * $ * $ *  
*One trainee shall be allowed for each three (3) Journeymen on a. crew. In the absence of the Journeyman, the trainee  
shall receive the Journeyman scale.  
Gunite Foreman  
RATE A $24.10 $ * $ * $ *  
RATE B $23.10 $ * $ * $ *  
Travel from Jurisdiction of One Area to Another Area:  
The Employer shall have the right to bring six (6) workers from one area into another area within the area covered by  
this Agreement. Such Employer shall notify the Local Union one day in advance of starting the job. Other workers will  
be obtained when available from the area where the work is to be performed.  
Travel and Out of Town Expense Allowance:  
All workers performing work covered by the Supplement at a job site located over sixty (60) miles from the main office  
or a permanently established district office of an Individual Employer shall receive a travel allowance as follows:  
© If the employee uses or rides in an employer provided vehicle he/she will be reimbursed at the rate of twenty ($0.20)  
cents per mile measured from the main office or permanently established district office.  
© Ifthe employee uses or rides in a vehicle not provided by the employer, he/she will be reimbursed at the rate of thirty  
($0.30) cents per mile, which shail include al} expenses including fuel.  
¢ Ifthe employer flies the employee to the jobsite, the employee will he reimbursed at the rate of five ($0.05) cents per  
mile.  
Each worker performing work covered by this Agreement shall be reimbursed for the cost of meals and lodging actually  
expended and not to exceed forty-five dollars ($45.00) per day on all jobs located over one hundred twenty (120) miles  
from the main office or a permanently established district office of an Individual Employer. If the employer provides the  
lodging, the employee will be reimbursed at the rate of twenty dollars ($20.00) per day for meals only. This out of town  
expense will be paid only on the actual days that the employee spending the night out of town.  
   
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 35  
     
   
+  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 36  
   
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
  
The bargaining parties agree to meet and confer on the issues contained tn IWC Wage Order 16.  
The bargaining parties agree to submit the 1999-2002 Letter of Understanding regarding dual coverage of a Project  
Labor Agreement and the Master Labor Agreement to counsel for legal review and interpretation.  
The bargaining parties agree to mect and confer as to the application of the Group 4 Clean-Up classification. The desire  
of the Union is to incorporate the essence of the AGC Letter of Understanding in the Master Labor Agreement.  
All projects bid or let prior to the effective date of this agreement shall be considered grandfathered, and therefore,  
subject to completion under the terms and conditions of the appropriate prior labor agreement.  
### SUPPLEMENT NO. 3  
### WRECKING WORK  
Hours and working conditions and wages shail be the same as in this Master Agreement, except those expressly herein  
provided.  
### CLASSIFICATIONS/RATES PER HOUR:  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
Skilled Wrecker - Group No. 1 (Removing and salvaging of sash, windows, doors, electric fixtures.)  
RATE A $22.64 $ 5 * $ *  
RATER $21.64 5 * 5 * 5 *  
Semi-skilled Wrecker - Group No. 2 (Salvaging of other building materials)  
RATEA $22.49 5 * 5" $ *  
RATEB $21.49 $ * $ * $ *  
Genera! Laborer - Group 4 (Includes all cleanup work, joading, lumber, toading and burning of debris)  
RATEA 316.08 5 * $ 5  
RATE B $15.08 $ * $ $ *  
### SUPPLEMENT NO. 4  
### GARDENERS, HORTICULTURAL & LANDSCAPE WORKERS  
Hours and working conditions and wages shall be the same as in this Master Agreement, except those expressly herein  
provided.  
### CLASSIFICATION/RATES PER HOUR:  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/36/04 6/30/05  
Gardeners, Horticultural and Landscape Laborers  
(New Construction)  
RATEA $22.39 $ * $ * $ *  
RATEB $21.39 $ * $ * $ *  
  
Service Landscape Laborers (Establishment Warranty Period)  
RATEA $16.08  
RATEB $15.08  
& *  
$ $ * $  
5 * $ * $ *  
The overtime rates provided in paragraph 5 of Section 20A shall apply only to service landscape laborers (establishment  
warranty period) for work in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week, or in excess of eight (8) hours in anyone day.  
Service landscape laborers (establishment warranty period), may be required to work any five (5) days out of the week  
on any shift. :  
### LANDSCAPE LABORER TRAINEE  
A new classification, Landscape Laborer Trainee, is based on an eighteen-month training program, as follows:  
EFFECTIVE DATE 6/30/02 6/30/03 6/30/04 6/30/05  
### RATEA  
1st 6 mos. @ 70% $15.67 $ * $ * $ *  
Ind 6 mos. @ 80% $17.91 $ * $ * $ *  
3rd 6 mos. @ 90% $20.15 $ * $ * $ *  
### RATE B  
1st 6 mos. @ 70% $14.97 $ * 5 * $ *  
2nd 6 mos. @ 80% $17.11 > * $ * 5 *  
3rd 6 mos. @ 90% $19.25 $ * $ * $ *  
(The above rates are wages only. Fringe Benefits are the same as in Section 28A of the Laborers’ Master  
Agreement.)  
Prior to employment, the Employer must submit in writing any request for employees from the Local Union; and, all  
employees must be referred by the Local Union in the area of work. *  
The ratio of trainees shal! be: One in three, with the understanding that each Individual Contractor utilizing the Trainee  
Classification must employ at least one second period Trainee in the second period of the Agreement and at least one  
third period Trainee in the third period of the Agreement before being eligible to employ another first period trainee.  
### SUPPLEMENT NO. 5  
### LABORERS’ APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM  
1. TERM OF APPRENTICESHIP: The term of apprenticeship shall be 3,000 hours within 18 months. The  
first 750 hours, shall be a tryout or probationary period.  
2. RATIO: A qualified employer may employ one (1) apprentice when at least five (5) journeymen are regularly  
employer, and one (1) additional apprentice for each five (5) additional journeymen.  
3. WORK TRAINING: The Employer shall see that all apprentices are under the supervision of a qualified  
journeyman or instructor and shall provide the necessary diversified experience and training in order to train and  
develop the apprentice into a skilled worker, proficient in all the work processes of a Construction Craft Laborer, as  
   
2002 - 2006  
Lahorers  
Agreement  
Page 37  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 38  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Le  
outlined herein. Apprentices shall also be trained in the use of new equipment, materials and processes as they come  
into use in the craft.  
4. WAGE SCHEDULE: Apprentices shall be paid not less that the following percentages of the current journeymen’s  
rate:  
Ist period  
2nd period  
3rd period  
4th period  
5th period  
6th period  
### 5. FRINGE BENEFIT SCHEDULE:  
Health & Welfare  
Retiree Health & Welfare  
Pension/Annuity  
Vacation  
Supplemental Dues  
Training-Retraining/  
Apprenticeship  
Contract Administration  
Industry Stabilization  
### SUPPLEMENT NO. 6 .  
### SUBSISTENCE  
It is hereby agreed that effective June 28, 1999, Supplement No. 6, Subsistence of the Laborers Agreement shall read  
as follows:  
### MAP DESCRIPTION FOR AREA FREE ZONE AND SUBSISTENCE ZONE:  
The following is a description based upon township and Area free zones and subsistence zones. Area free zones for all  
1 - 500 hours  
501 - 1000 hours  
1001 - 1500 hours  
1501 - 2000 hours  
2001 - 2500 hours  
2501 - 3000 hours  
Ist 1500 hours  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
### N/A  
### N/A  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
of Northern California within the following lines:  
   
50%  
55%  
60%  
70%  
80%  
90%  
2nd 1500 hours  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Per Master Agreement  
Commencing in the Pacific Ocean on the extension of the Southerly line of Township 19S,  
Thence Easterly along the Southerly line of Township 198,  
crossing the Mt. Diablo meridian to the S.W. Corner of township 19S, range 6E, Mt. Diablo base line and meridian,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 20S, range 65,  
Thence Easterly to the S.W. corner of township 20S, range 13K,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 215, range 13E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.W. corner of township 215, range 17E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 22S, range 17,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 22S, range 17E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 238, range 18E,  
  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 39  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 23S, range i8E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 24S, range 19E,  
falling on the Southerly line of Kings County, thence Easterly along the Southerly boundary of Kings County and the  
Southerly boundary of Tulare County, to the S.E. corner of township 24S, range 29E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 21S, range 29E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 218, range 29E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 13S, range 28K,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 138, range 28E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 11S, range 27E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 11S, range 27E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 10S, range 26E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 10S, range 26E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 98, range 25E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 9S, range 25E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 8S, range 24K,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 8S, range 24E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 6S, range 23E,  
Thence Westerly to the S.E. corner of township 5S, range 195,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 5S, range 19E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 58, range 19E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 38, range I8E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 3S, range 18E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 2S, range 17E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 2S, range  
Thence Northerly crossing the Mt. Diablo baseline to the N.E.  
corner of township 2N, range 16E  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 2N, range 16E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 3N, range 15E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 3N, range 15E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 4N, range 14E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 4N, range 14E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 5N, range 13E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 5N, range 13E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 10N, range 12E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 11N, range 14E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 11N, range I4E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.E. corner of township 11N, range 10E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 15N, range 10K,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 16N, range 11E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 16N, range 11E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 17N, range  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 14N, range 15E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 14N, range 15E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 13N, range 16K,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 13N, range 16E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 12N, range 17E,  
   
  
   
Thence Easterly along the Southern line of township 12N to the Eastern boundary of the State of California, AGC SS  
Thence Northwesterly, thence Northerly along the Eastern boundary of the State of California to the N.E. corner of CALIFORNIA  
township 17N, range 18E, ASSOCIATED  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township I7N, range 11E, GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 40  
   
   
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### NG  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 20N, range 10K,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 20N, range 10E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 21N, range 9E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 21N, range 9E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 22N, range 8E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 22N, range 8E,  
Thence Northerly to the S.W. corner of township 27N, range 8E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 27N, range 8E,  
Thence Northerly to the NE corner of township 28N, range 8E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 28N, range 7E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 30N, range 6E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 30N, range 1E,  
Thence Northerly along the Mt. Diablo meridian to the N.E. corner of township 34N, range 1W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 34N, range 6W,  
Thence Southerly to the N.E. corner of township 32N, range 7W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 32N, range 7W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 30N, range 7W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 30N, range 7W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 16N, range 6W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township.16N, range 6W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 14N, range 5W,  
Thence Westerly to the S.E. corner of township 14N, range 7W,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 14N, range  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 14N, range 7W,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 15N, range 8W,  
Thence Westerly to the S.E. corner of township 16N, range 12W,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township f6N, range 12W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 16N, range 12W,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township t8N, range 12W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township I8N, range 14W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 18N, range 14W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 18N, range  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 16N, range 13W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 15N, range 14W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 14N, range 14W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 14N, range 14W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 13N, range 13W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 13N, range 13W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 11N, range 12W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 11N, range 12W,  
Thence Southerly along the Eastern line of range 12W to the Pacific Ocean, excluding that portion of Northern California  
within Santa Clara County included within the following tine. Commencing at the N.W. corner of township 6S, range 3E,  
Mt. Diablo Baseline and meridian:  
Thence in a Southerly direction to the S.W. corner of township 7S, range 3E,  
Thence in an Easterly direction to the S.E. corner of township 7S, range 4E,  
Thence in a Northerly direction to the N.E. corner of township 6S, range4E,  ’  
Thence in a Westerly direction to the N.W. corner of township 6S, range 3E, to the point of beginning, which portion is  
apart of Area 2.  
Area 1 also ineludes that portion of Northern California within the following lines:  
   
### CA  
### I  
Commencing in the Pacific Ocean on an extension of the Southerly line of township 2N, Humboldt baseline and meridian:  
Thence Easterly along the Southerly line of township 2N, to the S.W.corner of township 2N, range 1W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 1N, range 1W,  
Thence Easterly along the Humboldt baseline to the S.W. corner of township 1N, range 2E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 2S, range 2E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 2S, range 2E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 4S, range 3E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 4S, range 3E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 2S, range 3E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 2S, range 3E,  
Thence Northerly crossing the Humboldt baseline to the S.W. corner of township 1N. range 3E,  
Thence Easterly along the Humboldt baseline to the S.E. corner of township 1N, range 3E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 9N, range 3E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 9N, range 2E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 10N, range LE,  
Thence Westerly along the Northerly line of township 10N, into the Pacific Ocean.  
Subsistence map change shall apply for work bid after June 16, 1980.  
Allareas other than free zones shall be subject to the payment of subsistence, as follows:  
On all work subject to travel and subsistence allowance specified in this Section, the daily subsistence allowance shall  
be as follows:  
July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2006 - $19.00/day.  
The Individual Employer shall not be required to pay subsistence to employees employed by an Individual Employer in a  
permanent yard or shop or plant and employees employed by an Individual Employer on residential construction projects  
(not camps); subdivisions; buildings of three (3) stories or less including utilities and site work related to these  
buildings; streets, roadways and utilities which are a part of a residential construction project.  
Subsistence shall not be applicable within the city limits of the following cities or towns:  
Auburn, Coalinga, Crescent City, Exeter, Grass Valley, Greenfield, Jackson, Jamestown, Lindsay, Mariposa, Nevada  
City, Placerville, Porterville, Sonora, Strathmore, Terrabella, Tuolumne, Twain Harte, Woodlake or Yreka.  
Subsistence shall apply to publicly financed camps, highways, dams, tunnels, power facilities, defense facilities,  
utilities (except as provided above), sewage disposal plants and heavy engineering projects together with the camps,  
warehouses, offices or facilities constructed in connection with such latter projects, such pay shall be separate from the  
wages of the employee and shall be paid him/her by separate check.  
No subsistence shall be paid on a job located within the right of way of a road or highway forming part of the boundary  
of a subsistence area.  
Ifa road or highway forming part of the boundary of a subsistence area is relocated, such relocated road or highway  
upon being officially opened shall form a part of the boundary of the subsistence area in place of the old road.  
When the work is to be performed in the subsistence zone, each employee employed to perform work covered by this  
Agreement shall receive subsistence pay specified herein.  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 41  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2002 - 2006  
Laborers  
Agreement  
Page 42  
  
When the work to be performed is in the non-subsistence zone, such employees shail not be entitled to receive subsistence  
pay, provided, however, if two or more hours of compensable time (straight time or premium time) are worked by said  
employee in the subsistence zone, he/she shall be entitled to be paid appropriate subsistence pay as specified herein for  
the entire day. An employee or person referred for employment shall be entitled to subsistence pay for any day on which  
he/she is required by or requested to report to the job of the Individual Employer, but does not perform work due to  
conditions beyond said Individual Employer's control (such as: rainy days, or days when steel or other materials are not  
available).  
if the Individual Employer maintains a camp in the subsistence area herein above described, the Individuaj Employer  
agrees not to charge the employees covered by this Agreement more than the amount allowed for subsistence hereunder -  
for suitable room and board incurred during a calender week.  
   
    
### AGC  
### CALIFORHIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### SCHEDULE “A”  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS HIRING HALL LOCATIONS  
Local City Street Address Phone Number Dispatch Hours  
*67 Oakland 8400 Enterprise Way, #119 510/569-4761 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
*67 Sacramento 2717 Cottage Way, #12 916/482-2607 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
73 Stockton 2841 E. Myrtle St. 209/466-3356 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
139 Santa Rosa 81 Barham Avenue 707/542-1107 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
185 Sacramento 1320 W. National Dr. 916/928-8300 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
185 Redding 2865 Churn Creek Rd., #D 530/221-0961 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
185 Yuba City 1650 Sierra Ave., #206 530/674-4707 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
261 San Francisco 3271 - 18th St. 415/826-4550 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
270 San Jose 509 Emory St. 408/297-2620 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
270 Santa Cruz 640 Eaton St. 831/475-7058 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
291 San Rafael 4174 Redwood Hwy. 415/492-0936 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
291 Napa (Phone dispatch only) t 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
294 Fresno 5431 E. Hedges Ave. 559/255-3019 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
294 Visalia 319 N. Church 559/734-9426 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
297 Salinas 117 Pajaro St. 831/422-7077 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
297 Monterey 254 Casa Verde Way 831/648-1081 a.m.  
304 Hayward 29475 Mission Blvd. 516/581-4681 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
304 Oakland 8035 International Blvd. 510/562-2662 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
304 Livermore 2063 Research Drive 925/455-8292 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
324 Martinez 611 Berrellesa St. 925/228-0930 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
324 Pittsburg 1085 Cumberland St. 925/439-1021 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
324 Richmond 101 So. 12th St. §10/234-1069 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
326 Vallejo 2920 Sonoma Blvd., Suite B 707/643-7214 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
389 San Mateo 300 - 7th Street 650/344-7168 6:30-9:00 a.m.  
1130 Modesto 2549 Yosemite Blvd., Ste. K 209/521-9883 a.m.  
*Asbestos  
 