ake’  
.  
8, “4 \ = &  
lA “Ap  
   
184  
9.  
00 DW  
2002-2006  
### 4 PPK  
### TUNNEL  
### MASTER AGREEMENT  
of pt  
eiween  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF  
### CALIFORNIA, INC.-  
—— —_  
    
And  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
### OISTRICT COUNCIL OF  
### LABORERS  
Affiliated with  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF NOKTH AMERICA  
Employment .............. . 7(B)  
Employment and Discharge ....7 .........  
General Provisions ........... 1...  
General Saving Clause ........ i  
Grievance Procedure ......... 22  
ee eee 20 ........  
Health & Welfare Plan,  
Pension & Annuity Plan ...... 26(A)  
Hiring Hall Location ~ Schedule "A" .........  
Holidays Recognized ......... 19 .....,...  
Hours, Overtime Rates,  
and WorkingConditions ...... 18(1)  
Industry Stabilization Fund ..... 22(B)  
Jurisdictional Disputes ........ 4(B)  
Liability of the Parties ........ 23 eae  
Local Union Dispatch  
Hours —Schedule "A"  
Lunchtime GQ  
Maintenance Work........... 18(1F)  
No Cessation of Work ........ 149  
Overtime Rates ............. 18(1G)  
Parking eee 18(2)  
Payment of Wages .......... .......  
Pre-Job Conference .......... 7  
Protective Clothing .......... 17  
Records ean 10 ........  
Safety ae 15B........  
Shift Work 18(1C)  
Show-up Time ............. Bow. kee ae  
Special Single Shifts ......... 18(1I)  
   
Steward ....... re 21 wie 48  
Subcontractors 3 ena iis 6  
Supplemental Dues .......... 26(D) ...... 65  
Subsistence 30 67  
Subsistence  
Area — Supplement #2..........0000008 85  
Tunnel Master Agreement  
Relating to Compressed  
Air Operations  
Supplement eee 76  
Union Security T(A) eee 14  
Security for Individual Employer  
Payments into Trust Funds... .26(C) ...... 63  
Union’s Recognition of Collective  
Bargaining Representative of  
Employer 6(A) 12  
Wage Rates 33 eee eee 68  
Wages Applicable to  
Classification 11 ........ 30  
Warranty 00 cee eee ee te es 58  
itt  
### TUNNEL MASTER AGREEMENT  
2002 - 2006  
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 22nd  
day of October, 2001 and effective the 24th day of June,  
2002 by and between the ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC., hereinafter  
### referred to as the COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REP-  
### RESENTATIVE OF THE EMPLOYER, and _ the  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA DISTRICT COUNCIL OF  
### LABORERS OF THE LABORERS' INTERNATION-  
### AL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO, here-  
inafter referred to as the UNION, modifying, amending  
and changing the Agreement made and entered into the  
17th day of May, 1951, as modified by the Agreements  
dated June 18, 1952; July 14, 1953; April 13, 1954; April  
12, 1955; April 30, 1956; April 19, 1957; November 14,  
1958; October 30, 1959; July 28, 1961; June 27, 1962;  
June 15, 1965; June 16, 1968; June 16, 1971; June 16,  
1974; June 28, 1977; June 13, 1980; June 1, 1983; June  
16, 1986, and June 16, 1989, June 16, 1992 to June 30,  
1997 and June 16, 1996 to June 30, 1999 and June 28,  
1999 to June 30, 2002 by and between the ASSOCIAT-  
### ED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA,  
### INC., and the NORTHERN CALIFORNIA DISTRICT  
### COUNCIL OF LABORERS of the LABORERS'  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA,  
### AFL-CIO.  
### WITNESSETH:  
### SECTION 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS  
A. The terms shall refer to ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement,  
including Section 6 and it is the specific under-  
standing of the parties that only those members of the  
Employers who have authorized the Employers to exe-  
cute this agreement on their behalf, or who execute the  
Agreement directly with the Union, shall be bound to  
this Agreement.  
B. The term "Union" shail refer to the Northern  
California District Council of Laborers of the Laborers'  
International Union of North America, AFL-CIO, and its  
affiliated local unions.  
C. This Agreement shall cover the CONSTRUCTION,  
### ALTERATION, REPAIR AND DEMOLITION of tun-  
nels, subways, shafts, raises and all underground exca-  
vations including lining of same. (Open cut work shall  
be excluded from this Agreement except as follows:  
Where open cut work is covered over or decked with  
wood, steel or other substitute material and workers are  
required to work under such cover, they shall be paid in  
accordance with the classifications of this Agreement for  
all excavation, cutting and placing, lagging and stud gun  
work.)  
   
D. This Agreement shall apply to any employee who  
performs work falling within the recognized jurisdiction  
of those local unions of the Laborers’ International  
Union of North America, affiliated with the Northern  
California District Council of Laborers, except that this  
Agreement shall not apply to Superintendents, Assistant  
Superintendents, Civil Engineers and their helpers,  
Timekeepers, Confidential Help and Office Help.  
E. This Agreement shall apply to what is generally  
known as the 46 Counties of Northern California, which  
means that portion of the State of California above the  
northerly boundary of Kern County, the northerly  
boundary of San Luis Obispo County, and the westerly  
boundaries of Inyo and Mono Counties, which includes  
the following counties:  
Alameda, Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Colusa,  
Contra Costa, Del Norte, E! Dorado, Fresno, Glenn,  
Humboldt, Kings, Lake, Lassen, Madera, Marin,  
Mariposa, Mendocino, Merced, Modoc, Monterey,  
Napa, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, San Benito,  
San Francisco, San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa Clara,  
Santa Cruz, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Solano, Sonoma,  
Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity, Tulare, Tuolumne,  
Yolo, and Yuba.  
### SECTION 2 - COVERAGE AND DESCRIPTION  
This Agreement shall cover all work of construction,  
alteration, repair or demolition of all tunnels, shafts,  
raises, subways, and all underground excavations includ-  
ing lining of same (open cut work shall be excluded only  
to the extent as outlined in Section 1), which falls with-  
in the rightful jurisdiction of the Laborers’ International  
Union of North America. Without limiting the scope of  
the work covered hereby it is agreed that miner's work  
shall include, but not be limited to the construction, lay-  
ing and maintenance of all railroad track in subways and  
tunnels; all mining work including the manning, running  
and/or handling of all boring equipment, laser beams,  
mole machines, shields and all drilling, regardless of  
type or method used for work covered by this  
Agreement, sharpening of bits, steel nippers, dumpmen  
{power or manual), dry housemen, chucktenders, air tug-  
gers, all conveyors, kemper pneumatic placer and all  
similar type equipment, all rock bolting and placing of  
rock restraining wire, setting all steel and wood sup-  
ports, jacking of pipe, drilling, loading and shooting,  
handling of all powder, including splitting and making  
primers; all timbering, retimbering, whether wood or  
steel; all mucking and dumping; cable tenders,  
swampers/brakemen on muck trains and timber trains;  
handling, installing and extending all water, air and vent  
lines, manning of cherry pickers while mucking; han-  
dling sponge pumps in wet headings; all caulking and  
guns, all concrete work, including shotcrete (or similar  
type), gunite and grouting, dumping of agitators; raising,  
setting and moving of forms; handling of rods and other  
materials for use in reinforced concrete; stripping all  
forms and all cleanup work; all concrete finishing; run-  
ning of grout pumps and screeding of concrete.  
This Agreement shall also cover miner's work on that  
part of the open cut excavation two diameters in front of  
the portal face, two diameters in back of the portal face,  
one diameter above the arch of the tunnel, and four  
diameters on each side of the centerline of the tunnel  
where, because of the nature of the conditions encoun-  
tered, it is necessary to employ special techniques used  
in tunnel work in order to secure the portal area prepara-  
tory to commencing underground operations. Concrete  
operations covered by this Agreement are those which  
start at the tunnel portals or at the collars of the shafts,  
and are carried out underground. (Diameter as used  
above is the specified excavated diameter of the tunnel.)  
Laborers’ work on the construction of structures such as,  
but not limited to, intake or outlet structures, power  
houses, and penstocks outside the portal face shall be  
outside work, though they may lie within the area  
defined above, and shall not be covered by the Tunnel  
Agreement.  
The words, "alteration, repair or demolition of all tun-  
nels" as used in the first paragraph shall apply only to  
5  
   
>  
miner's work on the support of, the lining of, or the  
structure of the tunnel itself, but not to Laborers' work on  
mechanical or electrical facilities, road paving (exclud-  
ing inverts), tile work, or other work within the tunnel  
not done with tunneling methods and equipment.  
Swampers/Brakemen on moving trains shail be employ-  
ees under this Agreement.  
All classifications listed in this Agreement which are not  
listed under this Section shall be included in the cover-  
age and description of work just as though incorporated  
in full in this Section.  
All work in connection with the operation of such  
equipment that is necessary to and incidental to carry out  
the work of the Laborer.  
### SECTION 3 - SUBCONTRACTORS  
The terms and conditions of this Agreement insofar as it  
affects the Employer and the individual employer shall  
apply equally to any subcontractor of any tier under the  
control of, or working under oral or written contract with  
such individual employer on any work covered by this  
Agreement to be performed at the job site or job yard,  
and said subcontractor with respect to such work shall be  
considered the same as an individual employer covered  
hereby.  
Subject to the provisions of this Section and any other  
Section of this Agreement applicable to subcontractors,  
if an individual employer shall subcontract work herein  
defined, such subcontract shall state that such subcon-  
tractor agrees to be bound by and comply with the terms  
and provisions of this Agreement.  
A subcontractor is defined as any person, firm, or corpo-  
ration who agrees under contract with the Employer, or  
any individual employer, or a sub-contractor of the  
Employer, or any individual employer to perform on the  
job site any part or portion of the construction work cov-  
ered by the prime contract, including the operation of  
equipment, performance of labor and installation of  
materials.  
The individual employer has the primary obligation for  
performance of all conditions of this Agreement. This  
obligation cannot be relieved, evaded or diminished by  
subcontracting. Should the individual employer elect to  
subcontract, the individual employer shall continue to  
have such primary obligation. Said primary obligation  
shall be deemed conclusive evidence of the Union's  
majority status for the purpose of establishing the obli-  
gation of the individual employer to bargain collectively  
pursuant to Section 8(A)(5) of the National Labor  
Relations Act as amended with the Union upon expira-  
tion of this Agreement but not for no other purpose,  
statute or law.  
An individual employer who provides in the subcontract  
that the subcontractor will pay the wages and benefits  
and will observe the hours and all other terms and con-  
ditions of this Agreement, shall not be liable for any  
delinquency by such subcontractor in the payment of  
any wages or fringe benefits provided herein, including  
payments required by Section 26 (Health and Welfare,  
Pension/Annuity, Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement  
and Training and Retraining Funds) except as follows:  
The individual employer will give written notice to the  
Union of any subcontract involving the performance of  
work covered by this Agreement within five (5) days of  
entering such subcontract, and shall specify the name  
and address of the subcontractor. Written notice at a pre-  
job conference shall be deemed written notice under this  
provision for those subcontractors listed at the pre-job  
only. Notification to the Union of any subcontractor not  
listed in writing at the pre-job must still be given in  
accordance with this paragraph.  
If thereafter such subcontractor shall become delinquent  
in the payment of any wages or benefits as above speci-  
fied, the Union shall promptly give written notice there-  
of to the individual employer and to the subcontractor  
specifying the nature and amount of such delinquency.  
If such notice is given, the individual employer shall pay  
and satisfy only the amount of any such delinquency by  
such subcontractor occurring within seventy-five (75)  
   
days prior to the receipt of said notice from the Union,  
and said individual employer may withhold the amount  
claimed to be delinquent out of the sums due and owing  
by the individual employer to such contractor.  
In the event the individual employer fails to give written  
notice of a subcontract as required herein, such individ-  
ual employer shall be liable for all delinquencies of the  
subcontractor on that job or project without limitation.  
The individual employer shall not be liable for any such  
delinquency if the Local Union where the delinquency  
occurs refers any employee to such subcontractor after  
giving such notice and during the continuance of such  
delinquency.  
The provisions of this Section 3 shall be applied only to  
the extent permitted by law and, notwithstanding any  
other provision of this Agreement, no aspect of the sub-  
contractors’ clause, including its enforcement, may be  
enforced by or subject to strike action.  
### SECTION 4A -— ADDITIONAL WORK OR  
### CLASSIFICATIONS  
This Agreement shall not prevent the Employer from  
negotiating or making agreements with the Union for  
any work or classification not covered by this  
Agreement. When such work is contemplated, the  
Collective Bargaining Representatives shall immediately  
enter into negotiations to establish proper wage scales  
for any such work.  
Whenever any work covered by this Agreement is to be  
eliminated or modified by the introduction of any new  
machine, mechanized process, new or different material,  
or new or different method or technology with respect to  
the performance of such work, persons employed under  
this Agreement and subject thereto, will be given prefer-  
ence for employment and will be assigned such work  
where it is not in conflict with International jurisdiction-  
al agreements with respect to such new machine, mech-  
anized process, new or different material, or new or dif-  
ferent method or technology; and the use of any such  
new machine, mechanized process, new or different  
material, or new or different method or technology shall  
be subject to and covered by this Agreement, regardless  
of the nature, size, or characteristics of such new  
machine, mechanized process, new or different material,  
or new or different method or technology.  
It is not the intent of the parties to provide work where  
no job exists.  
### SECTION 4B -— JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
There shall be no cessation or interference in any way  
with any work of the Employer or any individual  
employer by reason of Jurisdictional Disputes between  
the Union and any other Union affiliated with the AFL-  
10  
C1O or the International Brotherhood of Teamsters,  
Chauffeurs, Warehousemen, and Helpers of America  
with respect to jurisdiction over any of the work covered  
by this Agreement. Such disputes will be settled by the  
Unions themselves, or submitted to the International  
Presidents of the Unions involved in the dispute for  
determination. Until such determination is made and  
confirmed by the disputing Unions, the work shall pro-  
ceed as originally assigned the individual employer.  
Craft jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded by  
classifications or coverage descriptions appearing in this  
Agreement.  
Upon affiliation of the Employer with the plan for the  
settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the Construction  
Industry, or a successor voluntary program to which the  
Union is also affiliated, the Employer, the individual  
employers, and the Union shall be bound by the proce-  
dures for settlement of jurisdictional disputes as adopted  
under such a program. The individual employer shall be  
bound by an agreement between the General Presidents.  
### SECTION 5 —- CONFLICTING CONTRACTS  
No oral or written agreement which conflicts or is incon-  
sistent with this Agreement, or any supplemental agrec-  
ments thereto, shall hereafter be entered into by and  
between Employer, or an individual employer, and any  
individual employee performing work covered by this  
Agreement.  
Any practice of the Employer or individual employer  
contrary to this Agreement shall forthwith terminate.  
Any such future practice shall not be binding on the  
Union or affect the interpretation of this Agreement  
unless specifically authorized by the Union in writing.  
### SECTION 6 - BARGAINING REPRESENTATIVES  
A. Union's Recognition of Collective Bargaining  
Representative of Employer.  
The Union hereby recognizes and acknowledges that the  
Collective Bargaining Representative of Employer  
includes in its membership a majority of the individual  
employers in the General Building and Tunnel Industry  
and said employers are performing the greater percent-  
age of work therein.  
By reason of such facts the Union hereby recognizes that  
the Collective Bargaining Representative of the  
Employer, as herein above referred to, is the Collective  
Bargaining Representative for all persons, firms or cor-  
porations who are now or hereafter may become mem-  
bers of any employer organization that is now or here-  
after may become signatory hereto and of any employer  
who is not a member of such employer organization and  
who is or may hereafter become signatory hereto with  
respect to Tunnel] Construction in the territory subject to  
this Agreement.  
12  
### Y  
In the event the Union (District Council) enters into any  
other agreement with other employers or employer asso-  
ciations concerning the type of work covered hereby in  
the area which shall have terms more favorable to such  
employers or employer associations and the members  
thereof than this Agreement, then such more favorable  
provisions shall become a part of and apply to this  
Agreement only in the geographical area where such  
other Agreement is in effect.  
B. Employers’ Recognition of Union as Collective  
Bargaining Representative of Employees.  
The Employer and the Individual Employer covered  
hereby recognize and acknowledge the Northern  
California District Council of Laborers of the Laborers’  
Internationa) Union of North America, AFL-CIO, as the  
Collective Bargaining Representative of the employees  
in the area aforementioned covering the jurisdiction of  
the Union and its affiliated local unions.  
C. Access to Project.  
A Union Representative shall have access to the project  
during working hours for the purpose of checking the  
manner in which the terms of this Agreement are being  
complied with.  
13  
### - SECTION 7 - EMPLOYMENT AND  
### DISCHARGE  
A. Union Security  
(1) Every person performing work covered by this  
Agreement who is a member of the Union and in the  
employment of an individual employer on work covered  
by this Agreement on the effective date of this  
Subsection 7A shall, as a condition of employment or  
continued employment, remain a member in good stand-  
ing of the Union in the appropriate Local Union of the  
Union. Every other person covered by this Agreement  
shall be required as a condition of employment to apply  
for and become a member of and to maintain member-  
ship in good standing in the Union in the appropriate  
Local Union of the Union which has territorial jurisdic-  
tion of the area which such person is performing work  
on or after the expiration of eight (8) days of employ-  
ment on such work following the beginning of such  
employment or the effective date of this revised  
Subsection 7A, whichever is later. Membership in any  
such Local Union shal! be available to any such person  
on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to  
other members.  
If Federal law is hereafter amended to permit a lesser  
requirement for union membership or union member-  
ship as a condition of employment than provided in this  
Subsection, the Collective Bargaining Representative of  
14  
   
the Employer and the Union will promptly enter into  
negotiations with regard to such subject.  
(2) The individual employer shall be required to dis-  
charge any employee pursuant to this Subsection 7A  
only when a written notice from the Union, or Local  
Union, with an tmmediate copy of such notice to the  
Union, of such employee's non-compliance, with this  
Subsection, stating all pertinent facts showing such non-  
compliance shall have been served upon such individual  
employer and a reasonable time (not to exceed 48 hours)  
has been allowed for compliance therewith.  
B. Employment.  
(1) The Union or Local Union shall maintain open and  
non-discriminatory hiring halls for the use of workers  
desiring employment on work covered by this  
Agreement and such workers shall be entitled to use  
such hiring halls. It is mutually agreed by the Employer  
and the Union to fully comply with all of the provisions  
of Title 7 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Presidential  
Executive Order No. 11246, the Americans with  
Disabilities Act of 1990, and California Fair  
Employment Practices Section, to the end that no person  
shall, on the grounds of sex, race, color, disabiltty, or  
national origin, be excluded from participation in, be  
denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to dis-  
crimination by not having full access to the contents of  
Section 7 of this Agreement. (A list of local unions,  
15  
their telephone numbers and daily dispatching hours is  
attached hereto as Schedule "A" for convenience only.)  
The Union shall retain full power to change the location  
of any hiring hall listed herein, to change the daily dis-  
patching hours listed herein or to cause the merger,  
amalgamation or consolidation of any two or more hir-  
ing halls listed herein. The Union shall give notice in  
writing to the Employer whenever any such change,  
merger, amalgamation or consolidation becomes effec-  
tive. If the Employer desires a location of a hiring hall  
or daily dispatching hours other than as specified herein,  
notice of such desire shall be given to the Union in writ-  
ing and the Collective Bargaining Representatives shall  
promptly enter into negotiations with regard to such subject.  
(2) Each person desiring employment shall register  
through such hiring hall by appearing personally and by  
indicating his name, address, telephone number, Social  
Security Account Number, qualifications and employ-  
ment desired. Each such person shall be listed numeri-  
cally in the order in which he registers.  
In the territorial jurisdiction of the following Locals  
only, 73 Stockton, 139 Santa Rosa, 185 Sacramento, 270  
San Jose, 291 (Napa/Lake Counties only), 294 Fresno,  
297 Salinas, 324 Martinez, 326 Solano, and [130  
Modesto, a person may register by phone if his residence  
is more than [0 miles from the nearest hiring hall main-  
tained by said Local.  
16  
Distance for interpreting this Subsection shall be deter-  
mined by using the nearest Class "A" road or highway.  
(3) No person shall be entitled to have his name placed  
on any employment list which is applicable to a particu-  
lar type or classification of work unless he has been  
employed in such type or classification of work for six  
(6) months consecutively or accumulatively within a  
period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date  
of his registration.  
(4) The individual employer shall contact the appro-  
priate hiring hall of the Local Union having work and  
area jurisdiction for all workers as he or it may from  
time to time need, and the Local Union shall furnish to  
the individual employer the required number of qualified  
and competent workers of the classifications needed by  
the individual employer in accordance with the provi-  
sions of this Subsection 7B, if such workers are available.  
(5) When requesting workers, the individual employer  
shall submit job orders, indicating the number of persons  
desired, qualifications of each person desired, the loca-  
tion of the job, the reporting date and time and the rep-  
resentative of the individual employer to be contacted on  
the job site.  
(6) The appropriate hiring hal} of the Local Union of  
the Union having work and area jurisdiction, will furnish  
in accordance with the request of the individual employ-  
17  
   
er such qualified and competent workers of the classifi-  
cations needed from among those entered on said lists to  
the individual employer by use of a written referral in  
the following order of preference.  
Persons shall be referred in the order in which they are  
registered, if their registration indicates that they are  
qualified for and desirous of taking such referral unless  
they are not available for referral, subject to the follow-  
ing conditions: First,  
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this  
Agreement, the individual employer may request a per-  
son. by name, out of order, and such person must be dis-  
patched if such person is registered on the out-of-work  
list and if such person was employed previously by such  
individual employer or member of a joint venture with-  
in three years prior to such request within the territorial  
Jurisdiction of the appropriate Local Union of the Union.  
(b) In addition to requests permitted by the provision  
of Subsection 6(a), the individual employer may request  
any person registered on the out-of-work list out of order  
for any reason; provided, however, that at no time shall  
any job contain more than 50% of persons requested  
under Subsection 6(b).  
(c) Any Local Union, may at its option, permit a per-  
centage of individual requests greater than 50% on any  
job. Such permission shall not be deemed a violation of  
this Agreement.  
18  
(d) No person shall be dispatched pursuant to the pro-  
visions of Subsection 6(a), 6(b}, or 6(c) of this Section  
unless the individual employer request is in writing,  
dated, is signed by an appropriate management repre-  
sentative, specifies whether the person is a rehire and  
names the job for which rehire is requested.  
It will not be a violation of this Agreement for an owner  
(1 person) to perform Tunnel Laborers work when need-  
ed provided that said owner is performing work with at  
least one (1) additional Tunnel Laborer on the job site.  
Second, persons who within five (5) years immediately  
preceding the job order performed work covered under  
this Agreement in the geographical area covered by this  
Agreement in the order in which they registered.  
Third, persons who are registered in the order in whitch  
they registered by qualification.  
(7) Available for employment shall mean: All persons  
eligible for referral shall be present at the hiring hall or  
present at their residence phone if they live at a location  
specified in Subsection 7B(1), paragraph 2, during dis-  
patching hours, unless excused for the following reasons.  
(a) When a death or imminent death occurs in the  
immediate family, from the date of death and not  
exceeding one week after the date of burial, however,  
they shall produce bona fide proof of such death or  
imminent death from hospital or family doctor.  
19  
   
(b) Persons on jury duty, providing they produce bona  
fide proof they are serving on a jury.  
(c) Persons temporarily serving in the U.S. Military  
Reserve, providing they show bona fide proof of such  
service.  
(d) Attendance at Workers' Compensation Hearing or  
any administrative or court appearance.  
(8) When ordering workers, the individual employer  
will give notice to the appropnate hiring hall of the  
Local Union, not later than 2:30 p.m., of the day prior  
(Monday through Friday) or, in any event, not less than  
seventeen and one-half (17-1/2) hours before the  
required reporting time and in the event that, forty-eight  
(48) hours after such notice (Saturdays, Sundays and  
recognized holidays excluded), the Local Union shall  
not furnish such workmen, the individual employer may  
procure workers from any other source or sources. If  
workers are so employed the individual employer shall  
promptly report to the appropriate hiring hall of the  
Local Union, in writing, or by phone with written con-  
firmation within forty-eight (48) hours the name,  
address and Social Security Account Number of the  
employee procured from such other source and the date  
of employment and the location of the job on which he  
is employed. Workers who report on the first day are to  
be paid from the time they report to the Individual  
Employer's designated location.  
20  
(9) Dispatching hours shall be as specified in  
Subdivision (1) of this Subsection 7B or as specified in  
the notice or notices submitted pursuant to Subdivision  
(1) of this Subsection 7B. In emergency cases, individu-  
als may be dispatched other than at such dispatching  
hours.  
(10) Each person, upon being referred shall receive a  
written referral to be transmitted to the employer repre-  
sentative at the job site indicating the name, address,  
Social Security Account Number, type of job, date of  
proposed employment and date of referral.  
(11) To tnsure the maintenance of a current registra-  
tion list, all persons who do not re-register or answer roll  
call, as the case may be, on each regularly scheduled roll  
call day (which shall not be more often than once a  
week) shall be removed from the registration ttst unless  
excused in accordance with Subsection 7B(7). Any per-  
son may re-register by phone and must be personally  
present at the phone during dispatch hours. If a referral  
is made by phone, a written dispatch slip must be sent to  
the Individual Employer and workman. Any person who  
is permitted to register by phone under this Subsection  
7B must appear personally at the appropriate hiring hall  
on roll cail day. If such persons re-register or answer roll  
call pursuant to the provisions of this Section, they shall  
maintain their previous position on such list, subject to  
the provisions of this Subsection 7B. Provided, howev-  
er, that if any person who is eliminated from the regis-  
21  
tration list in accordance with the provisions of  
Subsection 12 of Section 7B following, such person  
shall not be entitled to the position he held prior to his  
elimination in the event he re-registers or answers roll  
call, as the case may be.  
(12) Persons shall be eliminated from the registration  
list for the following reasons:  
(a) Dispatched to a job - except that any person who is  
rejected by the individual employer or who fails to com-  
plete two (2) full day's work shall retain his position on  
said list; provided, no person who is rejected by the indi-  
vidual employer shall be referred to such individual  
employer with respect to the same request. pursuant to  
which he was initially referred.  
(b) Failing to accept suitable employment one time  
during the current week at the time of dispatch.  
Employment which cannot be reached by an individual  
because of jack of transportation shall not be deemed  
suitable as to him.  
(c) Unavailable for employment.  
(d) Any person dispatched to a job who fails to report  
for work.  
(13) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this  
Subsection 7B, the individual employer may specifical-  
ly request that a particular named workman who is reg-  
22  
istered in a hiring hall of a local Union be furnished to  
him to perform work as:  
Shifter  
Shaft Work and Raise  
Shaft Work and Raise-Shifters  
Diamond Driller  
Miner-Tunnel, including top and bottom man of shaft  
and raise work  
Timberman, Retimberman - Wood or Steel  
Blaster, Driller, Powderman - in Heading  
Cherry Pickerman - where car ts lifted  
Primerhouseman  
Chucktender and Cabletender  
Nozzlemen  
Bull Gang Foreman  
Miner Concrete Finisher  
and the Local Union will furnish such workman to the  
individual employer in accordance with such request,  
without regard to the order of registration of the work-  
man, provided that such person is registered on the  
employment list of the appropriate Local Union of the  
Union and has qualified himself for work in any such  
classification for which he may be called under this  
Subsection 7B(13).  
(14) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the  
Individual Employer shall have complete freedom of  
selectivity in hiring and the Individual Employer retains  
23  
   
the right to reject any job applicant referred by the Union  
for just cause including but not limited to persons unable  
to produce legal residence documentation as required  
under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.  
In the event an Individual Employer receives two (2)  
referrals from the Local Union not meeting the skill  
requirements of the hiring request, the Individual  
Employer shall be free to secure such skilled person  
from any available source subject to Section 7A of this  
Agreement.  
(15) The Local Unions and the Union shall post in  
places where notices to applicants for employment with  
the individual employers are customarily posted, all pro-  
visions relating to the functioning of the hiring arrange-  
ments, including the provisions set forth in this Section,  
and each individual employer shall similarly post in  
places where notices to employees and applicants for  
employment are customarily posted, a notice of the hir-  
ing arrangements set forth in this Section.  
(16) Selection of applicants for referral to jobs pur-  
suant to this Agreement shall be on a non-discriminato-  
ry basis and shall not be based on, or in any way affect-  
ed by, union membership, by-laws, rules, regulations,  
constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obliga-  
tion of union membership, policies or requirements, pro-  
vided that the provisions hereof shall not modify or qual-  
ify the requirements of Subsection A of this Section 7.  
24  
Vy  
(17) Any person aggrieved by the operation of the hir-  
ing hall shall submit his grievance to the permanent hir-  
ing hall neutral arbitrator provided that such submission  
is made in writing stating the reasons for the grievance,  
within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of the  
grievance. The Arbitrator shall have full power to adjust  
the grievance, and his decision thereon shall be final and  
binding upon the person submitting the grievance and all  
parties hereto. Forms for the submission of any griev-  
ance shall be available at all times in the office of the  
Union and each Local Union.  
(18) The permanent hiring hall neutral arbitrator shall  
be Gerald McKay and notices required by this Section  
shall be mailed or delivered to P.O. Box 406,  
Burlingame, California 94011-0406. The date of post-  
mark and/or date of delivery of the grievance, whichev-  
er is later, shall toll the running of the ten day period.  
The costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by the  
Employer and Union regardless of who the Local Union  
or individual employer is.  
C. Discharge.  
No employee shal! be discharged or discriminated  
against for activity in or representation of the Union or  
any Local Union. The Local Union shall be the sole  
judge of the qualifications of its members.  
The individual employer shall be the sole judge of the  
25  
   
qualifications of all of his employees, and may on such  
grounds discharge any of them.  
No employee shall be discharged without just cause. In  
the event of discharge without just cause, the employee  
shall, if he so desires, be reinstated with payment for  
time lost. In the event of a dispute, the existence of "just  
cause” shall be determined under the grievance proce-  
dure provided for in Section 22 hereof.  
In the event of reinstatement, the amount of back pay  
awarded under Section 22 hereof may not exceed 90  
days unless the grievant was employed by the individual  
employer who discharged him for more than 1500 hours  
in the two years preceding the date of discharge.  
D. The individual employer may notify the Local  
Union hiring hall of all employees who have quit,  
or have been terminated or recalled during the week.  
Such notification shall be on a written form which will  
include the following information:  
Name of Employer Company  
Name of Employee  
Date of Termination  
Date of Recall  
Reason for Termination  
E. No employee may be transferred from an individ-  
ual employer's payroll to another individual  
employer's payroll except in accordance with Subsection  
26  
   
7B except any transfer to and/or from a joint venture of  
which the individual employer is a partner.  
### SECTION 8 - SHOW-UP TIME  
When an employee reports for work and there is no work  
provided by the individual employer, he shall be paid  
four (4) hours show-up time at the applicable rate plus  
subsistence where applicable, provided, however, no  
show-up time will be payable to any person who reports  
for work without the necessary and legally required doc-  
umentation to establish work right status under applica-  
ble Immigration and Naturalization Laws.  
If work is to be suspended for any reason, the employee  
shall be notified at least two (2) hours (except four {4}  
hours on remote projects by mutual agreement) before  
being required to report for work. The employee shall  
keep the individual employer at all times advised of his  
correct address and if he has a telephone, his telephone  
number. If an employee does not keep the individual  
employer so informed, the individual employer shall be  
relieved of the duty of giving such notice and further, he  
shall not have to pay such employee show-up time.  
Radio and/or TV notice is acceptable on remote projects  
as a means of notification providing the Union ts notifted  
in writing at the commencement of the job.  
2  
### SECTION 9 - LUNCH TIME  
An employee will be given a full 30 minutes and  
relieved of all duties to eat his lunch. No employee shall  
be required to work more than four and one-half (4-1/2)  
hours without time off for a meal period which shall be  
one-half (1/2) hour. In the event the employer elects to  
work the employee and/or employees during the regu-  
larly scheduled meal period in violation of this Section,  
he shall pay the employee at time and one-half the regu-  
lar wage rate from the fourth and one-half (4-1/2) hour  
for the remainder of the shift. For purpose of clarifica-  
tion of this Section, it is the intent that the employee will  
have started and completed his lunch between the third  
(3rd) and the fourth and one-half (4-1/2) hour.  
Any employee required to work more than two (2) hours  
overtime at the end of a shift shall be permitted a one-  
half (1/2) hour meal period for which he shall receive  
regular overtime pay. No work shall be performed by  
him during such meal period. (Meal periods may be  
staggered from the 10th to 11th hour on single shift work  
and from the 9th to 10th hour on shift work.)  
### SECTION 10 - RECORDS  
A. Each individual employer shall provide a proper  
means for registering the reporting, quitting time, and as  
supplied by the employee, the address and telephone  
28  
number of all employees covered by this Agreement. In  
the event of a dispute such records shall be accessible to  
the business representative of the Union or Local Union  
during working hours.  
B. Each individual employer, upon request of any  
Trust Fund specified in this Agreement, shall permit a  
Trust Fund Auditor to review any and all records rele-  
vant to the enforcement of the provisions of this  
Agreement pertaining to the Trust Funds. Such review  
shall be permitted not less than two (2) working days  
after demand.  
C. Any Individual Employer who is found to be delin-  
quent as a result of an audit will pay and satisfy such  
delinquency with accrued interest and, in addition, pay  
liquidated damages.  
D. All delinquent contributions shall bear simple  
interest at a rate of one and one half percent (1.5%) per  
month until receipt of payment.  
E. Subject to accounting verification, liquidated dam-  
ages shall be assessed on delinquent contributions at a  
flat rate of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per month  
to reflect the internal administrative costs incurred by  
the trust administrators in monitoring and tracking such  
jate contributions.  
F. The cost of any audit shall be borne by the  
Individual Employer if the delinquency disclosed by the  
29  
audit is in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)  
and is not the result of a clerical error.  
G. When economic conditions warrant, the Trustees of  
the Trust Funds specified in this Agreement are author-  
ized to amend the liquidated damages and interest provi-  
sions of this Agreement. Any adjustments implemented  
by the Trustees shall be reflective of true increases in the  
administrative and legal costs associated with the recov-  
ery of delinquent Trust Fund contributions.  
### SECTION 11 - WAGES APPLICABLE TO  
### CLASSIFICATIONS  
Wage rates shall be recognized as applying to classifica-  
tions rather than to workers and any worker performing  
work shall be paid at the rate which the classification of  
his work calls for, except when it is necessary to tem-  
porarily transfer workers from one classification to  
another in which event such worker shall be paid on the  
basis of the highest rate and the duration of payment at  
the highest rate shall be reckoned by the day and the half  
day.  
When workers are requested for one classification and  
this work is no longer available at the rate and type of  
work they were requested for, then the workers have the  
right to accept or reject the employment offered. If he so  
desires, he shall be given a written notice of reduction in  
force, stating that the classification that he was original-  
30  
   
   
ly hired for is no longer available; or he may have the  
choice of a lesser rate of pay.  
### SECTION 11A - PAYMENT OF WAGES  
Each employee shall be paid wages in full each week  
before or at quitting time on the contractor's regular pay  
day, which shall be Monday through Thursday, unless  
specific arrangements to the contrary are made in writ-  
ing with the appropriate Local Union. Employees who  
are terminated shall be paid in full at the time of termi-  
nation on the job site. In the event the employee is not  
paid in full after being terminated, he shall be paid eight  
(8) hours for each scheduled workday for all waiting  
time at his appropriate wage rate, except that tn the event  
any employee is terminated on swing or graveyard shift  
and is required to return on the immediately following  
scheduled day shift to obtain his check, he shall receive  
four (4) hours waiting time. In the event the employee  
quits, he shall be paid in full within seventy-two (72)  
hours or on the regularly scheduled pay day, whichever  
comes first. In the event he is not paid within seventy-  
two (72) hours, he shall be paid eight (8) hours per  
scheduled workday for all waiting time, at his appropri-  
ate wage rate. In the event the contractor fails to comply  
with this clause, the matter shall be settled in accordance  
with the provisions of Section 22 of this Agreement.  
Each employee shall be given a statement with the  
31  
employer's name and address itemizing the employee's  
gross amount earned, hours worked, social security tax,  
withholding tax and all other deductions, also a state-  
ment of hours applicable to Health & Welfare,  
Pension/Annuity, Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement,  
Training and Retraining Plans.  
### SECTION 12 - CONTRACTING ~ PIECE WORK  
No work shail be let or paid for by piece work contract,  
or. lump sum, direct with employees covered by this  
Agreement,  
### SECTION 14 — NO CESSATION OF WORK  
It is mutually agreed and understood that during the peri-  
od when this Agreement is in force and effect, the Union  
or any Local Union will not authorize any strike, slow-  
down, or stoppage of work in any dispute, complaint, or  
grievance arising under the terms and conditions of this  
Agreement, except such disputes, complaints, or griev-  
ances as arise out of the failure or refusal of any individ-  
ual employer to comply with the provisions of the hiring  
clause, Section 7A or B, or as permitted under Section  
26B hereof or whenever an individual employer pays  
improperly with checks which do not clear for collec-  
tion. As to any individual employer who shall fail or  
refuse to comply with the provisions of those sections,  
so long as such failure or refusal continues, it shall not  
32  
be a violation of this Agreement if the Union or any  
Local Union withdraws its members who are subject  
hereto from the performance of any work for such indi-  
vidual employer and such withdrawal for such period  
shall not be a strike or work stoppage within the terms of  
this Agreement. In the event that any employees of any  
individual employer should be withdrawn by reason of  
any dispute, complaint, or grievance arising out of the  
violation of any similar hiring clause in any agreement  
between Employer and any other Union, then the Union  
or any Local Union may respect such withdrawal and for  
the period thereof may refuse to perform any work for  
such individual employer, and such refusal for such peri-  
od shall not be a violation of this Agreement. Any  
employees so withdrawn or refusing to perform any  
work as herein provided shall not lose their status as  
employees, but no such employee shall be entitled to  
claim or receive any wages or other compensation for  
any period during which he has been so withdrawn or  
refused to perform any work.  
### SECTION 15 — ELIMINATION OF  
### RESTRICTIONS  
A. No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted  
that limit production or increase the time required to  
do any work. There shall be no limitation or restriction  
of the use of machinery, tools or other labor-saving  
devices.  
33  
The Union and Employer recognize that Drug/Alcoho!  
abuse by employees shall not be tolerated for safety rea-  
sons.  
The Union agrees to cooperate with Employer and  
Individual Employer in establishing drug and alcohol  
abuse policies to the extent legally possible.  
Management Rights Regarding Substance Abuse:  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement,  
the Employer expressly reserves the right, in its discre-  
tion, to undertake the following measures:  
(a) In the sole discretion of the employer, requiring  
covered employees to submit to physical examination by  
competent medical personnel to determine whether there  
is a probability that the employee is suffering from any  
physical impairment which might cause the employee to  
be a safety hazard to himself or others, or which might  
cause the employee to be unable to perform assigned  
tasks within the coverage of this agreement in a prompt  
and competent manner. Such tests may include, in the  
discretion of the employer, such tests of the employee's  
bodily fluids as the employer may reasonably believe  
will elicit evidence of the employee's use of substances  
which are reasonably likely to alter or impair the  
employee's ability to perform his duties in a prompt,  
competent and safe manner.  
(b) Implementation of rules regarding the discipline  
34  
  
and/or discharge of any employees that the employer  
determines, as a result of the tests described in subpara-  
graph (a), are reasonably likely to become voluntarily  
impaired or disabled from the safe performance of their  
work tasks as a result of the ingestion of alcohol or per-  
formance-impairing drugs.  
(c) An Individual Employer may initiate unannounced  
random testing, a selection process where affected  
Employees are selected for testing and each Employee  
has an equal chance of being selected for testing. If an  
Individual Employer initiates such testing, all  
Employees shall be subjected to such testing. The  
Employee may establish two random testing pools, one  
for DOT regulated Employees and one for all others. An  
Individual Employer who initiates random testing shall  
specifically state in its notice to Employees that  
Employees will be subject to random testing. The  
Individual Employer shall give thirty (30) days notice to  
the Union and Employees prior to implementing a ran-  
dom drug testing program.  
(d) Implementation of a voluntary employee assis-  
tance program, to provide counseling, therapy and mon-  
itoring of those employees who request employer assis-  
tance in controlling and overcoming problems related to  
the use of drugs and alcohol.  
Disputes arising from the implementation of the provi-  
sions of this paragraph shall be subject to the grievance  
procedures set forth in Section 9 of this Agreement.  
35  
### B. SAFETY  
(1) The Union shall cooperate with the individual]  
employer and with each employee in carrying out all  
pertinent rules and regulations dealing with health, safe-  
ty and welfare of employees promulgated by the  
Department of Industrial Relations of the State of  
California. All employees shall perform their duties in  
each operation in such manner as to promote safe and  
efficient operations of each particular duty and of any  
job as a whole.  
(2) All State and/or Federal and/or Local Safety Laws,  
Standards, Rules and Regulations shal} be applicable to  
all work covered by this Agreement. The individual  
employer is solely responsible for implementing and  
maintaining such Laws, Standards, Rules and  
Regulations. Neither the Union nor any Local Union is  
responsible for implementing or maintaining such Laws,  
Standards, Rules or Regulations.  
(3) Adequate first-aid equipment shall be maintained  
and provisions shall be made for the safety of employees  
covered by this Agreement on each job by each individ-  
ual employer. Each individual employer shall arrange  
for adequate and prompt medical attention in case of  
injury. This may be accomplished by: (1) On-the-job  
facilities or proper equipment for prompt transportation  
of the injured person to a physician, or (2) A communi-  
cation system for contacting a doctor and/or ambulance  
36  
yr  
or a combination of these that will avoid unnecessary  
delay in treatment. Each individual employer must post  
the name and address of its doctor and of the Workers’  
Compensation insurance carrier on the job site.  
(4) Manhaul trucks regularly used for personnel trans-  
port but not designed for this purpose, shall be provided  
with safe seating and side and end protection to prevent  
falls. Some convenient means of mounting and dis-  
mounting the truck shall be provided. Adequate protec-  
tion shall be provided during inclement weather. A bell  
or other means of communication with the driver shall  
be installed.  
(5) No employee shall be discharged for refusing to  
work under conditions injurious to his health or safety as  
determined under any rules or regulation of the United  
States or State of California or any political subdivision.  
Such determination shall be made by a responsible agent  
of the State of California or OSHA or any of its political  
subdivisions, or by a safety inspector from the applica-  
ble insurance carrier.  
(6) In the event the individual employer requests a  
variance from OSHA or a Tunnel Safety Order, other  
than Electrical and/or Diesel, such requests will be  
mailed to the Union fifteen (15) days before such writ-  
ten request is mailed to the Division of Industrial Safety.  
(7) No man working under this Agreement shall be  
required to return to the heading or blasting area in less  
37  
than ten (10) minutes after firing a full round. (A longer  
waiting period may be required to allow time for clear-  
ing of the air by the ventilation system in accordance  
with the California or OSHA State Tunnel Safety  
Orders.) Whenever necessary, a secondary fresh air ven-  
tilation system consisting of Scavenger Fans, Venturi  
Airmovers, or similar equipment shall be installed to  
insure adequate ventilation at the heading.  
(8) Notwithstanding, the language in this Section, it is  
understood and agreed that this Section shall not change  
the Safety Orders as contatned in the Compressed Air  
Agreement attached hereto.  
(9) Employees who as a direct result of an on-the-job  
industrial injury are unable to complete a full day's work  
shall nevertheless be paid for the full day on which such  
injury occurred; provided, however, that said injury  
requires the attention of a licensed physician.  
(10) The Local Union with area jurisdiction shall be  
notified within one day (twenty-four hours) of any  
industrial injury which results in death or requires hos-  
pitalization.  
### SECTION 16 - CHANGE HOUSE  
The individual employer shall establish and maintain a  
change house within a reasonable distance of each por-  
tal, adit or shaft which shall include showers, toilet facil-  
38  
q  
me  
ities, lockers and heating and drying facilities in accor-  
dance with the amount of men in each crew. Each  
change house shal} be so constructed to provide that all  
clothing will dry between shifts.  
This shall not apply to short dry such as under  
highways or embankments. The individual  
employer will reimburse employees for clothing, per-  
sonal effects or tools lost by fire in an amount up to  
$150.00 in the event of the destruction of the change  
house by fire.  
An employee on the day shift shall be designated as a  
change house attendant whose primary duties shall be to  
maintain sanitary conditions and see that adequate heat  
and ventilation is provided to properly dry clothes  
between shifts. The employer may, if time permits,  
assign this employee to other duties outside the tunnel  
requiring comparable skills and ability, providing such  
work is in the vicinity of the change house.  
If any additional cleaning js required, an employee on  
either the second or third shift shall be detailed to clean  
the change house.  
### SECTION 17 - PROTECTIVE CLOTHING  
The individual employer shaJ) furnish the necessary gog-  
gles, hard hats, shock proof gloves and other protective  
clothing. Workers who work in rain, snow and sleet, or  
under wet conditions shal) be furnished with water proof  
39  
   
clothing. Workers working in gunite or handling con-  
crete and/or cement shall be furnished rubber boots and  
gloves. Workers working in mud or water shall be fur-  
nished boots. Such equipment shal! be furnished free of  
charge and returned by the employee in the same condi-  
tion as received subject to reasonable wear and tear.  
Such equipment shall be sanitized before re-issue.  
### SECTION 18(1) - HOURS, OVERTIME RATES,  
### AND WORKING CONDITIONS  
_ A. Eight (8) hours of actual work between 8:00 a.m.  
and 5:00 p.m., excluding meal hour, shall constitute a  
regular day's work at straight time rates, except on shift  
work as hereinafter provided.  
If all crafts on the project are employed on the basis of  
four (4) ten-hour days, the laborers shall work on the  
same basis. It is understood that in this event those por-  
tions of this Agreement that pertain to work day, work  
week, lunch periods, overtime, etc. will be modified to  
adjust to the four (4) ten-hour day week.  
B. The regular work week shall be Monday, 8:00 a.m.,  
through Friday, 5:00 p.m., at straight time.  
C. Shift Work. When two (2) or more shifts are  
employed for five (5) or more consecutive days, seven  
and one-half (7-1/2) hours of actual work shall constitute  
a day's work for which eight (8) times the straight time  
40  
hourly rate shall be paid. This includes heading crews -  
concrete crews, bull gang and dump workers, retimber-  
men or any other crew doing work which comes within  
the jurisdiction of the Union.  
When one heading is working on a shift basis then the  
other heading shall be considered as working under the  
provisions of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours’ work for  
eight (8) hours’ pay.  
When only a day shift is employed, workers will work  
eight (8) hours for eight (8) hours’ pay.  
Shifts must run for five (5) consecutive days or more  
before the job is to be considered as running on shift  
work basis. There shall be no split shifts. The hours of  
work shall be reckoned by the day and the half-day,  
regardless of the reason for the suspension or interrup-  
tion of work.  
All employees working in the tunnel, subway, shaft,  
raise, etc., and the primer housemen, dump men, and  
members of the Bull Gang working on the construction,  
repair and maintenance of the track to the dump, and all  
work outside the tunnel, subway, shaft, raise, etc., of  
loading and unloading stee}, timber, rails, or other mate-  
rial to be used inside the tunnel, subway, shaft, raise,  
etc., or construction, repair or demolition of said tunnel,  
subway, shaft, raise, etc., shall come under the Tunnel]  
Agreement and shall work under the tunnel shift condi-  
tions (either single or multiple), but nothing herein pro-  
41  
vided shall preclude the concurrent operation of a sepa-  
rate day shift under separate supervision On work per-  
formed outside the tunnel pursuant to the Laborers’  
Master Agreement.  
The Employer will at least one (1)  
swamper/brakeman to each two (2) loaded, moving  
muck trains, who may be assigned to other duties when  
muck trains are not in operation.  
Shifter: The contractor who employs workers in a tun-  
nel shall employ a shifter, covered by this Agreement,  
who shall have supervision over all employees, exclud-  
ing Bull Gang, pursuant to the Tunnel Master  
Agreement. When more than five (5) workers are  
employed in the above crews, these shifters shall not  
perform any work, except in an on-the-job emergency,  
provided, however, in the event a regular member of this  
crew is absent, the shifter may perform such regular  
employee's duties, providing in such case that prior to  
performing such duties, the Union has been requested to  
dispatch a replacement.  
Where two (2) thru five (3) miners, chucktenders, or a  
combination of both, are employed at the heading, a  
shifter shall be employed and he may work with the  
tools of the trade.  
Supervisory personnel excluded from this Agreement  
shali not perform any work in any classification covered  
by this Agreement.  
42  
Shifts shall run consecutively with not more than one  
hour break between shifts.  
D. The starting time for shifts, whether on single shifts  
or on shift work, may be changed by mutual consent of  
Unions and Employers when it is considered desirable to  
start work earlier than the time or times previously  
established or established by this Agreement.  
E. Day shift to start at either 7:00 or 8:00 a.m.; swing  
shift to start at either 3:00 or 4:00 p.m.; graveyard shift  
to start at either 11:00 p.m. or 12:00 midnight.  
The Friday graveyard shift, though coming off work  
Saturday moming is to be considered working Friday.  
The work performed after 8:00 a.m. Saturday morning  
shall be deemed Saturday work.  
The Saturday graveyard shift, though coming off work  
Sunday morning is to be considered working Saturday.  
Work performed after 8:00 a.m. Sunday morning shall  
be deemed Sunday work.  
The Sunday graveyard shift, though coming off work  
Monday morning is to be considered working Sunday,  
with the exception that a graveyard shift employee who  
has worked seven and one-half (7-1/2) or more hours  
prior to the scheduled starting time of the Monday day  
shift and continues to work after such starting time shall  
continue to receive the double time wage rate.  
43  
F, Maintenance Work. Workers employed on Saturday  
to perform maintenance or repair work (that is, work  
other than actual construction) shail be paid at time and  
one-half the regular straight time rate. Workers  
employed on Sundays or Holidays on maintenance or  
repair work shall be paid at double the regular straight  
time rate.  
G. Overtime Rates.  
(1) In the counties of San Francisco, Contra Costa and  
Alameda, the overtime rates shall be as follows on pro-  
duction work:  
(a) The first four hours after a single shift ends,  
Monday through Friday, shall be paid at a time and one-  
half the regular straight time hourly rate. Double the  
regular straight time hourly rate shall be paid for all time  
worked before a single shift begins and in excess of the  
first four (4) hours above described after a single shift  
ends.  
(b) On two or three shift operations, the first two (2)  
hours in excess of the seven and one-half (7-1/2) hour  
shift, above mentioned, shall be at time and one-half the  
regular straight time hourly rate. All additional overtime  
work shall be at double the regular straight time hourly  
rate.  
(c) All work performed on Saturdays, Sundays and  
44  
Holidays shall be paid for at double the regular straight  
time hourly rate, except maintenance work as provided  
above. Workers working a complete shift of shift work  
on Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays shall be paid eight  
(8) hours’ pay at the appropriate overtime rate for seven  
and one-half (7-{/2) hours' work.  
(2) In the remaining 43 counties covered by this  
Agreement, that is, all counties commonly known as the  
46 counties of Northern California except San  
Francisco, Contra Costa and Alameda, the following  
overtime rate shall apply:  
(a) All time worked before a shift begins, after a shift  
ends, or work performed on Saturday shail be paid for at  
time and one-half the regular straight time hourly rate.  
(b) All overtime will be reckoned by the hour and  
hour for any increment of overtime and shall not be  
cumulative.  
Example: 1 to 30 minutes = _ hour  
31 to 60 minutes = | hour  
H. Camps. When the individual employer sets up a  
camp or boarding house on a project, the charge made to  
an employee for board and room shall not exceed the  
subsistence rate paid incurred during a calendar week.  
I. Special Single Shift.  
When the individual employer produces evidence in  
45  
writing to the appropriate Local Union of the Union of a  
bona fide job requirement for a public agency or a pub-  
lic utility which certifies that work can only be done out-  
side the normal shift hours, and notifies the appropriate  
Local Union of the Union by certified mait at least three  
(3) days prior to the start of such special shift, the indi-  
vidual employer may initiate such special shift of eight  
(8) consecutive hours (not in conjunction with any other  
shift), exclusive of meal period, Monday through Friday.  
Such shift shall be in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 18(1)(G) of this Agreement. Provided, however,  
if, by direction of the Contracting Authority, the bid  
specifications require it, or congestive traffic conditions  
on Fridays are such that work conditions would be  
unsafe for employees, or counter-productive to the per-  
formance of work, the special single shift may com-  
mence on Sunday with double (2) time to be paid from  
the start of the shift to midnight and the applicable  
straight-time rate paid from midnight until completion  
of the eight (8) hour special single shift.  
### SECTION 18(2) - PARKING  
A. In the event free parking facilities are not available  
within five (5) blocks of a job site, the individual  
employer will provide such parking facilities and the  
individual employer shall have the right to designate  
parking areas to be used.  
46  
   
Where, because of congested parking conditions, it is  
necessary to use public parking facilities, the individual  
employer shal! reimburse the employees for the cost of  
such parking upon being presented with a receipt or  
voucher certifying to the cost thereof, submitted weekly.  
Such reimbursement to be made on a weekly basis or at  
the conclusion of the project, whichever occurs earlier.  
On remote jobs when the access to where the work is  
being performed (at a job or project or within a job or  
project) is unsuitable, and no parking facilities are pro-  
vided within a five (5) minute walk from where the work  
is being performed, the individual employer shall trans-  
port the employees to and from the place where the work  
is being performed and such transporting shall be one-  
half (1/2) on the individual employer's time and one-half  
(1/2) on the employee's time.  
B. Any employees such as flagpersons shall be fur-  
nished adequate relief for the use of toilet facilities.  
### SECTION 19 - RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS  
The following days are recognized as holidays: Every  
Saturday and Sunday in the year, except as otherwise  
provided herein: New Year's Day, President's Day,  
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving  
Day, day after Thanksgiving and Christmas Day. Martin  
Luther King Day will become a recognized holiday  
when and if the five basic crafts adopt it as a holiday.  
47  
   
If any of the above holidays fall on Sunday, the Monday  
shall be considered a holiday.  
### SECTION 20 - GUNITE  
When Gunite work is sublet, the subcontractor shall  
observe the travel expense for the Gunite crew as con-  
tained in that Agreement known as the 46 Counties  
Laborers' Master Agreement. If not sublet, the rates and  
provisions of this Agreement shall apply to the Gunite  
work.  
### SECTION 21 - STEWARD  
A. The Union may select an employee on the job as a  
Steward and he shall be a working employee. Written  
notification shall be given to the individual employer of  
such assignment. The Union agrees that the Steward's  
duties shall be performed as expeditiously as possible  
and the individual employer agrees to allow him a rea-  
sonable amount of time for the performance of his  
duties. The individual employer will give the Union five  
(5) days advance written notice before terminating the  
Steward unless the job is completed or he is discharged  
for cause.  
B. The Steward shall be limited to and shall not exceed  
the following duties and activities:  
(1) Check the dispatch of each employee dispatched  
48  
   
- under the terms of this Agreement.  
(2) Report to his Business Representative all viola-  
tions of this Agreement.  
(3) Report to his Business Representative any employ-  
ee covered by this Agreement who, during his shift,  
leaves the job site without giving the tndividual employ-  
er and the Steward prior notice.  
C. The Steward shall not:  
(1) Stop the individual employer's work for any reason  
or tell any workers or any employee covered by this  
Agreement that he cannot work on the job.  
(2) Infraction of either of the two rules set forth in  
C(1) above, shall be cause for immediate dismissal of  
the Steward without any prior notice.  
### SECTION 22 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
Any dispute concerning the interpretation or application  
of this Agreement, other than a jurisdictional dispute or  
a dispute arising out of Subsection 7A or B, or a dispute  
arising out of Subsection 15B(S), or a dispute of Section  
26 (Health & Welfare Pian, Pension/Annuity Plan,  
Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement Plan, or Training  
and Retraining Plan) which said sections and the sub-  
section thereof are specifically exempted by the provi-  
sions of this section, the following procedure will apply:  
49  
(1) In the event that a dispute arises on a job, it shall  
be first reported to the individual employer and/or the  
Business Agent of the appropriate Local Union who  
shall then attempt to adjust said grievance or dispute at  
the job site level.  
(2) The grieving parties shall specify the date(s) of the  
alleged violation(s) and the provision(s) of the  
Agreement applicable to the dispute.  
(3) If said grievance or dispute is not satisfactorily  
adjusted by the appropriate Local Union or otherwise  
authorized Union Representative and the individual  
employer or his representative within three (3) days after  
submission to the individual employer, the matter may  
be submitted by either party to a permanent Board of  
Adjustment created for the settlement of such disputes.  
(4) The Board of Adjustment shall be composed of  
two (2) members named by the Union, two (2) members  
named by the Association and an Impartial Arbitrator.  
At any point in the proceedings should the panel be  
unable to reach a majority vote, the Arbitrator shall par-  
ticipate and his decision shall be final and binding.  
(5) In addition to any rules or procedures which the  
pane! may adopt, the Board of Adjustment shall be gov-  
erned by the following provisions:  
(a) No attorneys shall be utilized unless either party  
advises the other of its intent to do so within a reason-  
able time in advance of the hearing date.  
50  
   
  
(b} No briefs shall be submitted nor a transcript made  
of the hearing except by mutual agreement of the parties  
or by direction of the Arbitrator.  
(c) In the case of a deadlock, the Arbitrator shall ren-  
der his decision upon the conclusion of the case at the  
Board of Adjustment hearing unless the time 1s extend-  
ed by mutual agreement of the parties or at the request  
of the Arbitrator, in which case the Arbitrator shall ren-  
der a decision not later than thirty (30) days after sub-  
mission. The arbitrator shall not render an expanded  
opinion in any case unless requested by the parties.  
(d) The parties shall select and utilize one (1) perma-  
nent impartial Arbitrator who is willing to abide by the  
procedures set forth herein. The impartial Arbitrator(s)}  
may be changed or replaced at the request of either party.  
(6) The Board of Adjustment shall meet not less than  
once each calendar month with the exception of the dis-  
charge cases which must be heard at the earliest possible  
date not to exceed fifteen (15) working days. Failure of  
either party to meet or to participate in the procedure  
shall relieve the charging party of further compliance  
with the grievance procedure.  
(7) Decisions of the Board of Adjustment or an impar-  
tial Arbitrator shall be within the scope and terms of this  
Agreement atid shall be final and binding upon all par-  
ues hereto.  
51  
   
(8) In the event an individual employer fails to comply  
with any such decisions, the Union may withdraw  
employees or strike the individual employer and such  
action shall not be a violation of this Agreement so long  
as such non-compliance continues.  
(9) The expenses of the Joint Adjustment Board and  
the impartial Arbitrator, including the cost of a court  
reporter, shall be borne by the Contract Administration  
Fund.  
(10) No proceedings hereunder based on any dispute,  
complaint or grievance herein provided for, shall be rec-  
ognized unless the grievance procedure steps outlined  
above have been followed. The Board of Adjustment  
may, by majority vote, for good cause, accept a late sub-  
mission.  
(11) The Board of Adjustment shall establish regular  
meeting dates and administer grievances filed in con-  
junction with this section as set forth in the rules and  
procedures which may be amended from time to time by  
the parties.  
(12) A decision of the Board of Adjustment by major-  
ity vote, or the decision of a permanent arbitrator shall  
be enforceable by a petition to confirm an arbitration  
award filed in the Superior Court of the City and County  
of San Francisco, State of California.  
(13) All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be  
52  
in the City and County of San Francisco, and/or County  
of Alameda, unless mutually agreed to move to another  
location.  
(14) No proceedings hereunder based on any dispute,  
complaint, or grievance herein provided for shall be rec-  
ognized unless adequate notice was given to the  
Employer and/or Union or Local Union within ten (10)  
days after the alleged violation was committed.  
(15) In the case of discharge, the Board shall meet  
within fifteen (15) working days. The Board of  
Adjustment or Arbitrator shall be free to sustain the dis-  
charge or to find discipline other than discharge to be  
appropriate and may order reinstatement with full or par-  
tial back pay as he or it deems appropriate provided  
there shall be no discrimination on the part of the indi-  
vidual employer against any employee for activities in  
behalf of, or representation of the Union not interfering  
with the proper performance of his duties.  
(16) If failure of a Board of Adjustment to meet on a  
discharge case within fifteen days (15 working days) is  
due to the unavailability of the Union, the wage payment  
and Trust Fund contribution liability shall be limited to  
the above fifteen (15) working days. If the employer or  
individual employer is unavailable to meet the wage  
payment and Trust Fund contribution, liability shall be  
continuing.  
53  
7  
(17) The Board of Adjustment shall settle any dispute  
or grievance involving a subcontractor as defined in  
Section 3 who has agreed under contract with Employer,  
or any individual employer, or a subcontractor of the  
Employer, or any individual employer to perform on the  
Job site any part or portion of the construction work cov-  
ered by the prime contract, including the operation of  
equipment, performance of labor and installation of  
materials. When liabilities are assessed against a sub-  
contractor for hiring violations as a result of a Board of  
Adjustment held under the provisions of Paragraph 17  
and said subcontractor fails to satisfy said obligations,  
the Union shall promptly give written notice to the  
Individual Employer and subcontractor and_ the  
Individual Employer shall pay such obligations from the  
retention of such contractor.  
(18) The procedures specified herein shall be applica-  
ble to any individual employer whether or not he or it is  
a member of Employer or any other associations.  
(19) In those instances where the individual employer  
is not a member of the Employer, the Joint Adjustment  
Board shall establish procedures whereby the Employer  
members of the Joint Adjustment Board may consist of  
one individual employer who is not a member of the  
Empioyer.  
54  
   
### SECTION 22A ~ CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION FUND  
A trust fund entitled "The Contract Administration Trust  
Fund” shall be created to provide for the costs of the  
Employer administering the provisions of this Section  
22. The contribution into a contract administration trust  
fund shall not exceed six cents ($.06) per hour for each  
hour paid for or worked. The trust fund shall be admin-  
istered solely by Trustees selected by the Employer in  
accordance with a trust agreement to be executed by the  
Employer. The contribution as described above shall  
commence with the work month following notice by the  
Laborers' Northern California Trust Fund Corporation to  
the individual employers. The Union shall have the  
right, not more than one time per year, to independently  
audit the Trust Fund.  
### SECTION 22B - INDUSTRY STABILIZATION FUND  
The Individual Employer shall contribute eleven cents  
($0.11) per hour for each hour paid for or worked by  
workers in work covered by this Agreement to the  
Industry Stabilization Fund. Of the $0.11 per hour, two  
cents ($.02) per hour is earmarked for California  
Alliance for Jobs and one cent ($.01) per hour is ear-  
marked for the Construction Industry Force Account  
Council (CIFAC).  
The purpose of such funds shall be to enhance the mon-  
55  
>  
itoring of public work projects relative to Employer  
compliance with the State, Federal or other public agen-  
cies public works wage and hour laws.  
Such contributions shall continue until written notice by  
the parties signatory hereto. Such trust fund shall be  
administered jointly by the signatory parties.  
### SECTION 23 -— LIABILITY OF THE PARTIES  
It is mutually understood and agreed that neither the  
Employer, any individual employer, the Union nor any  
Local Union shall be liable for damages caused by the  
acts or conduct of any individual or group of individuals  
who are acting or conducting themselves in violation of  
the terms of this Agreement without authority of the  
respective party, provided that such action or conduct  
has not been specifically authorized, participated in,  
fomented, or condoned by the Employer, the individual  
employer, the Union, or the Local Unions, as the case  
may be.  
In the event of any unauthorized violation of the terms of  
this Agreement, responsible and authorized representa-  
tives of the Union, Local Union, the Employer, or the  
individual employer as the case may be, shall promptly  
take such affirmative action as is within their power to  
correct and terminate such violation for the purpose of  
bringing such unauthorized persons into compliance  
with the terms of this Agreement. Such individuals act-  
56 A  
ing or conducting themselves in violation of the terms  
of this Agreement shall be.subject to discipline, up to  
and including discharge.  
### SECTION 24 — GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE  
It ts not the intent of either party hereto to violate any  
laws, rulings, or regulations of any Governmental  
authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject  
matter of this Agreement, and the parties hereto agree  
that in the event any provisions of this Agreement, are  
finally held or determined to be illegal or void as being  
in contravention of any such laws, rulings, or regula-  
tions; nevertheless, the remainder of the Agreement  
shall remain in full force and effect, unless the parts so  
found to be void are wholly inseparable from the  
remaining portion of this Agreement. The clauses  
hereof relating to "Hiring", Section 7 hereof, and "No  
Cessation of Work", Section 14 hereof, are intended to  
be inseparable and mutually interdependent. Should  
either of such sections be held or determined to be ille-  
gal or void for any reason, then both of said clauses  
shall forthwith become of no further force or effect,  
and neither party shall by implication be bound there-  
by. The parties agree that if and when any provisions  
of this Agreement are finally held or determined to be  
illegal or void, they will then promptly enter into law-  
ful negotiations concerning the substance thereof.  
It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that  
57  
each and every, all and singular, of the provisions of this  
Agreement be fully in accordance with Federal and State  
Law. Its interpretation and the interpretation of each of  
the provisions of this Agreement is therefore intended to  
apply no broader than that permitted by law.  
### SECTION 25 - WARRANTY  
Each of the persons executing this Agreement on behalf  
of their respective Employers or Unions hereby warrants  
his authority to execute this Agreement and to bind the  
respective party on whose behalf he signs.  
### SECTION 264A -— HEALTH AND WELFARE  
### PLAN, PENSION/ANNUITY PLAN, VACATION  
### HOLIDAY-DUES SUPPLEMENT PLAN,  
### TRAINING & RETRAINING PLAN  
In continuation of the Laborers Health and Welfare Trust  
Fund for Northern California, the Laborers  
Pension/Annuity Trust Fund for Northern California, the  
Laborers Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement Trust  
Fund for Northern California, and the Laborers Training  
& Retraining Trust Fund for Northern California (pro-  
vided for in Trust Agreements dated March 4, 1953,  
August 2, 1963, April 1, 1985, June 4, 1963 and  
November 19, 1968, December 31, 1975 respectively, as  
amended and modified, and the appropriate plans adopt-  
ed thereunder) each individual employer shall pay  
58  
hourly contributions for each hour paid for and/or  
worked, including overtime pay, shift pay, show-up time  
pay and similar payments, in accordance with the sched-  
ule specified in this Section as follows:  
06/25/01 06/24/02 06/30/03 06/28/04  
*  
Health & Welfare $2.54 $3.29 $ * $ $ *  
Retireé Health  
Welfare $0.30 $0.30 5 * $ * $ *  
Pension $2.16 $2.16 $ * $ * $ *  
Annuity $0.51 $0.7] $ * 5 * $ *  
Vacation/Holiday/  
Dues Supplement $2.28 $2.28 $ * $ * 3 *  
** Training-Retraining/  
Apprenticeship $0.34 $0.34 $ * 3 * $ *  
Contract  
Administration $0.06 $0.06 $ * $ * $ *  
*** Industry  
Stabilization Fund $0.11 $0.11 $ * $ * $ *  
Laborers-Employers  
Cooperation $ * $ * $ * $ * = *  
and Education Trust (L.£.C.E.T.)  
* To be allocated  
** Effective 06/24/02 four cents ($0.04) per hour is earmarked for  
L.E.C.E.T.  
*** Effective 06/24/02 two cents ($0.02) is earmarked for California  
Alliance for Jobs and one cent ($0.01) per hour for Construction Industry  
Force Account Council (CIFAC).  
Fach individual employer shall be subject to and entitled  
to the benefits of all of the provisions of the Trust  
Agreements specified herein establishing said funds and  
any amendment or modification or amendments or mod-  
ifications. In order to provide for benefits to employees  
without disruption during periods of contract negotia-  
59  
tions and to assure an orderly means of collecting Trust  
Fund contributions during such periods, each signatory  
employer agrees that he or it shall be obligated to con-  
tribute to each and every Trust Fund referred to in this  
Agreement for any period following their termination  
date of this Agreement unless and until a lawful impasse  
occurs or until a successor Agreement is negotiated.  
The Union and the Employer agree that these plans are  
and have been defined contribution plans.  
The Health & Welfare Plan shall be supplemented to  
provide that the Trustees shall apply amounts from the  
contributions specified in this Agreement to such Plan  
for the purpose of providing benefits to employees  
retired pursuant to the provisions of the Laborers  
Pension Trust Fund for Northern California.  
The parties agree that the Trustees of the Vacation-  
Holiday-Dues Supplement Trust Fund may allocate up  
to twenty-five percent (25%) of the applicable contribu-  
tions for Holiday pay.  
The Union and the Employer agree that the individual  
employers covered by the Master Agreement may con-  
tinue the coverage of its supervisory personnel above  
the rank of foreman in the Laborers Health & Welfare  
Trust Fund for Northern California, the Laborers  
Pension/Annuity Trust Fund for Northern California, the  
Laborers Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement Trust  
Fund for Northern California and the Laborers Training  
60  
& Retraining Trust Fund for Northern California, by  
paying into all Trusts monthly on the basis of one hun-  
dred seventy (170) hours per month tn accordance with  
the schedules set forth in the Master Agreement, regard-  
less of the hours worked by any such employee in a  
month, provided, however, the individual employer hav-  
ing made one (1) payment on an employee shall contin-  
ue to make such payment so long as the employee is in  
his employ. In the event the Laborers Health & Welfare  
Trust Fund falls below a six (6) month reserve, any  
package increase negotiated by the collective bargaining  
parties, shall be reviewed at least ninety (90) days prior  
to the effective date of such increase, and by mutual  
agreement such monies as are deemed necessary to pro-  
vide sufficient reserve (not less than six (6) months),  
shall be allocated to the Health and Welfare Trust Fund.  
Such monies as are determined appropriate for this allo-  
cation shall have as their intent to build a six (6) month  
reserve.  
Any Individual Employer who is found to be delinquent  
as a result of an audit will pay and satisfy such delin-  
quency with accrued interest and in addition pay liqui-  
dated damages. All delinquent contributions shall bear  
simple interest at the rate of one and one-half percent  
(1.5%) per month until receipt of payment. Subject to  
accounting verification, liquidated damages shall be  
assessed on delinquent contributions at a flat rate of one  
hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per month to reflect  
61  
the internal administrative costs incurred by the trust  
administrators in monitoring and tracking such late con-  
tributions. The cost of any audit shall be borne by the  
Individual Employer if the delinquency disclosed by the  
audit is in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)  
and is not the result of a clerical error. When economic  
conditions warrant, the Trustees of the Trust Funds spec-  
ified in this Agreement are authorized to amend the lig-  
uidated damages and interest provisions of this  
Agreement. Any adjustments implemented by the  
Trustees shall be reflective of true increases in the  
administrative and legal costs associated with the recov-  
ery of delinquent Trust Fund contributions.  
### SECTION 26B — DELINQUENCY WITHDRAWALS  
In the event that the Board of Trustees of a fund into  
which the individual employers are required to pay,  
determine that an individual employer is delinquent in  
the making of any payments required by Section 26A  
hereof, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement, so  
long as such delinquency continues, if the Union takes  
economic action against such individual employer and  
such economic action shall not be a strike or work stop-  
page within the terms of this Agreement. In the event  
that any employees of any individual employer should  
be withdrawn pursuant to any similar clause in any  
agreement between the Collective Bargaining  
Representative of the Employer and any other union,  
62  
then the Union may respect such withdrawal, and for the  
period thereof, may refuse to perform any work for such  
individual employer and such refusal for such period  
shall not be a violation of this Agreement. Any employ-  
ees sO withdrawn or refusing to perform any work as  
herein provided shall not lose their status as employees  
but no such employee shall be entitled to claim or  
receive any wages or other compensation for any period  
during which he has been so withdrawn or refused to  
perform any work.  
### SECTION 26C - SECURITY FOR INDIVIDUAL  
### EMPLOYER PAYMENTS INTO TRUST FUNDS  
Each individual employer delinquent by one (1) or more  
months in making the payments set forth in Section 26A  
above, shall be notified by mail by the Administrator of  
the Trust or Trusts applicable of such delinquency.  
Copies of such notices shall be sent to the Employer and  
to the Union.  
Each such delinquent individual employer shall within  
five (5) days of the receipt of such notice (certified mail)  
give a satisfactory bond in a sum equal to two (2) times  
the amount of the delinquency. Such amounts are to be  
determined by the Administrator of the Trust or Trusts  
applicable. Such bond is not in any way to be construed  
as in lieu of any payments required under this  
Agreement.  
63  
All such bonds shall be deposited with the Administrator  
and shall be in a form acceptable by the Administration  
of the various trusts.  
If the bond must be used to make any payments under  
Section 26A, the money shall be pro-rated among the  
amounts owed by such individual employer, with first  
priority to the Vacation-Holiday-Dues Supplement Trust  
Fund, and the balance dispersed equally to the Health &  
Welfare, Pension/Annuity and Training & Retraining  
Trusts.  
Whenever an individual employer fails to deposit a sat-  
isfactory bond within the time provided by this Section,  
if the notice herein provided for has been given, the  
Local Union shall not be required to dispatch employ-  
ees, and further economic action by the Union to obtain  
compliance of this Section will not be a violation of  
Section 14 of this Agreement.  
Any employees so withdrawn or refusing to perform any  
work as herein provided, shall not lose their status as  
employees, but no such employee, shall be entitled to  
claim or receive any wages or other compensation for  
any period during which he has been so withdrawn or  
refused to perform any work.  
Whenever any employer covered by this Agreement is  
delinquent with respect to the payment of any contribu-  
tions or other sums of money due to any trust fund spec-  
64  
ified in this Agreement, the Union may withdraw work-  
ers and place appropriate pickets at the premises of the  
employer or places where said employer is performing  
work.  
### SECTION 26D - SUPPLEMENTAL DUES  
Effective for al) work performed on and after June 24,  
2002, it is agreed that upon authorization as required by  
law, the amount of sixty-three cents ($.63) per hour for  
each hour paid for or worked shall be transmitted from  
the vacation-holiday benefit of each workman and shall  
be remitted directly to the Union. This amount of sixty-  
three cents ($.63) shall not be deemed to be part of the  
vacation-holiday benefit but is an amount specifically  
agreed to as a supplemental dues benefit. The amount of  
the supplemental dues transmittal shall be specified on a  
statement sent to the workman. Such remittance shall be  
made to the Union not less than twice per year.  
### SECTION 27 — PRE-JOB CONFERENCE  
There shall be a pre-job conference prior to the start of a  
job or project, at the option of either party, where the  
agreed or estimated price to be paid the individual  
employer and any of his or its subcontractors if  
$1,000,000.00 or more or where construction conditions  
or remoteness of the project warrant it.  
65  
The individual employer shall notify, in writing, the  
appropriate Local Union of the Union of an award  
of work within ten (10) days thereof so that a pre-  
job conference can be arranged.  
### SECTION 28A —- EMPLOYER'S MEMBERSHIP  
This Agreement is made for and on behalf of and  
shall be binding upon all persons, firms, and corpo-  
rations that at the time of the execution of this  
Agreement have given or subsequently give bar-  
gaining authorization to the Employer as defined in  
Section 2A.  
Once an individual employer is bound by the  
Agreement, he shail remain bound by the  
Agreement for the term thereof and shall remain  
bound by any modifications, extensions or renewals  
thereto unless that individual employer gives appro-  
priate written notice to the Northern California  
District Council of Laborers prior to the termination  
of the Agreement.  
### SECTION 28B - AGREEMENT BINDING UPON  
### PARTIES  
This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs,  
executors, administrators, successors, purchasers,  
and assigns of the parties hereto.  
66  
### SECTION 29 - EMPLOYEES NOT TO BE DIS-  
### CHARGED FOR RECOGNIZING  
### AUTHORIZED PICKET LINES  
The parties to this Agreement recognize that it is vital to  
the unionized segment of the construction industry that  
the work opportunities of the employee and the  
Individual Employer signatory to this Agreement pro-  
ceed without interruption because of disputes involving  
unions not signatory to an Agreement with the  
Employer.  
No employee covered hereby may be discharged by the  
Individual Employer for refusing to cross a picket line  
established by a Local Union of the basic crafts.  
### SECTION 30 - SUBSISTENCE  
Subsistence for employees performing work under the  
terms of this Agreement is set forth in Supplement No. 2  
attached hereto and made a part hereof as if set forth in  
full herein.  
### SECTION 31 - COMPENSATION FOR TRAVEL  
### WITHIN TUNNEL  
The individual employer shall pay employees covered  
by this Agreement working within the tunnel, adits, or  
shafts, on a portal to portal basis as follows: The hours  
67  
   
### ON  
of employment of such employee shall commence at the  
portal of the tunnel, adit or shaft at which he is directed  
by the individual employer to report for work on his shift  
and shall end at such portal.  
If a change house is located more than 1250 feet from a  
portal, adit, or shaft, then the time of work shall Start, for  
pay purposes, at the change house.  
### SECTION 32 ~ CHANGE OF NAME OR STYLE  
This Agreement is binding upon each individual  
employer regardless of whether or not he or it changes  
the name or style or address of his or its business. Each  
individual employer shall give notice in writing to said  
District Council of any intent to change the name, style,  
or address of his or its business, or to perform business  
under more than one name or style or at more than one  
address, prior to the adoption of a new or different name,  
style, or address, or the addition of new names or styles  
or addresses, as specified herein.  
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as adding to  
the scope of work covered by this Agreement.  
### SECTION 33 — WAGE RATES  
There is attached hereto, and by this reference made a  
part hereof, Exhibit "A", containing the wage rates to be  
paid in the various classifications for work performed  
68 A  
  
under the terms of this Agreement effective June 24,  
2002, and on succeeding dates as herein provided.  
"On public work projects where wage determinations  
exist, such pre-determined wage and fringe rates provid-  
ed for in the bid specifications shall remain in effect for  
the duration of said project. Provided, however, each  
segment let by the owner shall be deemed the Project  
and that this provision shall not cover Projects where the  
formal sealed bid procedures are not used. Whenever  
non-signatory and/or non-union contractors appear on a  
public works plan holders list and where the prevailing  
wage determination is less than that which is provided  
for in the current Tunnel Master Agreement, the employ-  
er signatory to the 2002-2006 Tunnel Master Agreement,  
may bid the project pursuant to the prevailing wage  
determination attached to and part of the bid specifica-  
tions for that project. Increases in Trust Funds shall not  
be subject to this provision. Provided further, in no  
event shall wages be frozen for more than 36 months on  
any project.”  
### SECTION 34 — EFFECTIVE AND TERMINATION DATE  
This modifying Agreement shall be in effect the 24th  
day of June, 2002, and shall remain in effect for a  
period of four (4) years without re-opening for any  
purpose and from year to year thereafter except that  
upon not more than ninety (90) and not less than sixty  
69  
|  
(60) days’ written notice by either party to the other party  
prior to June 30, 2006, or of any year thereafter, the  
wage scales shail be opened to review and such new  
classifications as may be developed may be added.  
It is agreed that in the event either party should exercise  
its rights under the paragraph last above set out, they will  
for a period of sixty (60) days prior to the 30th day of  
June, 2006 or June 30th of any succeeding year bargain  
with each other with respect to all wage rates, working  
conditions, and hours of employment for the work here-  
in covered.  
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of  
assuring the competitive position of the parties within  
the industry during the term of this Agreement.  
Consistent with that recognition, the parties will contin-  
ually monitor the effectiveness of this Agreement rela-  
tive to specific geographic or market area and will  
endeavor, by mutual agreement, to initiate such modifi-  
cations to the Agreement during its term as may be  
necessary to assure the work opportunities of the  
employees and the competitive position of the individual  
employers.  
Should an impasse be reached during the course of  
future negotiations to amend and/or extend the present  
agreement, or during the course of negotiations over a  
new agreement, either party may submit the items in  
dispute to the Dispute Settlement Board established in  
70 A  
  
the AGC-Basic Trades Joint Labor Management  
Committee Impasse Settlement Plan for resolution. The  
findings of the Dispute Settlement Board shall be  
binding on the parties.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOEF, the parties hereto have hereunto  
set their hands and seals by respective officers duly author-  
ized to do so, this day of , 2002.  
   
### FOR THE EMPLOYER:  
### THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF  
### CALIFORNIA, INC.  
By: Thomas T. Holsman  
Executive Vice President & CEO  
### FOR THE UNION:  
71  
   
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA DISTRICT COUNCIL OF  
### LABORERS of the  
### LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH  
### AMERICA, AFL-CIO  
By: Doyle S. Radford  
President  
By: Bill Smith  
Vice President  
By: James M. Homer  
Secretary/Treasurer  
By: José A. Moreno  
Business Manager  
72  
### EXHIBIT "A"  
### TUNNEL WORK  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES  
High scaling above portals and open-cut work in front of  
portals are usually a part of the Tunnel Contract and the  
following wage scales shall apply on that part of the work  
which is done by miners as well as in the tunnel. Work  
outside not part of the tunnel is not covered by this  
Agreement except as provided in Section 2 and Section 18.  
Tunnel. An underground excavation (lined or unlined)  
whose length exceeds its width, the inclination of the  
grade from the excavation shall be no greater than 20  
degrees from the horizontal, should the inclination of  
grade from the horizontal exceed 20 degrees, the exca-  
vation heretofore defined shall constitute a raise.  
Shaft. An excavation (lined or unlined) made from the  
surface of the earth, generally vertical in nature, but may  
decline up to 75 degrees from the vertical, and whose  
depth is greater than 15 feet and its largest horizontal  
dimension  
Classifications  
Shifter, whether working or not, shall receive one dollar  
($1.00) per hour above the highest paid classification  
73  
covered by this Agreement, over which he has supervi-  
sion. When shifter is designated by the employer as the  
State Licensed Blaster, he shall receive fifty cents ($.50)  
above his rate of pay.  
6/25/01 6/2402, 6/30/03 6/28/04  
Diamond Driller $27.00 $2700 § $ * $ *  
Groundmen <- ' $27.00 - $27.00 --$ * $ *. $.*  
Gunite or  
Shotcrete  
Nozzlemen $27.00 $27.00 ¢* $ * $ *  
Rodmen $26.77 $26.77 $ * $ * $ *  
Shaft Work & Raise  
(below actual or  
excavated  
ground level) $26.77 $26.77 $ * $ * $*  
Bull Gang — Foreman $26.77 $26.77 $ * $ * $ *  
Bit Grinder $ 26.52 $ 26.52 $ * $ * $ *  
* *Bilasters, Drillers,  
Powdermen,  
Heading $ 26.52 $ 26.52 $ * $ * $ *  
Cheny Pickermen- $26.52 $26.52 § * $ * $ *  
where car is lifted  
Concrete Finisher  
in Tunnel $26.52 $26.52 ¢§ * $ * > *  
Concrete Screed Man $ 26.52 $ 26.52 $ * $ * § *  
Grout Pumpman  
& Potman $ 26.52 $ 26.52 $ * $ * § *  
Gunite & Shotcrete  
Gunman & Potman $26.52 $2652 § * $ * $ *  
Headermen $26.52 $2652 ¢ * $ * $ *  
High Pressure  
Nozzelman $26.52 $2652 ¢ * $ * $ *  
Miners-Tumnel,  
including top &  
man on  
74  
shaft & raise work $26.52 $26.52 $ * $ * $s *  
6/25/01 6/24/02 6/30/03 6/28/04 = 6/27/05  
Nipper $26.52 $2652 $* $ + $ *  
Novzelman on slick line $ 26.52 $ 26.52 > * * > *  
Sandblaster-Potman  
(Work assignment  
interchangeable) $26.52 $2652 $* $ + $ *  
Steel Form Raisers  
and Setters $26.52 $2652 $ * $ * $ *  
Timberman,  
Retimberman  
(wood or steel or  
substitute materials  
therefore) $26.52 $2652 $ * $ * $ *  
Tugger  
(for work covered  
by this Agreement) $26.52 $ 26.52 $ * $ $ *  
Cabletender $26.52 $2652 $ * $ * $ *  
Chucktender $26.52 $2652 $ * $ $ *  
Powderman-  
PrimerHouse $26.52 $2652 $* $ * $ *  
Vibratormen,  
Pavement Breakers $26.07 $26.07 $ * $ * $ *  
Bull Gang-  
Muckers, Trackmen $26.07 $26.07 $ * 5 > $ *  
Concrete Crew -  
includes rodding &  
spreading $26.07 $26.07 §$ * > * $ *  
Dumpmen  
(any method) $26.07 $2607 § * $ * 5 *  
Grout Crew $25.53 $25.53 $ * $ * _*  
Reboundmen $25.53 $2553 $ * $ * = *  
Swamper/  
Breakman*** $26.53 $2653 $ * $ * $ *  
Watchman $25.53 $25.53 $ * $ * $ *  
* There shall be an additional ninety-five cents ($.95)  
per hour increase effective on 6/24/02; an additional  
75  
ninety-five cents ($.95) per hour increase effective on  
6/30/03; an additional ninety cents ($.90) per hour  
increase effective 6/28/04; and an additional ninety cents  
($.90) per hour increase effective 6/27/05. These  
increases may be allocated all or in part to wages and/or  
fringe benefits on the dates as indicated.  
** When designated by the Employer, State Licensed  
Blasters shall receive fifty cents ($.50) per hour above  
the miner’s rate.  
“es At the option of the Employer, the  
Swamper/Brakeman will perform Miner’s work and be  
compensated at the appropriate rate of pay.  
### SUPPLEMENT NO. 1  
### TUNNEL MASTER AGREEMENT RELATING  
### TO COMPRESSED AIR OPERATIONS  
This supplement to Tunnel Master Agreement relating to  
Compressed Air Operations is made and entered into  
this 24th day of June, 2002 by and between the ASSO-  
### CIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFOR-  
### NIA, INC., and the NORTHERN CALIFORNIA DIS-  
### TRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS of the LABOR-  
### ERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMER-  
ICA, AFL-CIO, modifying the supplement to Tunnel  
Master Agreement relating to compressed air operations  
entered into January 18, 1965 to June 15, 1966, August  
4, 1966 to June 15, 1968, June 16, 1968 to June 15,  
76  
   
1971, June 16, 1971 to June 15, 1974, June 16, 1974 to  
June 15, 1977, June 16, 1977 to June 15, 1980, June 16,  
1980 to June 15, 1983, June 16, 1983 to June 15, 1986,  
June 16, 1986 to June 15, 1989, June 16, 1992 to June  
30, 1997 and June 16, 1996 to June 30, 1999 and June  
28, 1999 to June 30, 2002 by and between the ASSOCI-  
### ATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFOR-  
### NIA, INC., and the NORTHERN CALIFORNIA DIS-  
### TRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS of the LABOR-  
### ERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMER-  
### ICA, AFL-CIO.  
Section 1 - Hours of Work  
Hours of work shall be in accordance with the following  
schedule:  
Air Pressure Hours of Work  
1 Ib. thru 14 Ibs. compressed air 6 hrs. work  
Over [4 Ibs. thru 18 Ibs. compressed air 6 hrs. work  
Over 18 Ibs. thru 22 !bs. compressed air 4 hrs. work  
Over 22 Ibs. thru 26 Ibs. compressed air 4 hrs. work  
Over 26 lbs. thru 32 Ibs. compressed air 4 hrs. work  
Over 32 ibs. thru 38 Ibs. compressed air 3 hrs. work  
Over 38 Ibs. thru 44 Ibs. compressed air 2 hrs. work  
Over 44 Ibs. thru 50 Ibs. compressed air | hr. work  
Outside lock tenders and gauge tenders and closed cir-  
cuit television watcher of Headings shall work a six (6)  
hour shift.  
Section 2 - Classifications & Wage Rates  
The wage rates shall be as follows:  
O.D. 06/24/02 06/30/03 06/28/04 06/27/05  
1 Ib through 6 = $221.77 $ # $ * $ *  
Over 14 Ibs. through 28 ibs 6 $22488 $* $ * $ *  
Over 18 Ibs. through 22 Ibs. 6 $ * $ * $ *  
Over 22 ibs. through 26 Ibs. 6 $229.71 $* $ * $ *  
Over 26 lbs, through 32 Ibs. 6  $23247 $ * $ * $ *  
Over 32 Ibs. through 38 Ibs 6  $23557 $* $ * $ *  
Over 38 Ibs. through 44 Ibs. 6  $23707 $* $ * $ *  
Over 44 Ibs. through 5Olbs. 6 23707 $ * $ * $ *  
Outside lock tenders and gauge  
tenders per (6) hour shift $ * $ * $*  
Closed circuit television watcher  
of heading on Saturday and  
Sunday per six (6) hour shift $ 211.89 $ * $ * $*  
Whenever three (3) men or more are in the working  
chamber, there will be a Lock Tender in attendance at all  
times.  
The same rate of pay shall prevail for all classifications  
of workmen working under compressed air.  
The rates above quoted shall be paid in full even though  
less than the maximum numbers of hours specified are  
required to be worked on any particular occasion. If a  
workman leaves the working chamber, without just  
cause, before the conclusion of the specified shift, he  
Shall be paid only for the actual hours worked.  
78  
All on-the-job travel, compression time and decompres-  
sion time shall be exclusive of time worked as set forth  
in wage schedule but compensation for this time is  
included in the pay set forth for the work shift.  
Foremen shall receive six dollars ($6.00) per shift over  
workmen.  
The highest pressure registered on the gauge for an accu-  
mulative time of more than fifteen (15) minutes during  
the shift shall be used in determining the scale paid.  
Section 3 - Location Where Workmen Relieved  
Workmen shall be relieved at the heading or working  
points as designated by the individual employer.  
Section 4 - Fringe Benefits  
All fringe benefits included in the Tunnel Master  
Agreement shall prevail and shall be computed on the  
basis of a minimum of eight (8) hours per work period  
plus the applicable overtime.  
Section 5 - Safety Orders  
The parties agree to adopt such safety orders as provid-  
ed for by OSHA or the State of California with respect  
to compressed air work, and further agree that should the  
79  
Compressed Air Standards, State of Washington,  
Department of Labor and Industries, Division of Safety,  
Chapter 20, Part 2, be revised and/or amended, they will  
make every effort to have such revisions and/or amend-  
ments adopted by OSHA or the State of California,  
Division of Industrial Relations.  
Should the State of California, Division of Safety, fail to  
issue a variance mutually agreeable to both parties, this  
Agreement shall be opened for negotiations of all issues  
immediately.  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
A. Watch crews when required in the working  
chamber shail be no less than two (2) men who shall be  
members of the Laborers Union. Watch crews will not  
be required on shifts during which two (2) or more men  
are performing other duties in the working chamber.  
Watch crews will be paid at time and one-half the  
Straight time rate.  
B. All production bonus payments are prohibited.  
C. A sufficient supply of free hot coffee, cream and sugar,  
paper cups and spoons shall be supplied to the men working and  
be available in the Change House and shall also be supplied on  
jobs whose normal working shift decompression time is greater  
than seventy (70) minutes in the decompression chamber.  
80  
D. On shifts with greater work periods than four (4)  
hours, each man will be allowed a fifteen (15) minute  
lunch period during the middle hour of the work period.  
The lunch period can be staggered so as to keep the work  
going at all times. If a man is not afforded the opportu-  
nity to have an uninterrupted lunch period, he shall  
receive the remaining one-half shift at double time rate.  
E. Competent and qualified men shall operate man  
locks.  
F, When it has been determined by the medical  
facility that an employee cannot return to work because  
of complications resulting from environmental condi-  
tions, he shall be allowed as many shifts off without  
penalty as required to allow the complications to heal.  
The employee shall not be paid for the lost shifts other  
than established under the compensation laws of the  
State of California.  
G. The maximum period to be worked in any twen-  
ty-four (24) hour period in compressed air shall not  
exceed the hours shown in Section | - Hours of Work,  
except in an emergency.  
H. Overtime. Overtime shall include work performed at  
the heading in excess of the "Hours of Work" shown in Section  
|, and all work performed on Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays.  
81  
I. Compressed Air Overtime Rates.  
(1) The overtime rates shall be as follows on production work:  
(a) On ail compressed air operations, whether sin-  
gle or multiple shift, all time worked in excess of  
the specified hours of work shall be paid for at  
double the regular straight time hourly rate. The  
straight time hourly rate shall be determined by  
dividing the shift wage rate by the overtime divi-  
sor, six (6).  
(b) Full shift work on Saturdays, Sundays and  
Holidays shall be paid for at double the specified  
Shift wage rate. Work in excess of the specified  
hours of work performed on Saturdays, Sundays  
and Holidays shall be paid for at double the  
straight time hourly rate using the overtime divi-  
sor as determined in paragraph (1) sub-paragraph  
(a) above,  
(2) Workmen employed on Saturday to perform  
maintenance or repair work under compressed air  
(that is, work other than actual construction) shall  
be paid one and one-half the specified shift wage  
rate. Workmen employed on Sundays and  
Holidays to perform maintenance or repair work  
under compressed air shall be paid double the  
specified shift wage rate.  
82  
### PHYSICAL EXAMINATION FOR COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COUNTIES  
That in accordance with OSHA or the State of California, Department of  
Industrial Relations, Compressed Air Safety Orders Work in  
Compressed Air), Article II, Section 1280(aX!) requiring that "No employ-  
ce shall be permitted to enter a compressed air environment until he has  
been examined by the physician and reported by him to be qualified, phys-  
ically, to engage in such work"; it is hereby mutually agreed, by and  
between the Northem California District Council of Laborers and its affili-  
ated Local Unions, and the Associated General Contractors of Califomia,  
Inc., that pursuant to the Supplement to Tunnel Master Agreement  
to Compressed Air Operation covering such work as is being performed in  
the 46 Northen Califomia Counties, all laborers employed by members of  
the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc., on projects in the 46  
Northem California Counties, who are to be working in compressed air,  
shall be required to take a compressed air qualifying medical examination.  
The expense of the examination shall not be the obligation of the employ-  
ee, and for the time involved to take said examination the employee shall be  
paid at his regular straight time wage rate if he is already employed on the  
contract for which he is being examined.  
All laborers applying for work in compressed air shall be required to take  
an initial pre-employment qualifying medical examination, the expense of  
the examination shall not be the obligation of the employee.  
For all jobs in the East Bay Region which require the above examination  
each applicant will be paid $5.00 if he is required to be examined in the West  
Bay Region.  
83  
### EFFECTIVE & TERMINATION DATE  
The Supplement to Tunnel Master Agreement relating to  
compressed air operations shall be in effect the 24th day of June, 2002, and  
Shall remain in effect until June 30, 2006 in accordance with Section 33 of  
the Laborers’ Tunnel Master Agreement.  
Dated: This day of 2002.  
   
### FOR THE EMPLOYER:  
### THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALI-  
### FORNIA, INC.  
By:  
Executive Vice President & CEO  
### FOR THE UNION:  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA DISTRICT COUNCIL OF  
### LABORERS of the LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO  
By: Doyle S. Radford  
President  
By: BillSmith  
Vice President  
By: JamesM.Homer  
Secretary/Treasurer  
By: José A. Moreno  
Business Manager  
   
84  
### SUPPLEMENT NO. 2  
### SUBSISTENCE  
It is hereby agreed that effective June 24, 2002, Supplement No. 2,  
Subsistence, of the Laborers Tunnel Master Agreement shall read as  
follows:  
Map Description for Area Free Zone and Subsistence Zone  
The following is a description based upon township and area free  
zones and subsistence zones. Area free zones for all Northern  
California within the following lines:  
Commencing in the Pacific Ocean on the extension of the Southerly  
line of Township 19S,  
Then Easterly along the Southerly line of Township 19S, crossing  
Mt. Diablo meridian to the $.W. comer of township 19S, range  
6E, Mt. Diablo baseline and meridian,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 20S, range 6E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.W. comer of township 20S, range 13E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 21S, range 13E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.W. comer of township 21S, range 17E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 22S, range I7E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 22S, range 17E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 23S, range 18E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 23S, range 18E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 24S, range 19E,  
85  
falling on the Southerly line of Kings County, thence Easterly  
along the Southerly boundary of Kings County and the Southerly  
boundary of Tulare County, to the S.E. comer of township 24S,  
range 29E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 21S, range 29E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer to township 21S, range 29E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 13S, range 28E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 13S, range 28E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township.11S, range 27E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 11S, range 27E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 108, range 26E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 10S, range 26E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 9S, range 25E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 9S, range 25E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 8S, range 24K,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 8S, range 24E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 6S, range 23E,  
Thence Westerly to the S.E. comer of township 5S, range 19E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 5S, range 19E  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 5S, range 19E,  
Thence Northerly to the N-E. comer of township 3S, range 18E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 3S, range 18E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 2S, range 17E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 2S, range 17E,  
Thence Northerly crossing the Mt. Diablo baseline to the N.E.  
comer of township 2N, range 16E  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 2N, range 16E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 3N, range 15E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 3N, range 15E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 4N, range 14E,  
86  
  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 4N, range 14E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 5N, range 13E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 5N, range 13K,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 10N, range 12E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 11N, range !4E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township I IN, range 14E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.E. corner of township | IN, range 10E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township I5N, range 10,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 16N, range ! IE,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 16N, range ITE,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 17N, range 14E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 14N, range ISE,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 14N, range !5E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 13N, range 16E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 13N, range 16E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer township 12N, range 17E,  
Thence Easterly along the Southem line of township 12N to the  
Easter boundary of the State of Califomia, thence Northwesterly,  
thence Northerly along the Eastern boundary of the State of  
California to the N.E. comer of township 17N, range 18E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 17N, range IIE,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 20N, range 10E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 20N, range 10E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 21N, range 9E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 21N, range 9E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 22N, range 8E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 22N, range 8E,  
Thence Northerly to the comer of township 27N, range 8E.  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 27N, range 8E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 28N, range 8E,  
87  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 28N, range 7E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 30N, range 6E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 30N, range 1E,  
Thence Northerly along the Mt. Diablo meridian to the N.E.  
comer of township 34N, range |W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 34N, range 6W,  
Thence Southerly to the N.E. comer of township 32N, range 7W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 32N, range 7W,  
Thence Southerly to the comer of township 30N, range 7W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 30N, range 7W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 16N, range 6W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 16N, range 6W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 14N, range 5W,  
Thence Westerly to the S.E. comer of township 14N, range 7W,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 14N, range 7W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 14N, range 7W,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 15N, range 8W,  
Thence Westerly to the S.E. comer of township 16N, range 12W,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 16N, range 12W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township I6N, range 12W,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. corner of township 18N, range 13W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. corner of township 18N, range 14W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 18N, range 14W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 18N, range 14W,  
Thence Southerly to the $.W. comer of township 16N, range 13W,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township I5N, range 14W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 14N, range 14W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. corner of township 14N, range 14W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 13N, range 13W,  
Thence Easterly to the comer of township 13N, range 13W,  
88  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 11N, range 12W,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township | 1N, range 12W,  
Thence Southerly along the Eastern line of range 12W to the Pacific  
Ocean excluding that portion of Northern California within Santa  
Clara County included within the following line:  
Commencing at the N.W. comer of township 6S, range 3E, Mt.  
Diablo baseline and mendian:  
Thence in a Southerly direction to the S.W. comer of township 7S,  
range 3E,  
Thence in a Easterly direction to the S.E. comer of township 75,  
range 4E,  
Thence in a Northerly direction to the N.E. comer of township 65,  
range 4E,  
Thence in a Westerly direction to the N.W. comer of township 6S,  
range 3E, to the point of beginning which portion is a part of Area 2.  
Area | also includes that portion of Northem Califomia within the  
following lines:  
Commencing in the Pacific Ocean on an extension of the Southerly  
line of township 2N, Humboldt baseline and meridian:  
Thence Easterly along the Southerly line of township 2N to the S.W.  
comer of township 2N, range |'W,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township IN, range IW,  
Thence Easterly along the Humboldt baseline to the S.W. comer of  
township IN, range 2E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. corner of township 2S, range 2E,  
89  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 2S, range 2E,  
Thence Southerly to the S.W. comer of township 4S, range 3E,  
Thence Easterly to the S.E. comer of township 4S, range 3E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 2S, range 3E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 2S, range 3E,  
Thence crossing the Humboldt baseline to the S.W.  
comer of township IN, range 3E,  
Thence Easterly along the Humboldt baseline to the $.E. comer of  
township IN, range 3E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township 9N, range 3E,  
Thence Westerly to the N.W. comer of township 9N, range 2E,  
Thence Northerly to the N.E. comer of township ION, range IE, °  
Thence Westerly along the Northerly line of township ION, into the  
Pacific Ocean.  
Subsistence map change shall apply for work bid June  
16, 1980.  
All areas other than free zones shall be subject to the  
payment of subsistence as follows:  
On all work subject to travel and subsistence allowance  
specified in this section, the daily subsistence allowance  
shall be as follows:  
June 24, 2002 through June 30, 2006 - $19.00/day  
The Individual Employer shall not be required to pay  
subsistence to employees employed by an Individual  
Employer in a permanent yard os shop or plant and  
employees employed by an Individual Employer on res-  
90  
ul  
"  
‘dential construction projects (not camps); subdivisions;  
building of three (3) stories or less including utilities and  
site work related to these buildings, streets, roadways  
and utilities which are a part of a residential construction  
project.  
Subsistence will not be applicable within the city limits  
of the following cities or towns:  
Auburn, Coalinga, Crescent City, Exeter, Grass Valley,  
Greenfield, Jackson, Jamestown, Lindsay, Mariposa,  
Nevada City, Placerville, Porterville, Sonora,  
Strathmore, Terrabella, Tuolumne, Twain Harte,  
Woodlake, and Yreka.  
Subsistence shall apply to publicly financed camps,  
highways, dams, tunnels, power facilities, defense facil-  
ities, utilities (except as provided above), sewage dis-  
posal plants, and heavy engineering projects together  
with the camps, warehouses, offices or facilities con-  
structed in connection with such latter projects, such pay  
shall be separate from the wages of the employee and  
shal! be paid him by separate check.  
No subsistence shall be paid on a job located within the  
right of way of a road or highway forming part of the  
boundary of a subsistence area.  
Ifa road or highway forming part of the boundary of a subsistence  
area is relocated, such relocated road or highway - upon being  
91  
oe  
offictally open shall form a part of the boundary of the subsistence  
area in place of the old road.  
When the work is to be performed tn the subsistence zone each  
employee employed to perform work covered by this Agreement  
Shall receive subsistence pay specified herein.  
When the work to be performed is in the non-subsistence zone  
such employees shail not be entitled to receive subsistence pay;  
provided, however, if two or more hours of compensable time  
(straight time or premium time) are worked by said employee tn  
the subsistence zone, he shall be entitled to be paid appropriate  
subsistence pay as specified herein for the enure day. An employ-  
ee or person referred for employment shall be entitled to subsis-  
fence pay for any day on which he is required by or requested to  
report to the job of the Individual Employer, but does not perform  
work due to conditions beyond said Individual Employer's con-  
trol (such as: rainy days, or days when stee! or other materials are  
not available).  
If the Individual Employer maintains a camp in the subsistence  
area hereinabove described, the Individual Employer agrees not to  
charge the employees covered by this Agreement more than the  
amount allowed for subsistence hereunder for suitable room and  
board incurred during a calendar week.  
92 d  
-  
### SCHEDULE "A"  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS HIRING HALL LOCATIONS  
Local City Street Address Phone Number Dispatch Hours  
*67 Oakland 8400 Enterprise Way, #1 19 510/569-4761 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
*67 Sacramento 2717 Cottage Way, #12 916/482-2607 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
73 Stockton 2841 E. Myrtle St. 209/466-3356 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
139 Santa Rosa 81 Barham Avenue 707/542-1107 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
139 Ukiah 752 S. State St. 707/462-4140 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
139 Eureka Oth & E Streets 707/443-8588 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
185 Sacramento 1816 Tribute Rd., #102 916/648-9300 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
185 Redding 9865 Churn Creek Rd., Suite D §30/221-0961 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
185 Yuba City 1650 Sierra Ave., #206 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
261 San Francisco 3271 - 18th St. 415/826-4550 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
270 San Jose 509 Emory St. 408/297-2620 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
270 Santa Cruz 640 Eaton St. 831/475-7058 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
291 San Rafael 4174 Redwood Hwy. 415/492-0936 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
291 Napa (Phone dispatch only) 707/226-7971 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
294 Fresno 5431 E. Hedges Ave. 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
294 Visalia 319 N. Church St. 559/734-9426 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
297 Salinas 117 Pajaro St. 831/422-7077 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
297 Monterey 254 Casa Verde Way 831/648-1081 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
304 Hayward 29475 Mission Blvd. 510/581-4681 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
304 Oakland 425 Roland Way 510/562-2661 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
304 Livermore 2063 Research Drive 510/455-8292 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
324 Martinez 611 Berrellesa St. 925/228-0930 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
324 Pittsburg 1085 Cumberland St. 925/439-1021 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
324 Richmond 101 So. 12th St. 510/234-1069 7:00-9:00 a.m.  
i)  
  
   
326 Vallejo  
389 San Mateo  
1130 Modesto  
* Asbestas  
2920 Sonoma Blvd., Suite B  
300 - 7th Avenue  
2549 Yosemite Blvd., Ste. K  
707/643-7214  
650/344-7168  
209/521-9883  
7:00-9:00 a.m,  
7:00-9:00 a.m.  
7:00-9:00 a.m.  
   
Northern California District Council of Laborers  
Union Plaza  
4780 Chabot Drive, Suite 200  
Pleasanton, CA 94588-3322  
Phone: (925) 469-6800  
Fax: (925) 469-6900  
Office Hours: 7:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.,  
Monday through Friday  
95