United Food & Commercial  
Workers Local 27  
21 West Road  
Baltimore, MD 21204  
410-337-2700  
eS:  
   
   
Bg  
Collec / 2  
   
by & between  
and  
Pathmark  
Stores, Inc.  
| Ba rgaining  
Agreement  
| UFCW Local 27  
January 23, 2005  
through  
January 26, 2008  
es  
### AGREEMENT  
Between  
UFCW Local 27  
and  
Pathmark  
Stores, Inc.  
### UFCW  
   
### LOCAL  
Effective Date: January 23, 2005  
Expiration Date: January 26, 2008  
Tabie of Contents  
A MessageLocal 27 President, Buddy  
1 - 2  
Article 2 - Recognition and Jurisdiction 2  
Article 3 - Management RIGNKS 3  
Article 4 - UNION SHOP 3  
Article 5 - Union Activities 6  
### Article 6 - Layoffs, Promotions,  
### Demotions, Transfers, Posting &  
Job Bidding, Discharge & ADPedl 6  
Article 7 - 1]  
_ Article 8 - Leave of without Pay 13  
Article 9 - Grievance and Arbitration ees 13  
- Probationary Period and 16  
Article 11 - Industry EXPerl@nce wo... 16  
Article 12 - Enforcement of Standards .......... 17  
Article 13 - Strikes and 17  
Article 14 - Hours and Overtime ................... 18  
Article 15 - 25  
Article 16 - Leave of Absence with 28  
17 - 29  
Article 18 - LaUNTY 32  
Article 19 - Union Store 32  
Article 20 - Bulletin Boards 33  
### Article 21 - Validity Of CONtrACt 33  
Article 22 - StOWalds 33  
Article 23 - Welfare 34  
Article 24 ~ Plan 37  
Article 25 - Severance 39  
Article 26 - 401K SavingS 40  
### Article 27 - Miscellaneous Working Conditions 40  
   
28 - WAGES 41  
Article 29 - Entire AGreeMent teen 42  
Article 30 - Succesors aNd ASSIGNS 42  
Article 31 - Duration of 42  
Schedule “AY - WaAG@S 44  
Schedule “B” Union Jurisdictional Boundaries................ 50  
Appendix ‘A’ - Welfare 51  
A Message  
from  
Local 27 President,  
Buddy Mays  
   
Dear Local 27 Member,  
This contract is provided for you sc that you  
can become familiar with the language and  
conditions it sets forth. Please take the time  
to read through it completely at least once.  
It is extremely important for you to know  
what your rights are under this agreement.  
While it is your union’s job to police the  
contract, it is up to you to let us know that  
violations are occurring. We will take it from  
there.  
In Solidarity,  
Dactty 7  
Buddy Mays  
President, UFCW Local 27  
AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 23rd day  
of January, 2005, by and between PATHMARK STORES,  
INC., hereinafter referred to as “Employer” and UNITED  
### FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 27,  
chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers  
International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, hereinafter referred to  
as “Union”.  
### ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE  
It is the purpose of the Employer and the Union to set  
forth, with particularity, in this collective bargaining  
agreement their duly negotiated understanding with each  
other in regard to the wages, hours and other conditions of  
employment for those employees of the Employer who  
are and will be represented by the Union in the appropriate  
bargaining unit defined herein.  
### ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION AND  
### JURISDICTION  
Section 2.1. The Employer recognizes the Union as the  
exclusive representative of all Employer’s present and future  
supermarket employees, except meat, delicatessen,  
seafood and security employees, General and Assistant  
Store Managers and supervisors, within the jurisdictional  
area of the Union as defined in Schedule “B.”  
Section 2.2.  
A. All work and services, other than that of General and  
Assistant Store Managers or supervisory and security  
employees, connected with or incidental to the  
handling or selling of all merchandise except meat,  
seafood and delicatessen, offered for sale to the  
public in the Employer’s supermarkets covered by  
this Agreement, shall be performed only by  
employees within the unit referred to above.  
B. The following work, services and merchandise shall  
be excluded under Paragraph 2a: bread and  
commercial bakery products, soda, specialty foods,  
books, greeting cards, seasonal displays, resets, non-  
food rack jobbers, cookies and snacks.  
C. Employees on the payroll as of February 4, 1985  
shall not be laid off from employment, nor shall their  
hours be reduced during the term of this Agreement  
because of the exclusions.  
D. Should the Employer intend to substitute electronic  
checkout systems for existing equipment in any store,  
the Employer agrees to notify the Union in advance  
and to provide the Union a list of all employees  
regularly assigned to the store on the effective date  
of the utilization of said systems. Said employees  
shall not be removed from the Employer's payroll  
solely as a result of the installation of such a system.  
Employees may continue to be transferred, assigned  
to other work, or laid off in accordarice with the  
seniority provisions of this Agreement provided the  
layoff is for reasons other than the installation of  
such a system.  
### ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
All rights and powers not expressly restricted or limited  
by terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in  
and be exercised at the sole discretion of the [:mployer.  
### ARTICLE 4 - UNION SHOP  
Section 4.1. It shall be a condition of employment that  
all employees of the Employer covered by this; Agreement  
who are members of the Union in good standing on the  
effective date of this Agreement shall remain members in  
good standing and those who are not members on the  
effective date of this Agreement shall, on the thirty-first  
(31st) calendar day following the effective date of this  
3  
Agreement, or date of execution, whichever is later, become  
and remain members in good standing in the Union. It shall  
also be a condition of employment that all employees  
covered by this Agreement and hired on or after its effective  
date, or date of execution, whichever is later, shall, on the  
thirty-first (31st) calendar day following the beginning of  
such employment, become and remain members in good  
standing in the Union. This provision shall be enforced and  
applied in accordance with the provisions of Section 8(a)3  
of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended.  
Section 4.2. Upon failure of any employee to become  
and remain a member of the Union within the period and  
under the conditions specified in Paragraph 1 above, the  
Union shall notify the Employer, in writing, of such failure  
and the Employer shall, within seven (7) days of receipt of  
such notice, discharge any such employee as provided in  
the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 as amended.  
Section 4.3.  
A. The Employer shall deduct uniform initiation fees,  
assessments and regular Union dues from the wages  
of each employee covered by this Agreement upon  
presentation to it of an individual, voluntary written  
authorization for checkoff of membership fees  
executed by the employee. Dues shall be due and  
payable on or before the first day of the month for  
which they are due. The Union shall certify to the  
Employer the amount of regular Union dues to be  
deducted pursuant to the check-off authorization.  
Said deductions shall be on a weekly basis and  
remitted to the Union on a monthly basis. A list of all  
employees for whom deductions have been made,  
indicating the date for which the deductions were  
made, regular dues, additional amounts deducted to  
repay shortages in dues paid due to absences,  
initiation fees, employee name, and social security  
number, shall accompany the check.. The Company  
agrees to transmit the initiation fees and dues  
deducted from its Employees pursuant t9 this Article,  
along with identifying information concerning the  
deductions, in a standard format, such as ascii, ebcdic,  
excel spreadsheet, etc., readable in a standard  
windows based program, if it is possisle to do so  
with its current technological capabilities «and software.  
B. The Employer agrees to deduct authorized Credit  
Union payments from the wages of employees upon  
receipt of proper written authorizat‘on from an  
employee. All such deductions and remittances to  
the Credit Union shall be consistent with the payroll  
procedures of the Employer.  
C. The Employer agrees to deduct from tne wages of  
employees, upon receipt of proper authcrization, one  
annual payment to the Union’s Political Action  
Committee. All such deductions and remittances shall  
be consistent with the payroll procedures of the  
Employer.  
Section 4.4. For the purposes of this provision,  
membership in the Union shall mean that the employee  
either tenders the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly  
required by the Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining  
membership or pays those fees and dues necessary to  
permit the Union to serve as an exclusive repre:sentative of  
employees.  
Section 4.5. The Union agrees to indemnify and save  
the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands,  
suits or liability that might arise out of or by reason of  
action taken or not taken in respect to the dedu tions made  
pursuant to the provisions of this agreement.  
Section 4.6 - Employee Information. Tlie Company  
will notify the Union in writing within thirty (30) days from  
the date of employment, reinstatement, or t-ansfer into  
the bargaining unit of any employee, of the name of such  
employee, the home address, place of employment, social  
security number and job title, full time or part time, and the  
date of employment, reinstatement, transfer, termination,  
or, if possible, change in status from part time to full time  
or full to part time. The Company agrees to send information  
required in this Section 4.6 electronically as outlined in Section  
4.3a of this Agreement, if it is possible to do so with its  
current technological capabilities and software.  
### ARTICLE 5 - UNION ACTIVITIES  
Section 5.1. There shall be no discrimination against  
any employees because of Union membership or activities.  
Neither shall there be any discrimination in employment  
because of race, color, creed, age, sex or sexual preference  
based on applicable law. It is agreed that Union duties and  
activities will not be carried on during hours of work. This  
shall not prevent the Union officials from entering stores to  
satisfy themselves that this Agreement is being observed.  
Section 5.2. It is further agreed that complaints and  
grievances of the Union or the employees shall be discussed  
with officials of the Employer and that such matters shall  
not be discussed with store employees during hours of work,  
except where an alleged violation of this Agreement is  
involved.  
### ARTICLE 6 - LAYOFFS, PROMOTIONS,  
### DEMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, POSTING &  
### JOB BIDDING, DISCHARGE & APPEAL  
Section 6.1 - Layoffs, Promotions, Demotions and  
Transfers.  
A. In the promotion, demotion, layoff, rehiring and  
transferring from one type of work to another, or  
from one location to another, the qualifications of  
the employees shall be considered in conjunction with  
seniority standing.  
Part-time employees who are to full-time  
assignments will receive one (1) month’s full-time  
credit for each two (2) months of part-time service  
in determining their proper wage, vacation and health  
and welfare eligibility. For the purpose o* establishing  
full-time seniority, for layoff purposes, the date on  
which promoted part-time employees become full-  
time shall determine their full-time seniority date.  
Where practicable, the Employer shall combine  
existing part-time assignments within each store so  
as to provide the maximum part-time employment  
per individual within the definition of part-time  
employment and, further, to create as many forty  
(40) hour full-time positions as possible.  
When the schedule of a less senior 2mployee is  
consistently greater than a more senior employee in  
another store and it is brought to the attention of  
the Employer, the employees involved will be  
exchanged provided the work can be performed by  
the employees involved and those employees are  
available for the required hours.  
The Employer shall give one (1) week’s notice to the  
Union and the employee of a permaner'it layoff of a  
full-time employee and forty-eight (48) hours’ notice  
of a permanent layoff of a part-time employee. A  
permanent layoff is one in which the Employer has  
no intention of recailing the employee.  
In the case of temporary layoffs caused by strikes,  
acts of God, power failure or other reasons beyond  
the control of the Employer advance notice need  
not be given in regard to the daily or weekly work  
schedules.  
G.  
=  
  
In an effort to prevent a layoff or reduction of a full-  
time employee to part- time, said employee may  
work a schedule which includes up to three (3) straight  
time nights. The Employer will discuss such condition  
with the Union prior to implementing such a schedule.  
In effecting permanent transfers between stores, the  
Employer shall consider seniority in conjunction with  
ability and practicability, other criteria, the availability  
of transportation and the travel required.  
The Employer, consistent with the needs of the  
business, will offer those employees who submit a  
written request to the Company and the Union an  
opportunity to be transferred to another store before  
new employees are hired.  
In effecting temporary transfers, the Employer shall  
make them as the needs of the business require.  
When a temporary transfer is necessary, the least  
senior employee in the store with similar qualifications  
for the job in question will be transferred. The  
Employer agrees to pay the difference in cost of  
transportation to employees temporarily transferred  
from one store to another when such transfer  
increases their normal cost of carfare.  
. Where an employee has been absent from work due  
to illness or accident for one (1) week or more, the  
employee shall be required to give the Employer not  
less than forty-eight (48) hours’ notice, excluding  
Sunday, of his intention to return to work. Such  
employee shall have the right to displace a junior  
employee either full or part-time respectively,  
regardiess of the posted schedule, without notice.  
The Employer shall give the Union twenty (20) days  
advance notice, or pay in lieu thereof to affected  
employees, of a permanent store closing except if  
the store is being replaced. This information is to be  
treated confidentially. The Employer anc Union agree  
to meet prior to the store closing, if possible, to  
resolve the movement of employees affected with  
the intent to minimize inconvenience.  
Section 6.2 - Job Posting and Bidding.  
A. The Employer agrees to post perman#nt openings  
for higher rated classifications resulting in the  
promotion to a classified position, full-ime clerk or  
part- time clerk. The posting may include transfers  
of employees from nights to days and days to nights.  
B. The posting and bidding shall be conducted in the  
following manner:  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
The position shall be posted for seven (7) days  
in a readily accessible location.  
Employees desiring to bid on a posted position  
may do so within the seven (7) cay period by  
contacting their General Store Manager or  
Assistant General Store Manager and signing  
the posting form.  
The Employer may temporarily assign an  
employee to the open position while the bid is  
in progress.  
The Employer may permanently fill the position  
from any source in the event no bid is made  
during the posting and bidding period.  
Cc. The open position shall be filled in tye following  
manner:  
(1)  
In the case of the promotion of a customer  
service attendant to part- time clerk, the  
Employer may consider availability and  
qualifications in conjunction with seniority which  
shall prevail in the event qualifications are  
relatively equal. The successful bidder shall be  
placed in the position on a sixty (60) day trial  
period.  
(2) In the case of the promotion of a part-time  
clerk to a full-time clerk, the Employer may  
consider availability and qualifications in  
conjunction with seniority which shall prevail  
in the event qualifications are relatively equal.  
The successful bidder shall be placed in the  
position on a sixty (60) day trial period in the  
case of a new job assignment.  
(3) In the case of the promotion of an employee  
to a classified position, the Employer shall  
interview those employees who meet the  
minimum job requirements as determined by  
the Employer. The Employer may consider  
qualifications in conjunction with seniority. The  
successful bidder shall be placed in the position  
on a ninety (90) day trial period.  
(4) The Employer agrees, where practicable, to  
cross train any employee with at least two  
(2) years’ seniority, who is denied a promotion  
to a position other than a classified position  
because the employee has not been trained,  
provided a request for training had been made  
by the employee.  
(5) The Employer shall submit a copy of all posting  
and bidding forms to the Union and shall retain  
a copy for at least six (6) months.  
Section 6.3 - Discharge and Appeal.  
A. The Employer shall have the right to discharge any  
employee for good and sufficient cause. Any  
employee working for a competitor while on vacation  
or time off shall be considered  
Competitor shall be defined as a superinarket.  
In the case of a discharge of any emplcyee who has  
been in continuous service for more than sixty (60)  
days, such employee shall have the right to appeal  
to the Union. Unless the Union appeals t:he discharge  
in writing within two (2) weeks from the date of  
discharge, the case will be considered closed with no  
further right of appeal.  
C. Upon such appeal, the Employer and the Union shall  
jointly investigate the reasons for such discharge and  
the justification therefor.  
D. If the Union and the Employer cannot agree as to  
the justification for such discharge, then the matter  
shall be arbitrated in accordance with the provisions  
of Article 9.  
E. In the event that the discharge is found not to be  
justified, the employee may be reinstated with or  
without back pay and restoration of privileges and  
seniority.  
### ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY  
Section 7.1. Seniority lists shail be established twice  
each year, in March and in September, and submitted to  
the Union,  
Section 7.2. Seniority for all purposes under this  
Agreement shall be calculated by continuous service with  
the Employer from the last employment date with the  
Employer. Employees laid off and subsequently rehired by  
the Employer within six (6) months from the layoff date  
shall retain their former seniority regardless of any change  
in their places of employment. Likewise, employees absent  
solely on account of Worker’s Compensation or ill health  
shall retain their seniority for a period of eighteen (18)  
months from the date of absence but not thereafter. An  
employee who does not report for work immediately if  
available, but in any event within forty-eight (48) hours  
after notice of recall, shall be considered as having  
terminated his or her employment, provided that illness  
incapacitating the employee for work shall be sufficient  
excuse for not reporting if the Employer is informed of the  
excuse within such forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of  
notice of recall. An employee absent from work due to  
ilIness or accident shall maintain contact with the store on  
a weekly basis unless hospitalized.  
Section 7.3. If promotions are to be made to  
supervisory positions, they shall not be restricted by seniority  
nor made the subject of a grievance. The seniority shall be  
retained and accumulated for an employee who has been  
promoted to a supervisory position for a period of one (1)  
year from the date of his promotion for the purpose of his  
election to return to his former job.  
Section 7.4. An employee shall lose all seniority rights  
if he or she quits or terminates his or her employment, or  
is properly discharged. An employee employed elsewhere  
during an unauthorized absence from work or during a  
permitted leave of absence shall be considered as having  
terminated his or her employment.  
Section 7.5. The Employer shall comply with the  
applicable laws of the United States concerning the drafting  
or enlisting of employees into the military service of the  
United States, and shall further comply with all applicable  
laws relating to the reinstatement of said employees to  
their employment following completion of their military  
service.  
### ARTICLE 8 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
### WITHOUT PAY  
Section 8.1. Any member of the Union who is elected  
to a full-time position with the Union, or who is elected as a  
delegate or representative of the Union in any activity  
necessitating temporary leave of absen:e from his  
employment, shall be granted such leave of absence without  
loss of seniority, and at the end of such service in the  
business of the Union he shall be re-employed at his former  
wage rate plus any increase or less any reduction that may  
have become effective during his absence.  
Section 8.2. Such leaves of absence may be renewed  
and extended for additional periods of office terrns by mutual  
written consent and approval of both the Union and the  
Employer, subject to the conditions set forth in Paragraph  
1 above.  
Section 8.3. Any employee may be given a leave of  
absence not to exceed one (1) year for any reason  
acceptable to the Employer. This decision shall not be  
withheld arbitrarily or capriciously.  
### ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCES AN  
### ARBITRATION  
Section 9.1. All grievances or disputes arising during  
the term of this Agreement concerning the irterpretation  
or application of the provisions of this Agreement shail be  
handled in the manner hereinafter set forth.  
Step One: All such grievances or disp.‘tes must be  
brought to the attention of the other party within  
two (2) weeks after the occurrence.  
Step Two: Should the Employer and the Union fail  
to settle such grievance or dispute arising out of the  
interpretation or application of the provisions of this  
Agreement, either party may file its grievance in  
writing with the other party. A “party” is defined as  
the Employer or Union but does not include individual  
employees.  
Section 9.2. If any such grievance or dispute cannot be  
decided between the parties referred to above in Step 2,  
then the unsettled matter may be submitted to an impartial  
arbitrator by either party after that party gives five (5)  
calendar days’ written notice to the other party of such  
grievance or dispute. If the parties cannot agree upon the  
selection of an impartial arbitrator within five (5) calendar  
days thereafter, or such additional time as may be mutually  
agreed upon, then the parties shall submit the matter to  
the American Arbitration Association for a list of fifteen (15)  
arbitrators who are members of the National Academy of  
Arbitrators. Upon receipt of a list from the American  
Arbitration Association , the parties shall have ten (10) days  
to select an Arbitrator. The hearing on the matter must be  
scheduled to commence within sixty (60) days of the  
selection of the Arbitrator, unless otherwise mutually agreed  
between the parties. However, the impartial arbitrator shall  
render his decision, in writing, within thirty (30) days of the  
close of the hearing unless such time is extended by mutual  
consent of the parties of such grievance or dispute. Upon  
notification of selection, the Arbitrator will be made aware  
of all time requirements set forth herein, and if he or she is  
unwilling to agree, the parties will select the next ranked  
Arbitrator from the panel.  
Section 9.3. The arbitrator shall not have the authority  
to amend, modify, or in any manner change this Agreement  
to establish any terms and conditions under this Agreement.  
The cost of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the  
parties. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and  
binding on the parties and employees involved.  
Section 9.4. If either party fails to proceed as required  
by the grievance and arbitration machinery contained in  
this article, the arbitrator appointed by tie American  
Arbitration Association shall be empowered to hear and  
decide the case, even if only one of the parti2s appears at  
the hearing or presents evidence.  
Section 9.5. The right of the Employer or the Union to  
seek legal recourse against action in breach of Article 13  
without submission to the grievance anc arbitration  
procedures of this article is expressly recognized by the  
parties.  
Section 9.6. In the alternative, either partv in the event  
of an alleged or asserted breach of Article 13 nay institute  
expedited arbitration by telegram to American Arbitration  
Association and the other party, and Americen Arbitration  
Association shall designate the arbitrator within twenty-four  
(24) hours of receipt of telegram. The arbitrator shal  
promptly hold the hearing, but in no event later than twenty-  
four (24) hours after the receipt of notice. The award of  
the arbitrator shall issue forthwith and in no event later  
than three (3) hours after conclusion of the hiearing. The  
award of the arbitrator shall be in writing and may be issued  
without opinion. If any party desires an opinion, one shall  
be issued, but its issuance shall not delay compliance with  
the enforcement of the award. The arbitrato’ may award  
injunctive relief and other appropriate relief. Failure of any  
party to attend arbitration hearing as scheduled and noticed  
by American Arbitration Association shail not delay  
arbitration and arbitrator is authorized to proceed to take  
evidence as if such party was present. Enforcement of  
such an award by a court of law is not precluded by election  
of this alternative procedure.  
Section 9.7. The question of damages shall be  
exclusively for the arbitrator and not for a court of law,  
except insofar as it may be part of an award by a  
court.  
Section 9.8. It is agreed that this Article 9 shall exclusively  
define grievances or disputes which may be submitted to  
the grievance and arbitration machinery.  
Section 9.9. This article is the exclusive method of  
determining employee grievances or disputes concerning  
the interpretation or application of the provisions of this  
Agreement. No employee or former employee shall have  
any right under this Agreement of any claim, proceeding,  
action or otherwise on the basis or by reason of any claims  
that the Union or any Union officer or representative has  
acted or failed to act relative to presentation, prosecution,  
or settlement of any grievance or other matter as to which  
the Union or any Union officer or representative has  
authority or discretion to act or not to act under the terms  
of this Agreement.  
Section 9.10. An employee may request a shop steward  
or bargaining unit member be present at a disciplinary  
procedure.  
### ARTICLE 10 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD  
### AND APPEAL  
The first sixty (60) days’ employment service of any  
employee with the Employer shall be considered a  
probationary period. The Employer may discipline or  
terminate any employee for any reason whatsoever during  
the probationary period and there shall be no right of appeal  
therefrom.  
### ARTICLE 11 - INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE  
New employees shall be given credit for a maximum of  
one (1) year of previous similar supermarket experience  
for the purpose of establishing his or her wage rate, provided  
this experience is declared at the time of the application for  
employment.  
16  
### ARTICLE 12 - ENFORCEMENT OF  
### STANDARDS  
The Union agrees to do everything within its power to  
enforce its rules and regulations and the rules  
and regulations and through advice, and example  
to maintain the highest standards of work.  
### ARTICLE 13 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS  
Section 13.1. hereby agreed by the Union and the  
Employer that since this Agreement provides for the orderly  
and amicable adjustment and settlement of any and all  
disputes, differences and grievances, there shall be no resort  
to strikes, which includes stoppages, slowdown of work or  
picketing, by an employee or group of employees. In view  
of the foregoing, the Union agrees that it will not authorize  
any strikes or picketing by the employees, except only in  
the event that the Employer refuses to submit |:o arbitration  
as herein provided or to comply with a final judgment or  
decree of the court of last resort having juriscliction of the  
dispute hereunder. Nothing herein contained, however, shall  
compel any employee to walk through a picket line set up  
as a part of a duly authorized and legally called «itrike against  
the Employer sanctioned hereunder.  
Section 13.2. In the event of a threat of, preparation  
for, or the actuality of any unauthorized or improper work  
stoppage, walkout or strike, or improper picketing, the  
Union and all of its officials will take every reasc:nable action  
to prevent and to stop such proceedings by any of its  
members.  
### ARTICLE 14 - HOURS AND OVERTIME  
Section 14.1.  
A. The basic straight time workweek for full-time  
employees shall consist of forty (40) hours to be  
worked in five (5) eight (8) hour days within the  
workweek. Upon the consent, or to  
create a full-time position, employees may be  
scheduled to work four (4) ten (10) hour days or  
three (3) eight (8) hour days, one (1) six (6) hour  
day and one (1) ten (10) hour day.  
B. The basic straight time workweek for all employees  
will be Monday throughSaturday.  
C. The basic straight time workweek for all employees  
hired after June 9, 1987 or appointed to full-time  
after June 9, 1987 will be Sunday through Saturday.  
Section 14.2. Aijil work between 5:00 A.M. and 6:00  
P.M. shall be at the straight time rate, except as otherwise  
provided.  
Section 14.3.  
A. The Employer may schedule any full-time employee  
hired before September 9, 1973 to work any one  
(1) night except Saturday to 10:00 P.M. at the  
straight time rate within the forty (40) hour  
workweek when the store is open for business. A  
full-time employee, at his option, may be scheduled  
to work any one (1) night to 12 midnight at the  
straight time rate within the forty (40) hour  
workweek when the store is closed for business.  
Full-time second (2nd) shift employees can work  
three (3) days and two (2) evenings or two (2)  
days and three (3) evenings on a mutually agreeable  
basis.  
D.  
The Employer may schedule any full-time employee  
hired or reclassified from part-time to full-time  
employment after September 9, 1972 to work any  
two (2) nights to 12 midnight at the straight time  
rate within the forty (40) hour workweek when the  
store is open for business. However, a full-time  
employee who held that position prior :o September  
9, 1973, reduced to part-time through no fault of  
his own and is later restored to full-tim:2 status, shall  
be permitted to work only one (1) night at the straight  
time rate as provided for in Paragraph 3a. above.  
Full-time second (2nd) shift employees can work  
three (3) days and two (2) evenings or two (2)  
days and three (3) evenings on a mutually agreeable  
basis.  
In order to create or maintain as may forty (40)  
hour positions as possible, the Employer may  
establish work schedules which includ2 up to three  
(3) straight time nights to twelve (12) midnight. A  
night crew employee requesting day may accept  
such a schedule at the straight time rate in order to  
transfer from night crew. Full-time second (2nd)  
shift employees can work three (3) cays and two  
(2) evenings or two (2) days and three (3) evenings  
ona mutually agreeable basis.  
The Employer may schedule any full-tine employee  
hired or reclassified from part-time to full-time  
employment after February 13, 1981 to work any  
five (5) nights, between the hours of 12:00 noon to  
12:00 midnight, at the straight time rate within the  
forty (40) hour workweek. In adclition, these  
employees may be scheduled before 1.2:00 noon up  
to three (3) days per week. A full-tirne employee  
on the payroll as of February 13, 1981, who worked  
either a one (1), two (2) or three (3) night schedule,  
shall continue to maintain such schedule unless he  
voluntarily accepts a five (5) night schedule.  
19  
Section 14.4.  
A. The Employer may schedule part-time employees  
to work at the straight time rate between 5:00 A.M.  
and 2:00 A.M.  
B. Part-time employees may be employed a maximum  
of thirty-five (35) hours per week.  
C. Time and one-half (1-1/2) shall be paid to all part-  
time employees for hours in excess of thirty-five (35)  
hours per week or thirty-two (32) hours per week if  
assigned on a night shift.  
D. Time and one-half (112) will be paid for work in excess  
of five (5) days in any workweek or eight (8) hours  
in any one (1) day.  
Section 14.5. Employees may be scheduled to work  
up to thirty (30) minutes after store closing hours within  
the forty (40) hour workweek for full-time employees and  
within the limit of hours for part-time employees without  
being eligible for premium or overtime pay, except as  
otherwise herein provided.  
Section 14.6. Work performed by full-time employees  
before 5:00 A.M. and after 6:00 P.M., except for volunteers  
and employees hired or promoted to full-time after January  
21, 1978 and except as provided in Paragraphs 3 and 5  
above, shall be at the overtime rate of time and one-half  
(1-1/2) the straight time hourly rate except:  
A. A full-time employee regularly assigned to night crew  
prior January 21, 1978 shall receive a premium of  
ten (10%) percent of their basic straight time weekly  
rate while so assigned or reassigned.  
20  
. All other employees regularly assigned to night crew  
will receive a premium of sixty ($.60) cants per hour,  
or ten (10%) percent of their basic straight time  
payroll rate, whichever is the lesser, fo” actual hours  
worked on the night crew.  
When the employee in charge of the nicht stock crew  
is off for more than one (1) schedulec| night in any  
given week, the employee replacing him shall receive  
one-fifth (1/5th) the rate per night.  
Employees regularly assigned to start their day’s  
work at least two (2) days every weel: before 7:00  
A.M. during the period January 19, 1975 through  
January 21, 1978 are to be paid a premium of ten  
(10%) percent of their basic weekly rate while so  
assigned or reassigned. Upon their reassignment to  
a normal schedule within regular store hours, the  
premium is to be withdrawn.  
Employees who on or before January 21, 1978  
received the ten (10%) percent premium for night  
crew or early morning shift performed prior to 7:00  
A.M., who are involuntarily transferred to day shift,  
shall have the right to such premiums if reassigned  
to such work during the term of this Acjreement.  
(1) Part-time employees may be assijned to work  
up to thirty-two (32) hours on a night shift  
provided, however, they must be assigned for  
a full shift of eight (8) hours. Part-time  
employees assigned to a nigh: crew shall  
receive a premium equivalent to the premium  
outlined in Paragraph 6a. or by. for hours  
worked at night.  
(2) Part-time employees may work any  
combination of day hours, eveniny hours and/  
or night hours in the same workweek provided  
there are no split shifts. Eight (3) hours will  
21  
   
G.  
x  
be the minimum while assigned on the night  
stock crew and four (4) hours’ minimum will  
apply to day and/or evening hours. However,  
part-time night crew employees can work a  
minimum four (4) hour shift on a mutually  
agreeable basis.  
(3) Part-time employees may be scheduled to  
work on the night stock crew by inverse order  
of seniority. Part-time employees will not lose  
day hours solely as a result of accepting or  
not accepting night stock crew work.  
Those night stock crew employees employed as such  
prior to January 19, 1975 will be scheduled to work  
five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour nights except for  
those employees who voluntarily agree to work  
otherwise. Other full-time night stock crew  
employees may bid to fill a newly created schedule  
of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour nights.  
No night crew may start before 10:00 P.M. and finish  
later than 9:00 A.M. A night crew may be scheduled  
to work five (5) five eight (8) hour nights or three  
(3) nights and two (2) days, or three (3) days and  
two (2) nights if scheduled on a regular basis. Also,  
on a mutually agreeable basis, night crews may be  
scheduled for four (4) ten (10) hour nights for the  
applicable premium pay. There shall be no changing  
of schedules to avoid paying overtime.  
Section 14.7. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime  
or premium pay. Hours worked at premium pay on Sunday  
and holidays shall not be included in the computation of  
weekly overtime.  
Section 14.8. All meal periods shall be not less than  
thirty  
required on a regular basis and upon the request of the  
employee, the meal period will be one (1) hour.  
(30) minutes nor more than one (1) hour. When  
22  
Section 14.9. There shall be no split worked by  
any employee.  
Section 14.10. Employees working mori than six (6)  
hours in a work day shall receive two (2) daily rest periods  
of fifteen (15) minutes each, without loss of pay, one rest  
period to be in the first half of the work dav, the second  
rest period to be in the second half of the work day as near  
as possible to the middie of the shift. Employees working  
six (6) hours or less in any work day shall receive one (1)  
fifteen (15) minute rest period during the day as near as  
possible to the middle of their shift.  
Section 14.11. Part-time employees, except for  
fourteen (14) and fifteen (15) year old employees, shall  
receive a guarantee of four (4) hours’ work for each work  
day he or she shall be scheduled to work provided the  
employee is regularly and continuously available for such  
work.  
Section 14.12. A daily working schedule listing each  
employee by his or her full name in ink, in seriority order,  
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or before 3:00  
P.M. Friday. The Sunday schedule shall be posted on or  
before 3:00 P.M. Thursday.  
Section 14.13. Part-time employees shall ie scheduled  
a minimum of twelve (12) hours work per week, provided  
they are available to work said hours on a regular and  
continuing basis. Part-time employees hired on or before  
February 3, 1980 shall be scheduled a minimum of twenty  
(20) hours per week, provided they are availabie to work  
said hours on a regular and continuing basis. The minimum  
does not apply to probationary employees, students, part-  
time employees holding another job, customer service  
attendants or employees not available. Part-time  
employees hired after February 3, 1980 and on or before  
August 4, 1987 shall be scheduled a minimurn of sixteen  
(16) hours per week, provided they are available to work  
said hours on a regular and continuing basis.  
23  
Section 14.14. The Employer, consistent with the needs  
of the business, will endeavor to accommodate employee  
requests to their immediate supervisor for early or late  
shift schedules in the morning, afternoon and evening based  
on their seniority. This accommodation will not apply to  
Sunday scheduling. The Employer will not use scheduling,  
or the threat of scheduling, as a form of discipline.  
Section 14.15 - Sunday Work.  
A. All employees hired on or before April 15, 1993 shall  
be paid One and one- half (1-1/2) times their straight  
time hourly rate for all work performed on Sunday.  
All employees hired after April 15, 1993 and before  
February 1, 2005 shall be paid an hourly Sunday  
premium for all work performed on a Sunday based  
on the following months of service:  
Months of Service  
0 - 12 months  
12 - 24 months  
24 - 36 months  
After 36 months  
Sunday Premium  
One dollar per hour  
Two dollars per hour  
Three dollars per hour  
Four dollars per hour  
All employees hired on or after February 1, 2005  
shall be paid an hourly Sunday premium for all work  
performed on a Sunday based on the following  
months of service:  
Months of Service  
0 - 12 months  
12 - 24 months  
24 - 36 months  
36 - 48 months  
48 - 60 months  
After 60 months  
Sunday Premium  
$1.00 per hour  
$1.50 per hour  
$2.00 per hour  
$3.00 per hour  
$3.50 per hour  
$4.00 per hour  
B. The Employer may schedule part-time employees  
to work at the straight time hourly rate on Sunday  
from 12:01 A.M. to 2:00 A.M., except that part-  
24  
time employees assigned to a night shift shall receive  
the applicable night premium.  
C. Sunday work, if available, shall be rotated among  
the employees who are continuously available for  
Sunday work and who are qualified tc: perform the  
work as determined by the Employer, except for that  
work required for the proper manajement of a  
department or store. Sunday rotatio: shall be by  
classification. Replacements for employees who are  
absent on their schedule Sunday, for whatever  
reason, shall be replaced if necessary the senior  
available employee(s) not already scheJuled for that  
Sunday. The call-in replacement time will not affect  
that employee’s regular turn on the rotation fist.  
D. All employees scheduled for Sunday work will be  
scheduled for a minimum of four (4) hours.  
### ARTICLE 15 - HOLIDAYS  
Section 15.1. For employees hired before February 1,  
2005, all work performed on the legal holidays listed in  
Paragraph 3 below shall be paid at one and one-half (1-1/  
2) times the employee’s straight time hourly rate in addition  
to the straight time holiday pay. Except as otherwise  
provided in Section 15.3 of this Agreement, a\] employees  
hired on or after February 1, 2005 shall be paid an hourly  
holiday premium for all work performed on a holiday based  
on the following months of service:  
   
Months of Service Holiday Premium  
0 - 12 months $1.00 per hour  
12 - 24 months $1.50 per hour  
24 - 36 months $2.00 per hour  
36 - 48 months $3.00 per hour  
48 - 60 months $4.00 per hour  
After 60 months 12 times their straicht time  
hourly rate  
25  
Section 15.2. Upon the completion of thirty (30) days’  
service with the Employer, regular full-time employees shall  
be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time hourly rate if  
there is no work to be performed on said holidays, provided  
the employee works on his or her scheduled work day  
before and his or her scheduled work day after such holiday,  
proven illness excepted. Full-time employees who volunteer  
to work the holiday, if scheduled, must also work on the  
holiday in order to qualify for holiday pay.  
Section 15.3. During the life of this Agreement, the  
following holidays or the days observed as such shall be  
celebrated:  
New Year’s Day Labor Day  
Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day  
Fourth of July Christmas Day  
Employees may use a personal holiday to observe  
Martin Luther King’s Birthday by giving at least two (2) weeks  
advance notice subject to the scheduling requirements of  
the department. In the event the Employer is open on  
Christmas, the Employer agrees it will first actively seek  
volunteers to staff the store. In the event the Employer  
cannot schedule the necessary number of employees on a  
voluntary basis, then the in reverse order of  
seniority shall be obligated to work, provided however, the  
Employer agrees to no more than minimally staff the store  
on Christmas day. Those employees who do work on  
Christmas day will be paid for all hours worked on Christmas  
day at one and one- half (12) times their straight time  
hourly rate.  
Section 15.4. Upon the completion of three (3) months’  
service with the Employer, regular full-time employees shall  
be entitled to three (3) personal holidays within each calendar  
year. One (1) personal holiday shall be taken in each four  
(4) month period of the calendar year. Personal holidays  
26  
may be taken any day of the workweek and the selection  
of the day chosen shall be on the basis of mutual agreement  
between the Employer and the employee.  
Section 15.5. Part-time employees with three (3) or  
more months of continuous service with the Employer shall  
be entitled to three (3) personal holidays of tour (4) hours  
within each calendar year which may be taken in accordance  
with the conditions as set forth for full-time employees.  
Section 15.6. In a week which includes any of these  
holidays, the workweek for full-time emplovees is to be  
composed of thirty-two (32) hours of wor< in four (4)  
days and eight (8) hours of holiday time for which employees  
will receive a full week’s pay.  
Section 15.7. All work performed by full-tirne employees  
in a holiday week, on days other than the holiday and/or  
Sunday, which is in excess of thirty-two (32) hours, shall  
be paid for at time and one-half (1-1/2). A full-time  
employee by mutual agreement may be scheduled to work  
forty (40) straight time hours in a holiday week. All premium  
pay shall be computed as one and one-half (1-1/2) times  
the employee’s straight time hourly rate.  
Section 15.8. All work performed by elig ble part-time  
employees in a holiday week, on days other than the holiday  
and/or Sunday, which is in excess of thirty-five (35) hours,  
shall be paid for at time and one-half (1-1/2). During holiday  
weeks, part-time employees may be scheduled to work  
five (5) days within the limitation of part-time: hours.  
Section 15.9. All part-time employees, upon the  
completion of sixty (60) days but less than ore (1) year of  
continuous service with the Employer, shall be paid four (4)  
hours’ holiday pay at the straight time hourly rate, provided  
one of the holidays listed in Paragraph 3 abcve falls on a  
day he/she would normally be scheduled to work. Part-  
27  
time employees with one (1) or more years of continuous  
service, regardless of whether they are normally scheduled  
to work on the day that the holiday falls, shall receive holiday  
pay of four (4) hours. In either case, the part-time employee  
must work his/her scheduled work day before and his/her  
scheduled work day after such holiday, proven illness  
excepted, and must work at least one (1) day of the holiday  
week to qualify. Part-time employees who volunteer to  
work on a holiday, if scheduled, must also work on the  
holiday in order to qualify for holiday pay. The work  
schedules shall not be changed to avoid holiday pay.  
### ARTICLE 16 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH  
### PAY  
Section 16.1. All employees who are required to report  
for jury service or serve on a jury shall be granted time off,  
when needed, for actual jury duty and will receive the  
difference between their straight time basic weekly pay and  
the amount received while on jury duty, except such jury  
duty fee which they receive while serving on their normal  
scheduled day off. They will be expected to work when the  
jury is not in session, but under no circumstances shall the  
application of this clause result in a change in the  
basic weekly pay for his normal weekly schedule. Whena  
night crew employee is called to serve on jury duty, he  
shall be excused from his daily or nightly schedule without  
loss of earnings. A night crew employee serving on jury  
duty shall be scheduled to work daytime hours on those  
days when the jury is not in session.  
Section 16.2. After thirty (30) days’ employment, five  
(5) days’ bereavement leave shall be granted in the case  
of the death of an employee’s spouse or child, four (4)  
days bereavement leave shall be granted in the case of the  
death of a parent, and three (3) days’ bereavement leave  
shall be granted in the case of the death of a brother, sister,  
mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent, grandchild or  
foster parent of an employee. The time off shall not count  
Sunday or the employee’s scheduled day off. Under no  
28  
   
circumstances shall the application of this clause result in a  
change in the employee’s basic weekly pay. Full-time  
employees shall be paid eight (8) hours at the: straight time  
hourly rate for each day of bereavement leave , and part  
time employees shall be paid four (4) hours for each day of  
bereavement leave.  
Section 16.3. New employees, after sixty (60) days of  
service, shall receive two (2) hours paid leave to attend  
the Union's orientation program.  
### ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS  
Section 17.1. All full-time employees shall be granted  
one (1) week’s uninterrupted vacation with full pay for one  
(1) year of continuous service, and twc (2) weeks’  
uninterrupted vacation with full pay for thr2e (3) years’  
continuous full-time service occurring at any time within  
the calendar year.  
Section 17.2. All full-time employees who have  
completed eight (8) years’ continuous full- time service,  
occurring at any time within the calendar year, will be granted  
three (3) weeks’ vacation with full pay, two (2) weeks  
uninterrupted and one (1) week additioncl, at a time  
convenient to both the Employer and the employee.  
Section 17.3. All full-time employees who have  
completed fourteen (14) years’ continuous full-time service,  
occurring at any time within the calendar year, will be granted  
four (4) weeks’ vacation with full pay. Vacation shall consist  
of two (2) weeks’ uninterrupted and two (2) additional  
weeks, with one (1) week at a time convenierit to both the  
Employer and the employee and the other week scheduled  
before May 15.  
Section 17.4. All full-time employees who have  
completed twenty (20) years’ continuous service, occurring  
anytime within the calendar year, will be granted five (5)  
weeks’ vacation with full pay, two (2) weeks tininterrupted  
29  
and three (3) additional weeks, with one (1) week at a  
time convenient to both the Employer and the employee,  
one (1) week before May 15 and one (1) week after  
September 15.  
Section 17.5. Employees who are eligible for three (3)  
or more weeks of vacation may schedule one (1) week of  
vacation in days at a time convenient to both the Employer  
and the employee. These days may not be scheduled the  
day before or the day after a scheduled holiday or vacation.  
Section 17.6. Part-time employees shall be granted  
vacation with pay, prorated on the average weekly hours  
for the year, under the same terms and conditions as above  
set forth for full-time employees.  
Section 17.7. All vacations must be taken within the  
calendar year and may not be accumulated from year to  
year.  
Section 17.8. Vacations may be selected by employees  
on the basis of length of service with the Employer, subject  
to the requirements of the Employer’s business. After  
January 1*, but no tater than January 15 for forty-five  
(45) days from the day of issuance, of each year employees  
may bid by seniority for the number of vacation weeks  
they accrued during their anniversary year. Said selection  
will be awarded on a seniority basis within department. The  
approved vacation schedule shall be completed and posted  
within fifteen (15) days of the close of the forty-five (45)  
day selection period, but at the latest by March 15" in a  
conspicuous place easily accessible to employees. After  
the bid period, vacation requests will be honored on a first-  
come, first-served basis, except that employees may not  
bump less senior employees who have exercised their  
vacation selection during the bid period. The employee  
may take vacation in any of the fifty-two (52) calendar  
weeks, subject to management approval. Employees may  
start their vacation on any day which is mutually agreed  
30  
upon by the Employer and the employee. The vacation  
schedule of an employee cannot be changed, except by  
mutual Agreement.  
Section 17.9. Any employee who loses more than  
thirteen (13) weeks in his anniversary yezr because of  
accident or illness shall be entitled to a prorated vacation.  
Section 17.10. In the event the services o! an employee  
are terminated, voluntarily or involuntarily, except for  
discharge due to dishonesty, and except as provided for in  
Paragraph 11 below, there shall be paid to such employee  
wages covering the completed period of vacetion to which  
he is entitled upon the termination of such service.  
Section 17.11. An employee having completed one  
(1) year of service and being laid off shall receive as vacation  
allowance:  
A. The full week or weeks vacation to whichever he is  
entitled by reason of his completion of the required  
year of service, and  
B. One-twelfth (1/12th) of this sum of each month of  
additional service based on his anniversary date of  
employment.  
Section 17.12. If one of the specified holidays agreed  
upon in Article 15, except for the personal holiday, shalt fall  
within the period of the full-time employee’s vacation, said  
full-time employee shall be granted an adcitional day’s  
vacation or, in lieu thereof, the equivalent oi one (1) full  
day’s pay of eight (8) hours based upon the full-time  
employee’s regular straight time rate. This provision shall  
apply even though the holiday falls on a day of the  
workweek which would ordinarily be the day o/f for the full-  
time employee.  
31  
Section 17.13. Employee on-the-job service interrupted  
by induction into the U.S. Armed Forces will be considered  
aS continuous in determining the length of continuous on-  
the- job service required for eligibility for various types of  
vacation grants.  
Section 17.14. Aji vacation pay shall be calculated on  
the employee's basic straight time hourly rate.  
Section 17.15. If an employee is regularly and  
continuously scheduled to work on a night shift for which a  
fixed night differential is paid, such differential shall be part  
of his basic hourly rate for the purpose of computing vacation  
pay, holiday pay, jury duty pay, funeral leave pay, personal  
holiday pay, and any other nonproductive hours paid. Night  
differential does not include premium overtime rates of pay.  
### ARTICLE 18 - LAUNDRY  
All coats and aprons required by the Employer to be worn  
in the stores and markets shall be furnished and laundered  
by the Employer. When the employees have agreed, in  
cooperation with management to have drip dry uniforms,  
two (2) uniforms shall be supplied to each employee by  
the Employer.  
### ARTICLE 19 - UNION STORE CARD  
The Union agrees to furnish to the Employer at least one  
(1) Union store card for each of the Employer’s stores  
covered by this Agreement, to be displayed on such public  
portion of the premises as the Employer may select. Such  
cards shall remain the property of and shall be surrendered  
to the Union upon demand.  
32  
### ARTICLE 20 - BULLETIN BOARDS  
Bulletin boards in the stores may be used by  
the Union provided the notices posted thereon are first  
approved by the personnel department. This  
requirement shali not apply to Union meeting notices which  
contain only time, place and date of meeting.  
### ARTICLE 21 - VALIDITY OF CONTRACT  
The parties hereto agree that should an article, part or  
paragraph of this Agreement be declared by a Federal or  
State Court of competent and final! jurisdiction in the  
premises to be unlawful, invalid, ineffective or unenforceable,  
said article, part or paragraph shall not affect the validity  
and enforceability of any other article, part or paragraph  
thereof, and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue  
in full force and effect.  
### ARTICLE 22 - STEWARDS  
Section 22.1. It is understood that the stewards of the  
Union at ail times shall be the last to be laid off, and the  
Union shall furnish the Employer with a comiplete list of  
stewards which may be supplemented from time to time  
as may be necessary. It is further understcod that the  
stewards of the Union shall not be transferred from one  
store to another or from day shift to night shift without the  
consent of the Union. The Union will not unreasonably  
withhold its consent to such transfer.  
Section 22.2. It is understood that the Union shall use  
its best efforts to secure as stewards high caliber employees  
who shall be required to conform to the standards and  
qualifications required by the Union.  
33  
Section 22.3. The stewards or other individual  
employees covered hereby shail not be considered agents  
of the Union for the purpose of calling strikes or causing  
shutdowns, nor are they authorized to calf strikes or cause  
shutdowns.  
Section 22.4. Shop stewards be to a  
leave of one (1) day each calendar year with pay for shop  
stewards training and education. The Union must notify  
the Employer at least two (2) weeks in advance thereof.  
The shop steward must, upon returning from the leave,  
present the store manager with written evidence from the  
Union that the steward has used the leave for the purpose  
for which the leave was intended.  
Section 22.5. Any person designated as steward by  
the Union shall receive any and all rights, benefits, duties  
and privileges of such position, and the Union agrees to  
designate no more than two (2) persons per location if  
store is open twelve (12) or more hours per day.  
### ARTICLE 23 - WELFARE PLAN  
Section 23.1. Employees shall be covered for health  
and welfare benefits as provided by the U.F.C.W. - Pathmark  
Benefit Plan as follows, subject to the eligibility requirements  
set forth in the plan:  
Part time Part time  
employees employees  
Full Time hired before hired on or  
Benefits employees _2/1/0 fter 1/05  
Medical First day of First day of First day of the  
the month the month month following  
following 6 following 36 36 months of  
months of months of continuous  
continuous continuous service for  
Service service for single coverage  
single coverage  
34  
Full Time  
Benefits  
Dental First day of  
the month  
following 6  
months of  
continuous  
service  
Vision First day of  
the month  
following 6  
months of  
continuous  
service  
Prescription First day of  
the month  
following 6  
months of  
continuous  
service  
First day of  
the month  
following 6  
months of  
continuous  
service  
Legal  
Life Insurance First day of  
the month  
following 6  
months of  
continuous  
service  
employees  
Part time  
Employees  
hired before  
2/1/05  
First day of  
the month  
following 18  
months of  
continuous  
service for  
single coverage  
First day of  
the month  
following 18  
months of  
continuous  
service for  
single coverage  
First day of  
the month  
following 18  
months of  
continuous  
service for  
single coverage  
First day of  
the month  
following 24  
months of  
continuous  
service for  
single coverage  
First day of  
the month  
following 24  
months of  
continuous  
service for  
single coverage  
35  
Part time  
  
hired on or  
after 2/1/05  
First day of the  
month following  
36 months of  
continuous  
service for single  
coverage  
First day of the  
month following  
1'3 months of  
continuous  
service for single  
coverage  
First day of the  
month following  
3€ months of  
continuous  
service for single  
coverage  
First day of the  
month following  
24 months of  
co 1tinuous  
sevice for single  
coverage  
First day of the  
mcinth following  
24 months  
cortinuous  
service for single  
coverage  
Part time Part time  
Employees Employees  
Full Time hired before hired on or  
Benefits employees 2/1/05 after 2/1/05  
Dependant First day of First day of First day of the  
Coverage the month the month month following  
following 6 following 48 48 months  
months of months of continuous  
continuous continuous service option  
service service* to purchase  
family  
coverage**  
*Part time employees hired before February 1, 2005  
not yet eligible for family coverage will be required to pay a  
fifteen percent (15%) of the difference between single and  
family coverage monthly co-pay for one year. The co-pay  
will be from the 48 months to 60 months of service. After  
sixty (60) months of service, no co-pay will be required.  
Such employees who do not elect to pay for family coverage  
from 48 to 60 months will not be eligible for family  
coverage. Part time employees hired prior to February 1,  
2005 who have 48 months of service will be given a one  
time option to elect to opt out of family coverage. Those  
part time employees who elect to opt out will receive a  
one (1) time lump sum payment of two hundred and fifty  
dollars ($250.00), and will have surrendered their right to  
family coverage. Part time employees who are not yet  
eligible for family coverage will be given the opt out  
opportunity upon completion of 48 months. Part time  
employees who are eligible for family coverage as of  
February 1, 2005, shall be given the opt out opportunity  
by April 1, 2005.  
**Part time employees hired on or after February 1, 2005  
will, upon completion of forty-eight (48) months, be given  
the opportunity to elect family coverage. If such part time  
employee elects family coverage, the employee will be  
required to pay a monthly co-pay equal to the difference  
between the cost of single coverage and the cost of family  
coverage.  
36  
Section 23.2. The Employer agrees that the Employer  
Trustees on the UFCW-Pathmark Fund wil! continue to  
explore up-to-date medical plan designs to p-ovide quality  
cost effective care at no increased cost to the Employer.  
Section 23.3. All questions concerning health and  
welfare benefits shall be determined in accordance with the  
U.F.C.W. - Pathmark Benefit Plan as governed by the  
Pathmark Stores, Inc. Health and Welfare Plan Document  
and the U.F.C.W. - Pathmark Benefit Fund’s Acjreement and  
Declaration of Trust.  
### ARTICLE 24 - PENSION PI.AN  
Section 24.1.  
A.  
The Employer shall contribute monthly to be paid  
quarterly to the United Food and Commercial workers  
Union and Participating Food Industry Tri-  
State Pension Fund, except as otherw'se provided,  
for each benefit eligible employee. For the purpose  
of this Article a “full-time employee” is clefined as an  
employee who is regularly and continuously scheduled  
to work a forty (40) hour week. The monthly  
contribution shall be made for each eligible employee,  
as defined, who is active during the first fiscal week  
of any fiscal month. There shall be no more than  
twelve (12) such monthly contributions: during any  
twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.  
The monthly contribution shall not be required on  
behalf of employees hired and classified as customer  
service attendants after January 21, 1978, or on  
behalf of employees hired after January 21, 1978  
when transferred to a customer service attendant  
classification. For the purpose of this paragraph, time  
spent as a customer service attendant will be  
applicable following a transfer to a covered  
classification.  
37  
Section 24.2.  
A.  
c.  
Effective January 1, 2005, the Employer shall  
contribute the following applicable sums quarterly to  
the United Food and Commercial Workers Union and  
Participating Food Industry Employers Tri-State  
Pension Fund for full-time employees:  
Service Contribution  
90 days to 4 years $168.75 per month  
4 years to ten years $253.80 per month  
10 years + $288.90 per month  
Effective January i, 2005, the Employer shall  
contribute the following applicable sums quarterly to  
the United Food and Commercial Workers Union and  
Participating Food Industry Employers Tri-State  
Pension Fund for part-time employees:  
Service Contribution  
90 days* to 4 years $20.25 per month  
4 years to ten years $63.45 per month  
10 years+ $79.65 per month  
* for part-time employees hired before 2/1/05, 60 days  
The Employer agrees to pay such contributions as  
are from time to time necessary to maintain the  
soundness of the Plan as determined by an actuarial  
body and approved by the Trustees, as provided in  
Appendix “E” of the Plan.  
Section 24.3. It is further understood and agreed that  
the Pension Plan as amended shall be considered as Appendix  
I of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust.  
Section 24.4. The industry-wide Pension Plan as adopted  
must have the continuing approval of the Internal Revenue  
Service as an exempt plan.  
38  
Section 24.5. It is agreed that all questions involving  
pensions not specifically set forth herein shall he determined  
by the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
governing the Plan.  
Section 24.6. The Union agrees to furnish to the  
Employer the following Pension Fund and Plan documents  
on a timely basis:  
A. Annual Financial Reports  
B. Annual Actuarial Valuation  
Cc. Annual Form 5500  
### D  
Current Plan Document and Amendments as  
they are proposed  
E. Current Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
and Amendments as they are proposed  
F. Notices and Minutes of Trustees’ Meetings  
G. Withdrawal Liability Demand Letters  
Section 24.7. The terms of a letter agreement between  
the parties dated February 4, 1985 are incorpcrated herein  
by reference.  
### ARTICLE 25 - SEVERANCE FUND  
The Employer shall contribute to the U.F.C.W. and  
Employers Supplemental Pension Fund the sum of ten cents  
($.10) per hour for all employees on the payroll as of  
February 6, 1993. Contributions shall be mae for every  
straight time hour actually worked up to a maximum of  
forty (40) hours per week for full-time employees and  
thirty-five (35) hours per week for part-time employees.  
Employees hired after February 6, 1993 shall nwt be eligible  
to participate in the Severance Fund.  
39  
### ARTICLE 26 - 401K SAVINGS PLAN  
Effective March 1, 2001, the Employer will provide a 401k  
Savings Plan. The Plan will provide for employee  
contributions only. Plan design details will be contained in  
the Plan document.  
### ARTICLE 27 - MISCELLANEOUS  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
Section 27.1. The Company shall provide to an  
employee within forty-eight (48) hours after an employee  
is disciplined, suspended or discharged, written notice of  
the reason for the discipline, suspension or discharge.  
Exceptions to this must be brought to the attention of the  
Union (i.e., employee is not available.) A copy of the notice  
of a disciplinary suspension or discharge, containing the  
reason for that action, will be forwarded the Union.  
Section 27.2. No employee handling cash shall be held  
responsible for any shortage, being cash or cash equivalent,  
unless:  
A. The employee is given his or her own register or till.  
B. The employee must be given the opportunity to count  
his/her own cash at the beginning and close of the  
work day and is given the register readings that are  
taken at the beginning and close of the work day.  
Weekly Z-out duties shal! also be performed.  
C. Only one (1) such employee is empowered to ring  
up on the cash drawer for which the clerk is  
responsible.  
D. The clerk has failed to lock and remove the key when  
the register is unattended. The key will be accessible  
to the clerk.  
40  
E. The employee has read and initialed the cash register  
policy.  
Section 27.3.  
A. Time clocks will be provided in all stores of the  
Employer.  
B. The Employer and the Union agree that a proven  
violation of established time clock rules, including  
working before punching in or after punching out,  
may subject such an employee to disciplinary action  
up to and including discharge.  
C. Furthermore, all time during which an employee is  
suffered or permitted to work or is required to be on  
duty or on the Employer’s premises cr at a given  
work place shall be considered hours worked and  
recorded on the time cards.  
Section 27.4. If a physical examination or hiealth permit  
is required by the Employer or local government, the cost  
of the examination or permit shall be borne by the Employer.  
Section 27.5. No employee shall be required to take a  
polygraph test or any other similar examinaticn.  
Section 27.6. The Employer agrees to discuss future  
dress code changes with the Union prior to implementation  
and recognizes that the Union reserves its rigtt to use the  
grievance procedure to grieve on this subject.  
### ARTICLE 28 - WAGES  
The wages to be effective during the term of this  
Agreement are set forth in Schedule “A” annexed hereto  
and made a part of this Agreement.  
4]  
### ARTICLE 29 - ENTIRE AGREEMENT  
This Agreement, upon execution thereof, shall supersede  
all previous agreements and supplements hereto which have  
heretofore been applicable to the employees covered by  
this Agreement. This Agreement represents the entire  
Agreement between both parties and there are no other  
agreements except as set forth herein. Moreover, this  
Agreement may not be changed or supplemented in any  
respect, except by an agreement in writing signed by both  
parties.  
### ARTICLE 30 - SUCCESSORS AND  
### ASSIGNS  
This Agreement shall be legally binding upon the parties  
hereto, their successors and assigns, or other purchasers  
of the assets of any of the Employer’s stores covered hereby  
who may succeed to the operation of said store or stores  
in any other capacity than successor or assignee.  
### ARTICLE 31 - DURATION OF  
### AGREEMENT  
This Agreement shall be effective from January 23, 2005  
and shall continue in full force and effect through January  
26, 2008, and it shall automatically continue in effect from  
year to year thereafter under the same terms and conditions  
applicable during the last year of the original term unless  
and until either party shall give the other written notice at  
least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the original  
or any subsequent term or period of its desire to terminate  
or change this Agreement. In the event either party serves  
notice with respect to changes in or modification or  
termination of the Agreement, it is agreed that the parties  
shall begin negotiations promptly. Pending the outcome of  
such negotiations, this Agreement shall continue in full force  
and effect beyond the expiration date, subject, however,  
to the right of either party to terminate the entire Agreement  
42  
upon at least seven (7) days prior written notice to the  
other party.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their  
hand and seal the day and year first a above written.  
### FOR PATHMARK:  
Rick McGinley  
VP Labor Relations  
Mitch Schafer  
Director of Human Resources  
43  
### FOR UFCW LOCAL 27:  
Carvel M. Mays, Jr.  
President  
Margaret Bohcn  
V.P. Collective Bargaining  
Bernadette Williams  
Vice President  
Donna Smits  
Union Representative  
Joe Celli  
Union Representative  
Phil Lunetta  
Shop Steward  
Kevin McAleer  
Shop Steward  
Carol Waite  
Shop Steward  
Nicolina Wood  
Shop Steward  
Gary Burgmuller  
Committee Member  
### SCHEDULE “A” - WAGES  
A. The following across the board wage increases shall  
apply to those employees at or above the top of their  
wage progression on the date such increases are effective:  
Effective Effective Effective  
1/23/05 1/22/06 1/21/07  
$0.30 $0.35 $0.40  
B. The following minimum weekly wage rates shall apply  
to the following classifications:  
Effective Effective Effective  
1/23/05 1/22/06 1/21/07  
Grocery &  
Produce Managers $767.12 $781.12 $797.12  
Customer Service  
& Non-Food  
Managers $737.12 $751.12 $767.12  
Night Crew Chief $737.12 $751.12 $767.12  
Dairy, Bakery, Frozen Food  
& Dairy/Frozen  
Food Managers hired  
or appointed after  
April 15, 1993 $727.32 $741.32 $757.32  
Head Cashier $729.08 $743.08 $759.08  
Head Cashiers hired  
or appointed after  
June 9, 1987 $717.32 $731.32 $747.32  
Back-up Customer  
Service Manager  
(appointed at the Employer's  
discretion) $600.00 or $614.00 or $630.00 or  
a $35.00 a $35.00 a $35.00  
Premium* Premium* Premium*  
* Whichever is greater  
44  
Cc.  
### SCHEDULE “A” - WAGES  
### CONTINUED  
Full-time and Part-time Clerks hirec’ on or after  
October 23, 2000 shall be paid progression increases  
on the following progression scale. Full-time and  
Part-time Clerks hired before October 23, 2000 who  
are in progression shall receive their next succeeding  
progression increases on the followinc progression  
scale:  
Start ¢6.15  
6 months $6.50  
12 months $6.75  
18 months $7.00  
24 months $7.50  
30 months $7.75  
36 months $8.25  
42 months $8.75  
48 months $9.25  
Full-time and Part-time Customer Service Attendants  
hired on or after October 23, 2000 shall be paid  
progression increases on the following progression  
scale. Full-time and Part-time Customer Service  
Attendants hired before October 23, 2000 who are  
in progression shallreceive their next succeeding  
progression increases on the following progression  
scale:  
Start $ 6.15  
6 months 6,50  
12 months 6.75  
18 months 7.00  
45  
### SCHEDULE “A” - WAGES  
### CONTINUED  
### E. CUSTOMER SERVICE ATTENDANTS:  
1.  
Customer service attendants’ duties include  
cleaning, bagging, carrying out orders, handling  
empty bottles and bottle refunds, picking up carts,  
performing parcel pickup, sweeping and mopping  
the floors, running the buffing machine, cleaning  
the mens’ and ladies’ rooms, handling returns or  
shop-backs, signs, cleaning breakage at all times,  
pulling cardboard, making bales and blocking and  
leveling.  
For the first violation of the rules concerning  
customer service attendants, there shall be a  
warning; for the second violation, there shall also  
be a warning; for the third violation, the customer  
service attendant classification will be eliminated  
in that store.  
. These employees are not intended to displace  
present part-time employees. Customer service  
attendants on the payroll January 21, 1978, when  
eligible, will get the same fringe benefits as other  
employees.  
Eligible customer service attendants hired after  
January 21, 1978 shall receive vacations as  
provided in Article 17 and appropriate days’ pay  
for the legal holidays provided in Article 15.  
Customer service attendants shall be scheduled  
a minimum of ten (10) hours work per week  
provided that they are available to work said hours  
46  
### SCHEDULE “A” - WAGES  
### CONTINUED  
on a regular and continuing basis. The ten (10)  
hour minimum does not apply to probationary  
employees, students, part-time employees holding  
another job, or employees not available.  
6. The pension contribution referred to in Article 24  
shall not apply to employees hired and classified  
as customer service attendants after January 21,  
1978.  
7. Customer service attendants promoted to part-  
time after June 9, 1987 will receive full credit for  
service in determining their proper \age.  
### F. HORTICULTURE, COFFEE CORNERS, SALAD  
BARS AND BULK-FOOD The full-time employee  
assigned to said duties shall be paid tiie applicable  
rate for full-time clerks. Part-time employees shall  
be paid the applicable customer service attendants’  
rate and receive the applicable custcmer service  
attendants’ benefits. These employees, except the  
full-time employee, shall be limited to horticulture,  
coffee corner, salad bar or bulk-food duties.  
o  
### SELF-SERVICE BAKERY CLERKS  
1. Part-time self-service bakery clerks hired after  
February 4, 1985 to fill positions as openings occur  
Shall receive applicable service  
attendants’ rates and benefits.  
2. Bakery Department employees as of that date  
shall not be reduced in classification.  
  
The Employer agrees to discuss workir g conditions  
with the Union prior to the conversion of an  
existing department.  
47  
  
### SCHEDULE “A” - WAGES  
### CONTINUED  
### SERVICE CENTER CLERKS  
1. Part-time service center clerks hired after February  
4, 1985 to fill positions as openings occur shall  
receive applicable customer service attendants’  
rates and benefits.  
2. Non-Food Department employees as of that date  
Shall not be reduced in classification.  
3. The Employer agrees to maintain the number of  
service center full-time jobs as of that date for  
the term of the Agreement.  
### ONE HOUR PHOTO FINISHER -The full-time  
employee assigned to said duties shall be paid fifteen  
($15.00) dollars above the applicable rate.  
### DEPARTMENT MANAGER TRAINEE - The full-time  
employee assigned to said duties shall be paid ten  
($10.00) dollars per week above the applicable rate.  
This position will be posted and Department Manager  
testing will be given.  
### PRICE INTEGRITY COORDINATOR - The full-time  
employee assigned to said duties shall be paid ten  
($10.00) dollars per week above the applicable rate.  
### LEAD CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERK - Twenty-five  
cent ($.25) per hour premium. Employer has right  
to designate, or not, and full time or part time.  
### LEAD COLD SPOT BAKERY CLERK. - Twenty-five  
cent ($.25) per hour premium. Employer has right  
to designate, or not, and full time or part time.  
48  
### SCHEDULE “A” - WAGES  
### CONTINUED  
### N. FULL TIME BACK-UP CUSTOMER SERVICE  
MANAGERS - Appointed after 2/1/05 shall receive  
a weekly rate of six hundred dollars (600.00) or a  
thirty-five dollar ($35.00) weekly premium, whichever  
is greater (plus future ATB increases).  
O. Any employee relieving a Department Manager for a  
period of three (3) days or more shall be paid the  
applicable rate, retroactive to the of such  
assignment.  
P. In the event a store converts to a 100% Cold Spot  
Bakery, none of the Bakery managers shall be  
reduced as a result of this conversion.  
49  
### SCHEDULE “B”  
### UNION JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARIES  
The jurisdictional boundaries of U.F.C.W. Local 27 are  
as follows:  
The territory bounded by the Delaware River on the  
East and the following towns including these towns and  
cities: Chester, Pa., Holmes, Pa., Media, Pa., West Chester,  
Pa., Broomall, Pa., Springfield, Pa., Drexeline area of  
Delaware County, Kennett Square, Pa., Oxford, Pa., and  
South to the Canal.  
50  
### APPENDIX A - WELFARE PLAN  
Unless otherwise specified, the following changes will  
become effective April 1, 2005:  
1.  
Physician office visit co-pays to $20.00 (QPOS and  
### POS II).  
. Change QPOS out of network coinsurance to sixty  
percent (60%).  
. Change QPOS to include $250 annual hospitalization  
co-pay/deductible, $500 annual maximurn per person,  
$1,500 family annual maximum, and increase ER  
copay to $50.  
. Change POS II out of network coinsurance to sixty  
percent (60%).  
. POS II individual in network deductible $50 effective  
4/1/05, $75 effective 4/1/07, and out of network  
deductible $400 effective 4/1/05 and $7750 effective  
4/1/07. Additionally, the family deductidle (which is  
multiplied by the number of lives covered) will be a  
maximum of 3 times the individual deductible.  
Deductible applies to all services, excluding those  
subject to a co-pay.  
. POS II individual annual out of pocket maximum (the  
family out of pocket maximum to be multiplied by  
the number of lives covered, up to a meximum of 3  
times) to $2,000 in network and $4.000 out of  
network.  
31  
### APPENDIX A - WELFARE PLAN  
### CONTINUED  
7. Change QPOS (HMO) lifetime maximum to the  
following (the accounting of which will begin on or  
after 2/1/05):  
   
Hired Hired on or  
before 2/1/05 after 2/1/05  
Full time  
employees $1,500,000 $1,000,000  
Part time  
employees ¢ 600,000 $ 300,000  
8. Prescription Co-Pays as Follows:  
Effective Effective Effective  
4/1/05 4/1/06 4/1/07  
Generic $5.00 $10.00 $10.00  
Brand Single  
Source $10.00 $15.00  
Multi Source* $15.00 $25.00 $25.00  
+ diff* + diff* + diff*  
*Employee will pay the co-pay plus the difference  
between the cost of the generic and the brand (multi  
source) prescription, to a maximum of $60.00.  
9. For employees hired on or after 2/1/05, an annual  
Prescription Benefit maximum of $6,000 per individual  
for full time employees and $3,000 per individual for  
part time employees  
10. Twenty-five dollar ($25.00) annual deductible for all  
in-network dental non-preventative services.  
52  
### APPENDIX A - WELFARE P’LAN  
### CONTINUED  
11. Dental Max program will be implemented that will  
12  
reimburse out of network dental services at the same  
reimbursement levels as in network.  
Employees hired or promoted to full tirne on or after  
2/1/05 will be eligible for a maximum of ten thousand  
dollars ($10,000) life insurance upon «:ompletion of  
ten (10) years of service from date of hire. Part  
time employees hired on or after 2/1/05 will be eligible  
for a maximum of fifteen hundred dollars ($1, 500)  
life insurance upon completion of two (2) years of  
service from date of hire.  
### 13. RETIREE HEALTH AND WELFARE  
A. Full time employees who retire on or after 2/1/  
05 must meet the following eligibility -equirements  
to receive retiree benefits that will oegin at age  
sixty-two (62):  
- Employees hired before 2/1/05, twenty (20)  
years of service from date of hire  
- Employees hired on or after 2/1/05, twenty  
(20) years of full time credited service  
- Minimum age of sixty-two (62)  
- Medical lifetime max $25,000  
B. Retirees, both current and future, will be required  
to make a monthly co-payment to maintain  
benefits:  
- Current retirees and current -  
fifteen percent (15%) of monthly cost of  
benefit.  
- Employees hired on or after 2/1/05 - twenty-  
five percent (25%) of monthly cost of benefit.  
53  
### APPENDIX A - WELFARE PLAN  
### CONTINUED  
- coverage is tied to the retiree. When coverage  
for the retiree ends (i.e., age 65 or death),  
coverage for the dependant also ends.  
Cc. Retirees will receive the same benefits as active  
employees, with dependant coverage, amended as  
follows:  
Retired before 2/1/05  
- Medical age 62 - 65  
- Dental age 55 - death  
- Vision age 55 - death  
- Prescription age 55 - death. Effective 1/1/06 or at  
age 65 if later, retiree becomes covered by Medicare  
Part D prescription coverage. Company will  
supplement that coverage at $600.00 per year per  
retiree, in a medical spending account, to be used by  
the retiree for prescription expenses of the retiree  
and/or the retiree’s dependants. Employees retired  
as of 2/1/05 will receive the annual $600 subsidy till  
death.  
Retired on or after 2/1/05  
- Medical age 62 - 65  
- Dental age 62 - death  
- Vision age 62 - death  
- Prescription age 62 - 65. Effective 1/1/06  
Prescription at age 65, retiree becomes covered by  
Medicare Part D prescription coverage. Company  
will supplement that coverage at $600.00 per year  
per retiree, in a medical spending account, to be used  
by the retiree for prescription expenses of the retiree  
and/or the retiree’s dependants. Employees hired  
before 2/1/05 who retire on or after 2/1/05 will  
receive the annual $600 subsidy till age seventy-five  
(75). Employees hired on or after 2/1/05 will not  
be eligible for the prescription subsidy.  
54  
January 26, 2005  
Mr. Rick McGinley  
Vice President, Labor Relations  
Pathmark Stores, Inc.  
200 Milik Street  
Cateret, New Jersey 07008  
RE: Floor Care  
Dear Mr. McGinley:  
This letter confirms the following understanding  
reached during negotiations resulting in our Collective  
Bargaining Agreement dated January 26, 2005.  
Pathmark Stores, Inc. will have the right ‘70 implement  
the use of an outside floor waxing service in all its stores,  
provided no employee performing floor waxing duties as of  
July 19, 1998 will lose hours, pay or their empioyment as a  
direct result of the Company using the outside floor waxing  
servicing.  
Please sign and return a copy of this letter indicating  
your agreement with the foregoing at your earliest  
convenience.  
Very truly yours,  
Carvel M. Mays, Jr.  
President  
### FOR THE COMPANY  
Rick McGinley, Vice President Labor Relations  
35  
January 26, 2005  
Mr. Rick McGinley  
Vice President, Labor Relations  
Pathmark Stores, Inc.  
200 Milik Street  
Cateret, New Jersey 07008  
RE: Schedule Committee  
Dear Mr. McGinley:  
This letter confirms the following understanding  
reached during negotiations resulting in our Collective  
Bargaining Agreement dated January 26, 2005.  
The Company and the Union agree to establish a  
committee to review and discuss part-time scheduling  
concerns or issues. This will be done on a store by store  
basis with representatives from both the Company and the  
Union going to the stores to review the hourly schedules.  
Please sign and return a copy of this letter indicating  
your agreement with the foregoing at your earliest  
convenience.  
Very truly yours,  
Carvel M. Mays, Jr.  
President  
### FOR THE COMPANY:  
Rick McGinley, Vice President Labor Relations  
56  
January 26, 2005  
Mr. Rick McGinley  
Vice President, Labor Relations  
Pathmark Stores, Inc.  
200 Milik Street  
Cateret, New Jersey 07008  
RE: Payroll Deduction for  
Active Ballot Club  
Dear Mr. McGinley:  
The Company agrees it will begin weekly payroll  
deduction for the Union's Political Action (Active  
Ballot Club) if at any time during the life of the Agreement  
the Company has the ability to do so.  
Very truly yours,  
Carvel M. Mavs, Jr.  
President  
### FOR THE COMPANY:  
Rick McGinley, Vice President Labor Relations  
57  
January 26, 2005  
Mr. Rick McGinley  
Vice President, Labor Relations  
Pathmark Stores, Inc.  
200 Milik Street  
Cateret, New Jersey 07008  
RE: Dunkin Donuts  
Dear Mr. McGinley:  
This letter is to confirm our understanding that  
Pathmark will be selling Dunkin Donuts products produced  
off-site by a Dunkin Donuts franchise. The Dunkin Donuts  
franchisee will be responsible pursuant to the franchisee’s  
agreement with Dunkin Donuts for managing the Dunkin  
Donuts operation at each Pathmark store. These managers,  
assigned by the franchisee, will neither be employees of  
Pathmark nor members of Local 27. Only one such  
manager will be assigned to each shift. All in-store personnel  
working in the Dunkin Donuts operation, other than the  
Dunkin Donuts Managers, will be Local 27 members  
pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement between  
Pathmark Stores, Inc. and Local 27. All disciplining of Local  
27 members working in the Dunkin Donuts operation will  
be handled in accordance with the Collective Bargaining  
Agreement and will be administered by Pathmark  
management.  
Individuals assigned to the Dunkin Donuts operation  
will be required to wear Dunkin Donuts’ uniforms when  
working in the Dunkin Donuts section. Under the Dunkin  
Donuts contract, in the event of staffing shortages, the  
franchisee may, in limited circumstances, properly staff the  
kiosk with franchisee employees.  
Pathmark will be required under the contract with  
Dunkin Donuts to meet Dunkin Donuts’ quality control and  
other standards.  
58  
Rick McGinley  
January 26, 2005  
Page 2  
It is anticipated the first Dunkin Donuts: kiosk will be  
installed later this year.  
Very truly yours,  
Carvel M. Mays, Jr.  
President  
### FOR THE COMPANY:  
Rick McGinley, Vice President Labor Relations  
59  
January 26, 2005  
Mr. Rick McGinley  
Vice President, Labor Relations  
Pathmark Stores, Inc.  
200 Milik Street  
Cateret, New Jersey 07008  
RE: United Food and  
Commercial Workers  
Union and Participating  
Food Industry Employers  
Tri-State Pension Fund  
Dear Mr. McGinley:  
This letter confirms the following renewed  
understanding reached during negotiations resulting in our  
Collective Bargaining Agreement dated October 22, 2000:  
Contributions to the Pension Fund shall be suspended  
tot he extent that they are not deductible for the Employer’s  
taxable year or period with respect to which the Contribution  
is made if the Pension fund exceeds the full funding limitation  
as defined in Section 412 (c)(7) of the Internal Revenue  
Code and Section 302 (c)(7) of ERISA. The determination  
as to deductibility shall be based on information reasonably  
available concerning the funding based on information  
reasonably available concerning the funding status of the  
Pension Fund at the time the contribution is to be made.  
Contributions shall resume as soon as written notice is  
received from the Fund Actuary or the Internal Revenue  
Service that the Fund no longer exceeds the full funding  
limitation.  
60  
Rick McGinley  
January 26, 2005  
Page 2  
Please sign and return a copy of this letter indicating  
your agreement with the foregoing at your earliest  
convenience.  
Very truly yours,  
Carvel M. Mays, Jr.  
President  
### FOR THE COMPANY:  
Rick McGinley, Vice President Labor Relations  
61  
January 26, 2005  
Mr. Rick McGinley  
Vice President, Labor Relations  
Pathmark Stores, Inc.  
200 Milik Street  
Cateret, New Jersey 07008  
RE: Increased Starting Rates  
Collective Bargaining  
Agreement  
Dated January 26, 2005  
Dear Mr. McGinley:  
This letter confirms the following understanding  
reached during negotiations resulting in our Collective  
Bargaining Agreement dated January 26, 2005.  
The Employer agrees that if it increases the starting  
rate in any store, employees on the payroll at that time will  
be offered the opportunity to transfer to that store.  
Please Sign and return a copy of this letter indicating  
your agreement with the foregoing at your earliest  
convenience.  
Very truly yours,  
Carvel M. Mays, Jr.  
President  
### FOR THE COMPANY  
Rick McGinley, Vice President Labor Relations  
62