Sl 5  
### WRK KIKI KK IK KKK Kk  
O9Q Red  
### AGREEMENT  
### MADE BETWEEN  
### MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL  
### OF CARPENTERS  
### BALTIMORE DISTRICT  
### AFFILIATED WITH THE UNITED  
### BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS  
### AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO  
### AND  
    
### THE LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION OF  
### THE MARYLAND CHAPTER OF THE  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF AMERICA, INC.  
APRIL 1, 2005 THRU MARCH 31, 2008  
OS 32  
### KKK  
### SR PE |  
Maryland Chapter of the  
Associated General Contractors  
of America, inc.  
202 Heaver Plaza  
1301 York Road  
Lutherville, Maryland 21093  
Te}. (410) 321-7870  
Fax (410) 339-5273  
Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenters  
Baltimore District  
801 W. Patapsco Avenue  
Baltimore, Maryland 21230  
Tel. (410) 355-5555  
Fax (410) 355-0620  
   
### AGREEMENT  
### MADE BETWEEN  
### MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
### BALTIMORE DISTRICT  
### AFFILIATED WITH THE UNITED  
### BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS  
### AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO  
### AND  
### THE LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION OF  
### THE MARYLAND CHAPTER OF THE  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF AMERICA, INC.  
APRIL 1, 2005 THRU MARCH 31, 2008  
32  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### ARTICLE I  
### Purpose and Object  
### ARTICLE II  
### Principles  
### ARTICLE IIT  
### Territory  
### ARTICLE IV  
### Trade Autonomy and Jurisdiction  
### ARTICLE V  
### Apprenticeship and Training  
### ARTICLE VI  
### Hours of Work  
### ARTICLE VII  
### Overtime and Holidays  
### ARTICLE VIIT  
### Shift Wark  
### ARTICLE IX  
### Wages  
### ARTICLE X  
### Stewards  
### ARTICLE XI  
### Responsibilities  
### ARTICLE XII  
### General Working Rules  
### ARTICLE XIIT  
### No Strike Clause ~ Grievances and Arbitration  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### Rules Pertaining to Foremen and General Foreman Generally  
### ARTICLE XV  
### Specia! Rules Governing Pile Drivers  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### Special Rules Governing Millwright and Machinery Erectors  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### Rules Pertaining to Millwrights and Machinery Erectors Foremen  
and General Foremen  
10  
il  
11  
13  
14  
415  
18  
21  
22  
24  
30  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### Special Rules Governing Drivers and Tenders  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### Special! Projects  
### ARTICLE XX  
### Contracting and Subcontracting  
### ARTICLE XxI  
### Construction Industry Advancement Program  
### ARTICLE XXI(A)  
### Joint Trades Labor Management Committee  
### ARTICLE XXII  
### Check-Off of Union Membership Dués  
### ARTICLE XXIII  
### Fringe Benefits  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### Management Rights  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### Equal Opportunity  
### ARTICLE XXVI  
### Jurisdictional Disputes  
### ARTICLE XXVII  
### Prevailing Wage Reports  
### ARTICLE XXVIII  
### Separability and Savings Ciause  
### ARTICLE XXIX  
### Drug and Alcohol Policy  
### ARTICLE XXX  
### Duration of Agreement  
### ACCEPTANCE  
### APPENDIX I  
### SCHEDULE A  
### SCHEDULE B  
### SCHEDULE C  
30  
31  
32  
ae  
34  
35  
36  
39  
40  
40  
40  
41  
41  
42  
44  
46  
47  
48  
   
### AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT Is made effective and entered into as of this 1% day of April,  
### 2005 by and between the LABOR RELATIONS DIVISON OF THE MARYLAND CHAPTER OF  
### THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA, INC., hereinafter referred to as  
the Labor Relations Division, acting as the Collective Bargaining Agent for the Contractors  
who have given the Labor Relations Division written authorization to represent them for  
purposes of collective bargaining with the Union, said Contractors being referred to  
hereinafter both collectively and individually as the “Employer”, “Employer Contractor”, or  
### “Contractors”, and THE MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS ~  
### BALTIMORE DISTRICT, AFFILIATED WITH THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS  
AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, on behalf of itself and its member Local Unions,  
referred to hereinafter as the “Union”,  
### ARTICLE 1  
### Purpose and Object  
The purpose and object of this Agreement is to establish and maintain wages,  
hours and working conditions for the work covered by this Agreement, to prevent strikes  
and lockouts, to insure the peaceable adjustment and settlement of ny and alt  
grievances, disputes or other differences which may arise between the parties as such, or  
between them as Employer and Union and to provide for the adjustment of disputes  
between the trades and jurisdictional disputes. |  
### ARTICLE If  
### Principles  
Section 1. The Labor Relations Division, on behalf of such individual Contractors  
who have given written authorization to the Labor Relations Division to represent them  
for the purpose of collective-bargalning with the Union hereby recognizes the Union as  
the exclusive Collective Bargaining Representative for all of their Employees covered by  
this Agreement for all purposes of collective bargaining. The Union recognizes the Labor  
Relations Division as the exclusive Bargaining Representative for all Contractors who  
have given the Labor Relations Division written authorization to represent them for  
purposes of collective bargaining with the Union. In the event an Employer withdraws its  
authorization for the Labor Relations Division to represent it for purposes of collective  
bargaining during the existence of this Agreement, it shall nevertheless be bound by all of  
the provisions found herein for the duration of this Agreement.  
Section 2. It shall be a condition of employment that all Employees covered by  
this Agreement, who are members of the Union in good standing on the execution date of  
this Agreement, shall remain members In good standing and those who are not members  
on the execution date of this Agreement shall on and after the seventh (7) day following  
the execution date of this Agreement remain members in good standing in the Union. It  
shall also be a condition of employment that al! Employees covered by this Agreement  
who are hired on or after its execution date shall on and after the seventh (7") day  
following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good  
standing in the Union.  
Section 3. The Business Representatives of the Union shall have the right to  
Interview Employees covered by this Agreement during working hours. Sald Business  
Representatives of the Union shall comply with general conditions on the job regarding  
passes, entrance to be used, etc.  
Section 4. The amount and character of work demanded of the Employees  
covered by this Agreement by the Employer or his representatives shall not be  
unreasonable nor it be restricted by the Union, its representatives, officers or  
members.  
### ARTICLE ITI  
### Territory  
Section 1. The Baltimore District services and the terms of this Agreement shall  
apply in full within the following boundaries in the State of Maryland:  
From the Point of Rocks, going in a southeasterly directlon to  
the Montgomery County Line thence in a northeasterly  
direction along the County Line to Frederick County to Route  
27. Then in a southeasterly direction following the County Line  
of Howard and Montgomery Counties through to Priest Bridge;  
northeast to Route 3 and the Patuxent River; beginning at  
Route 3 and the Patuxent River, north on Route 3 to the  
junction of Benfield Road, then right on Benfield Road to the  
junction of Jumpers Hole Road, left on Jumpers Hole Road to  
the junction of Ritchie Highway, teft on Ritchie Highway to the  
junction of Route 100, right on Route 100 to Route 177 and  
continuing in an easterly direction on Route 177 to Gibson  
Island and on to Elkton; then north to the Pennsyivania State  
Line, and continuing upon the Pennsylvania State Line until it  
meets the west line of jurisdiction at Washington County. Then  
going in a southerly direction along the County Line to the  
Boundary Line between West Virginia and Maryland, then  
following this the Maryland State Boundary Line of West  
Virginia to the Point of Rocks.  
Section 2. The Baltimore District services and the terms of this Agreement shall  
apply in full in the following counties within the State of West Virginia:  
Berkeley, Grant, Hampshire, Hardy, Jefferson, Mineral, Morgan  
and Pendleton,  
Section 3. The terms of this Agreement for Millwrights only shail  
apply in the follawing countiés within the State of Virginia:  
Arlington, Frederick, Clarke, Loudoun, Shenandoah, Warren,  
Fauquier, Page, Rappahannock, Prince William, Fairfax,  
Culpepper, Stafford, Orange, Spotsylvania, King Alexandria,  
and Falls Church.  
### ARTICLE Iv  
### Trade Autonomy and Jurisdiction  
Section 1, The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all of the work that is  
described in Sections 2, 3, 4, and 5 of this Article and work that is described in Articles  
XV, XVI and XVIII of this Agreement snd only Employees covered by this Agreement shall  
be employed by the Employer to perform said work. .  
Section 2. The trade jurisdiction of the Union consists of the milling, fashioning,  
joining, assembling, erecting, fastening or dismantling of all material of wood, plastic,  
metal, fiber, cork and composition, and ali other substitute materials and atl work  
connected with the installation of store fixtures, glass shelving and camponent parts. The  
jurisdiction .also includes -handling, .erecting, installing,- and dismantling of  
machinery and equipment and the manufacturing of al} materials where the skill,  
knowledge and training of the Carpenters or Joiners are required, either through the  
operation of machine or hand tools, either.at the job site or in production shops, mills  
and factories.  
Section 3. The claim of jurisdiction, extends over the following divisions  
and subdivisions of the carpentry trade: Carpenters and Joiners; Timber Men and Core  
Drillers; Shipwrights; Boat Builders; Ship Carpenters; Joiners and Caulkers; Cabinet  
Makers; Bench Hands; Stair Builders - be they wood, iron, aluminum or any other  
compositions; Mili Men; Wood and Resilient Floor Layers and Finishers; Carpet Layers;  
Shingler; Siders; Insulators; Acoustics and Drywall Spackling of all surfaces  
where adhesive materials.are used; and all drywall pointing, taping and finishing; Shorers  
and House Movers; Loggers, Lumber aid Sawmill Workers: Furniture Workers; Reed and  
Rattan Workers; Shingle Weavers; Casket and Coffin Makers: Box Makers; Railroad  
Carpenters and Car Builders; and all those engaged in the operation of woodworking or  
other machinery required in fashioning, milling or manufacturing of products used in the  
trade or engaged as helpers to any of the above divisions or and the milling  
or manufacturing of products used in the trade or engaged as helpers to any of the above  
divisians or subdivisions, and the sandblasting, handling, erecting and installing of any  
form(s) or material in any of the above division or subdivisions of the trade, including  
burning, welding, rigging and the use of any instruments or tools for layout work  
incidental to the trade. When the term “Carpenter and Joiner” is used, it shall mean all  
the subdivisions of the trade.  
Section 4. The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of  
all its Employees (and the provisions of this Agreement shal) cover) for al) prefabrication,  
installation, erection, construction and completion of the following work, which shail be  
assigned to and perfarmed by Journeymen Lathers and Apprentices: the prefabricating,  
erecting, constructing, installing and completing of al) light iron construction, furring,  
making and erecting of brackets, clips and hangers, wood, wire and metal lath;  
plasterboard or veneer plasterboard to and which plaster-type materials are applied;  
corner beads, all floor construction; arches erected for the purpose of holding plaster,  
cement and concrete. |  
All carrying bars, purlins and furring, regardiess of size, light Iron and metal  
furring of all descriptions such as rods, channels, flat iron and natlock, screw lock,  
pomeroy, T-bar, H-bar, Z-bar, metal splines and other ceiling bars or systems for the  
receipt of metal lath, rock lath, and all light iron and metal studs, such as Stran Steel,  
Penn Metal, Soule, Truscon, or other trade names of metal ‘studs, no matter who the  
manufacturer, when such studs are:to receive metal Jath or rock lath or other material for  
the application of plaster or other sprayed on wet material; and all other light iron furring  
erected to receive lath, plaster-type materials and veneer plasterboard.  
The nailing, tying and fastening of all wiring and metallic lath such as wire cloth,  
wire mesh, expanded metal lath, hy-bid and flat expanded metal lath and wire’ of all  
descriptions as well as the placing of all hangers to support suspended ceilings or any of  
the above types of light iron and metal furring which receive lath and siestemtyps  
materials; the placing of all types of floor lath, such as hy-bid lath, paperback steeitex  
floor lath, Penn Metal! rib, etc.  
_ The tying, nailing, clipping or fastening of all types of lath, regardless of size, such  
as wood lath, plasterboard, button board, flaxilinum board, bishopric, celetex, gypsum  
lath, rock lath: or any and all other types of material erected to receive or hold plaster-  
type materials.  
The erection of all metal plastering accessories such as metal corner beads, door  
and window casing beads, metal picture mold, metal chair rail, metal base and base  
Screed, and any and all other plastering accessories which are covered and/or serve as a  
ground, guard, or screed for plaster-type materials.  
Section 5. This Internationa! Union has jurisdiction in the following work and  
such other work as it may hereinafter acquire.  
The trade or work jurisdiction of this International Union, which includes ail work  
recited in the ariginal charter of the International Association of Marble Workers granted  
from the American Federation of Labor on January 11, 1902, in addition to ali work  
included in a new charter issued to the Internationa) Association of Marble, Slate and  
Stone Polishers, Rubbers and Sawyers on February 2, 1917, in addition to all work  
in a new charter issued to the International Association of Marble, Siate and  
Stone Polishers, Rubbers and Sawyers, Tile and Marble Setters Helpers on July 21, 1921,  
in addition to all work included in a new charter issued to the International Association of  
Marble, Slate and Stone Polishers, Rubbers and Sawyers, Tile and Marbie Setters Hetpers  
on May 25, 1931, in addition to all work included in the original charter of the  
International Association of Granite Cutters granted by the decisions of the American  
Federation of Labor on November 15, 1881, and all work granted by the decislons of the  
American Federation of Labor and its affiliated departments and as a result of decisions of  
public and private tribunals and as a result of trade or area practice or as a result of  
organization and Collective Agreements historically and traditionally exercised  
py the International Union.  
a. Its Polishers and Rubbers shall polish, rub and clean all marble, stone,  
slate and glass, and all compositions and imitations that require the same process of  
finishing required in polishing, rubbing and cleaning marble, stone or slate; this work  
applies to shop and building, hand and machine.  
b. Sawyers shall run all gang, cable and diamond saws, set all blocks in  
gangs, and hammer and set all saws.  
c. Marble Finishers work shall include but not be limited to, all utility  
work, such as loading and unloading trucks and shop machines, operating cranes and  
derricks, performing ail rigging, the handling of all materials that may be needed for the  
installation of such materlais, and such work that has historically and traditionally been  
the work of the Marble Finisher.  
d. Tile Finishers work shall include but. not be limited to all cleaning,  
grouting and polishing of all tile, handting all sand, cement, lime, tile and all other similar  
materials that may be used in the installation, repair and maintenance of tile and/or  
similar materials, Finishers shall fill all joints and volds regardless of method on all tlle  
work, particularly and especially after installation of said tile work. Tile Finlshers shall  
also apply any and all protective coverings to all types of tlle installations. These types of  
protective coverings will include but not be limited to all soap compounds, all types of  
Paper products, all types of varnishes and lacquers, all types of tapes and all  
polyethylene coverings, including all new types of products that may be used for the  
protection of tile installation.  
e. The work performed by Terrazzo Finishers shall include, but not be  
limited to ail handling of sand, cement, lime terrazzo and ali other materials that may be  
used in the installation of terrazzo and all similar materials, the distribution by hand or by  
use of any power driven equipment of the above materials. Rubbing, grinding and  
Cleaning, polishing and sealing Marble Mosaic and Terrazzo floors, and wainscoating,  
curbs, steps, and base, including but not limited to Magnesite Terrazzo, Dex~o-tex  
Terrazzo, epoxy matrix terrazzo, aggregate, rustic or rough washed for exterior or  
interior of buildings placed either by machine or by hand and any other kind of mixtures  
of plastics composed of chips or granules of marble, granite, blue stane enamel, mother  
of pearl, quartz, ceramic colored quartz and rubber, neoprene, vinyl, magnesium chloride  
or any other resinous or chemical substances used for seamless flooring systems, or any  
substances therefore when run on the building by hand or machine, any new method of  
installation such as caulking and sealing with all new terrazzo material, also acid etching  
of new or old surfaces, also all priming for instalation of new materials in the installation  
of the above materials.  
f. Machine Stone Workers, Rubbers and Helpers are limited to work on  
cut stone cast and artificial stone used for exterior and construction. The work consists  
of all sawing, bed and hand rubbing, operating of cranes, tool grinding, and the handling  
to the shipping point. The work on cut cast stone consists of alt molding, mixing, pouring  
and rubbing and handling to the shipping point and tool grinding.  
g. The Cemetery Stone Handlers, Erectors and Granite Helpers include  
crane and derrick operators, hook-up men, drillers, yard and shop helpers, bed setters  
helpers, sawyers helpers, erectors, drivers, erectors helpers, who handle stone in the  
granite cutting yards and cemeteries.  
h. Granite Cutters and Polishers work shall inctude but not be timited to  
all work in the granite industry such as cutting, carving, dressing, drafting !ettering, sand  
blasting, sawing and setting all granite (natural and artificial, interior and exterior)  
bluestone and hard stone on which granite cutters tools are used. This includes from the  
roughest of street work, seam-faced and rock-faced ashlar, to the finest of moulded work  
carving, statuary machine cutting turning, rubbing, polishing or dressing, all lettering  
(hand marked and “Space Write” wherever possible), sand blasting, including work of  
preparing and placing of composition necessary, sawing and setting of any kind of granite  
(natural and artificial), bluestone, and other hard stone, on which granite cutting tools or  
machines are used, including flame burning torches and guillotines, and making up,  
sharpening or dressing said tools elther by hand or machine; all designing, drafting,  
making patterns, shop cards, diagrams used in connection with the granite industry; also  
all jointing of bluestone In building work, street work, flagging, or any other work in  
which bluestone is used, and all other workers connected with the granite industry. The  
Internatlonal Union shalt have the authority to establish additional general or special  
fa. _ -  
we LO identify and  
ct  
wt  
maintain the skills within the work jurisdictlon of the International Union.  
### ARTICLE V  
### Apprenticeship and Trajning  
Section 1. There has been established a Baltimore Carpenters Joint  
Apprenticeship and Training Fund for the purpose of training Journeymen and Apprentices  
covered by this Agreement. The Fund is governed in accordance with the terms and  
provisions of an Agreement and Declaration of Trust, which are deemed to be  
incorporated herein.  
Section 2. The terms and conditions of employment for Apprentices and the  
schooling of all Apprentices covered by this Agreement shall be determined by the  
Baltimore Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship Committee and approved by the Trustees of  
the Fund in accordance with the provisions of the governing Agreement and Declaration  
of Trust of the Apprenticeship Fund, except as provided in this Agreement.  
Section 3. Apprentices may be utilized by an Employer to the extent of a 1 to 1  
ratio, but only when approved by the Baitimore District Office.  
Section 4. All Apprentices must register with the U.S. Department of Labor,  
Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training.  
Section 5. The Employer shali hire one (1) Apprentice out of every five  
Employees covered by this Agreement. In the event that an Employer does not have 1  
Apprentice out of each 5 Employees, if the Apprentices are available, he will be required  
to hire additional Apprentices as required without discharging Journeymen working on the  
job site.  
Section 6. No Millwright Apprentice shall be required or permitted to work during  
a time which will interfere with his attendance at school. As will be noted elsewhere in  
this Article, schooling for Apprentices covered by this Agreement will be during the  
regular work day and most Apprentices will be released from work and paid by the  
Employer for the hours they are attending school. However, from time to time, some  
Apprentices will be working on shift work and will not be working during school hours.  
Those Apprentices shall have the option of working regularly at their jobs at their regular  
wages for all hours worked and attending school on their own time without receiving pay  
therefore, or taking time off fromm work on the night before, or the night of, the day the  
attend school; provided that each Apprentice shali choose which option he prefers when  
he commences such shift work and the option he chooses shall remain in effect for the  
duration of his shift work.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### Hours of Work  
Section 1. The regular work week shall be from 7:00 A.M. Monday thru 5:00 P.M.  
Friday. The regular work day is to consist of eight (8) hours. An Employer may be  
granted the right, by receiving prior written approval from the District Manager of the  
Baltimore District, to work its Employees on the basis of a four (4) day work week, each  
work day consisting of ten (10) working hours. Such a four day/ten hour work schedule  
shall be at the straight time rate of pay for work performed Monday through Thursday,  
exclusively. Except as provided in Section 3 below, in the event a four (4) day, ten (10)  
hour work schedule is utilized all work performed on Friday or Saturday will be paid at  
one and one-half {112} times the stralght time rate of pay.  
Section 2. All work performed on Sundays and Holidays will be paid at double the  
straight time rate of pay. All work performed on Saturdays and in excess of eight (8)  
hours on regular work days shall be paid at one and one-half (1%) the straight time rate  
of pay.  
Section 3. In the event an Employee is unable to work forty (40) hours in any  
given work week, excluding holidays, the following Saturday may be used as a make-up  
day. The following Friday shall be the make-up day when a four (4) day, ten (10) hour  
work schedule is being utilized provided that if Friday cannot be utitized the following  
Saturday may be used as the make-up day.  
All make-up hours worked on Saturday (up te 40 hours) shall be pald at the  
straight time rate of pay. When a make-up day is implemented, it must be scheduled for  
a minimum of elght (8) hours (ten [10] hours if a four [4) day, ten hour work  
schedule is being utilized), weather permitting.  
Section 4. Any Employee required to work during his normal lunch period shall  
be allowed time to eat later in the day, without loss of pay.  
Section 5. A ten (10) minute break shall be allowed on the job at the place of  
work between the hours of 8:30 A.M. and 10:30 A.M. each day without loss of pay. A  
break also shall be allowed on jobs which are working a night shift and such break shall  
be at the place of work and at a mutually agreeable time. It is clearly understood that  
the Supervisor on the job shall designate one Employee to service each crew,  
### ARTICLE VII  
### Overtime and Holidays  
Section 1. All work performed on Sundays and any of the following holidays shall  
be pald for at double the straight time rate of pay: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day,  
Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. In the event that  
a holiday falis on a Saturday, it shal! be observed on the Friday before the holiday. Ifa  
holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday. In no event will  
any of the above listed holidays be recognized as such more than one day per year.  
Section 2. All overtime hours, exclusive of time worked on Sundays or holidays  
shall be paid at one and one-half (142) times the straight time rate of pay.  
Section 3. When Employees are required to work in excess of two (2) hours  
overtime, a thirty-minute break, with pay, will be allowed. At the end of six (6) hours of  
overtime work, a fifteen-minute break will be allowed with pay. For each four (4) hours  
10  
thereafter Empioyees will be given fifteen minutes break time. These breaks will in no  
way result in any loss of pay to the  
Section 4. Each Employee who Is called upon to work overtime shall be given a  
rest period of eight (8) hours off from work after sixteen (16) consecutive hours on duty,  
junch breaks and rest breaks included. If an Employee is required to work overtime in  
excess of sixteen (16) consecutive hours on duty, the Employee shall be paid at the rate  
of time and one-half as provided in Section 2, above, until the Employee receives an  
eight (8) hour rest period.  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### Shift Work  
Section 1. When shift work is required, the day shift will work eight (8) hours for  
eight (8) hours pay, the swing shift will work eight (8) hours for eight (8) hours pay and  
the graveyard shift will work seven (7) hours for eight (8) hours pay. The only exception  
to this rule is upon request by an Employer and after investigation by the Baltimore  
District Office, where it is not feasible to work during normal working hours the rate of ~  
pay shall be the same as that for day work. Work will not be considered as shift work  
unless it continues for at least three (3) consecutive work days.  
Language pertaining to Millwrights only:  
When two (2) ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shifts are worked, the second shift will  
be considered the graveyard shift.  
### ARTICLE 1X  
### Wages  
Section 1. During the term of this Agreement, the straight time hourly wage rate  
for ali Journeymen Carpenters, Pile Drivers, Millwrights and Machinery Erectors who are  
covered by this Agreement shall be that specified in Appendix I to this Agreement.  
Section 2. All Carpenter, Pile Driver and Floor Layer persons who are enrolled in  
an Apprenticeship Program Plan A sponsored by the Trustees for the Baltimore  
Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund and;  
All Millwright persons who are enrolled in an Apprenticeship Program sponsored  
by the Trustees of the Baltimore Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund, shall  
be paid as follows: :  
11  
1" Year of Apprenticeship - 50% of the wage set as in Appendix I, Schedule C  
of this Agreement. It is agreed that no pension or severance and annulty fringe benefit  
payment or vacation deduction shall be made on 1* year Apprentices.  
2" year of. Apprenticeship - 60% of the wage set as in Appendix I, Schedule C  
of this Agreement.  
3" Year of Apprenticeship - 70% of the wage set as in Appendix I, Schedule Cc  
of this Agreement.  
4" Year of Apprenticeship - 85% of the wage set as in Appendix I, Schedule C  
of this Agreement.  
All Carpenter, Pile Driver and Floor Layer Persons who are enrolled in  
Apprenticeship Program Plan B, sponsored by the Trustees of the Baltimore Carpenters  
Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund, shail be paid as follows in Appendix I, Schedule  
C, to this Agreement.  
| Section 3. During the term of this Agreement, Corenter Foremen be paid  
one dollar ($1.00) per hour more than Journeyman hourly rates set forth in Appendix I,  
Schedule A, of this Agreement as their straight time hourly wage rate and shalt] be  
guaranteed forty (40) hours of pay per week, Including holidays, provided that they  
report for work on working days and also provided that the job lasts five (5) days or  
more. If a job ends before the last day of a normal work week, the foreman will be paid  
only for hours worked during that week. Millwright Foreman shall be paid one dollar and  
twenty-five cents ($1.25) per hour more than the Journeyman hourly rates set forth in  
Appendix I, Schedule B for Millwrights.  
Section 4. During the term of this Agreement, Carpenter General Foreman shall  
be paid two dollars ($2.00) per hour more than the Journeyman hourly wage rate set  
forth in Appendix I, Schedule A of this Agreement as their straight time hourly wage rate  
and shali be guaranteed forty (40) hours per week including holidays, provided that they  
report to work on working days and also provided that the job lasts for five (5) days or  
more. If a job ends before the jast day of a normal work week, the foreman will be paid  
only for hours worked during that week. Millwright General Foreman shall be paid two  
12  
dollars and twenty-five cents ($2.25) per hour more than the Journeyman hourly rates  
set forth in Appendix I, Schedule B for Millwrights.  
Sectlon 5. Whenever the work force on a job exceeds thirty (30) Employees  
(excluding Foremen) who are covered by this a general foreman shall be  
designated by the Employer.  
### ARTICLE X  
### Stewards  
Section 1. The Baltimore District shall place and replace Stewards on all jobs at  
its discretion. A Steward shall not be permitted to act as a foreman, general foreman or  
other Supervisor; nor shall a Steward receive any wage or other compensation other than  
that provided for under the terms of this Agreement. A Steward must be a member in  
good standing in the Union. The Employer shall report the starting or restarting of each  
job to the Baltimore District Office before starting to work, so that the Union may have  
adequate time to place a Steward.  
Section 2. The Steward shall remain on the job all hours that carpentry work is  
being performed. If a job is shut down, he shall be the first person reemployed. He shall  
be allowed sufficient time to perform his duties as prescribed in the General Working  
Rules of the Union. He shall not be discharged because of his activities In enforcing the  
Union’s Rules. A Business Representative must be notified and.consulted in all instances  
before a Steward is removed from the job. The Steward must be a competent mechanic  
for the classifications of carpentry work to which he is assigned, otherwise he is subject  
to discharge in which event his vacancy as Steward shail be filled by a Business  
Representative.  
Section 3. It shail be the duty of ail Stewards to examine the work cards of  
performing work covered by this Agreement.  
Section 4. Should any Employee be taken sick or meet with an accident while  
working on any job, the Steward shail take care of his tools during his absence and notify  
the office of the Union at once regarding the incident. Any loss of time or other expenses  
incurred by the Steward must be pald by the Employer, if found to be correct,  
13  
### ARTICLE XI  
### Employer’s Responsibilities  
Section 1. All Employers will be required to furnish an ample waterproof tool  
house, to be used exclusively by Employees covered by this Collective Bargaining  
Agreement, properly locked, as suitable quarters for Employees to eat their Junches in  
and to keep their clothes in; the same to be heated in winter months, The Employer  
shall provide on or near the job suitable sanitary toilets In accordance with the laws of  
the Board of Health. Ice water is to be furnished by the Employer from April 1* to  
November 1*, and individual cups to be furnished by the Employer, also water on the job  
at all times.  
Section 2. The Employer shall relmburse each Employee for any of his tools or  
clothing which are destroyed on the project site by fire or other acts of God or which,  
while the project is not operating, are stolen by forced entry on the project site. A forced  
entry shall be reported by the Steward within thirty (30) minutes after starting time.  
Provided that the Employer has complied with the above Rule, or designated another  
area, he shalt be liable for an Employee's loss only if it occurs while such tolls or clothing  
are in the tool shed or tool room or other designated area. Each Employee shall furnish  
the Employer or his agent with a properly sworn statement of Joss within forty-eight (48)  
hours. The Employer shall make reimbursement within one (1) week after receiving a  
sworn statement of loss. The Employer’s liability shall be limited to not more than  
$800.00 for any single loss of or injury to tools. It is the Employer’s responsibility to post  
a reasonable list of personal hand tools in a conspicuous place on the jobsite. Each  
Journeyman Carpenter employed on that jobsite will be expected to furnish the hand  
tools on the posted list. The Employer may periodically update the list, provided it is  
done in a reasonable manner. In the replacement of personal hand tools which are  
destroyed or stolen, the Employer will only be responsible for the replacement of those  
tools which are on the posted list.  
Section 3. Any Employee working in water or foul weather must be furnished  
with suitable wearing apparel to keep dry by the Employer, without any cost to the  
Employee. Such apparel shall be checked out to the Employees by the Employer. All  
Employees shall be responsible for apparel that is checked out to them.  
14  
Section 4. Employees shall have sufficient time to place their tools in the shed or  
designated area before quitting time.  
Section 5. When Employees are required to wear safety equipment such as hard  
hats and liners, life jackets, safety glasses, etc., the Employer shall furnish such safety  
equipment to Employees, without any cost to the Employees. Such equipment shall be  
checked out to the Employees by the Employer. All Employees shall be responsible for  
the equipment that is checked out to them.  
Section 6. The Employer shall replace (or reimburse the Employee in full so that  
he or she may replace) any eyeglasses, contact lenses, or artificial eyes, teeth, or limbs  
that are damaged or destroyed and are required to be repaired or replaced, if such  
damages or destruction occurred during the course of the perFormance of his  
or her job and accompanied by a sworn statement of repair or replacement cost is  
presented.  
Section 7. Any Employee injured on a job during the course of a regular work  
day, to the extent that makes it impossible for him to complete the regular work day,  
shall be paid for the entire regular work day at his straight time hourty rate. If, however,  
an Employee is physically able to return to work but fails to return to work, he shall not  
be entitled to any compensation under this Section.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### General Working Rules  
Section 1. All Employees must be paid United States currency before quitting  
time on the regular payday, weekly. If, however, the Employees are requested to go to  
the office or shop of the Employer for their money, enough time shail be allowed during  
the requiar working hours to go to said office or shop. Employees wha fail to receive  
their wages on the regular weekly payday shall immediately notify the Business  
Representative assigned to the project on which the work was performed, or the  
Baltimore District Office. A Business Representative shall proceed at once to collect all-  
unpaid wages as well as waiting time up to the time of collection, provided, however, that  
the aggrieved Employees have not accepted any part of the wages due them and have  
15  
reported the case to a Business Representative or to the Baltimore District Office on or  
before four p.m. (4:00 P.M.) of the payday involved.  
Section 2. Employers. may pay off by checks provided they pay one hours’ pay to  
each affected Employee at the straight time rate of pay, except Government checks .and  
checks of any Employer whose credit has previously been established to the satisfaction  
of the Union are exempt. The Employer may withhold no more than three (3) day’s  
wages due to Employees to enable the Employer to prepare the- payroll.  
Section 3. All Employees working on outside jobs when required to call at the  
shop in the morning for (umber or other materials, or the making of miter boxes, saw  
benches, filing saws, or sharpening of any tools must strictly observe the eight (8) hours  
provided for in Article VI. Employees will not leave job shack or gang box until start of  
shift.  
lovar chal! hire lahorers or other crafts to do any work  
involving the use of Carpenter tools or machinery or allow them to do any cutting,  
bracing, shoring or any other work covered by this Agreement (as defined in Article IV) in  
accordance ‘with of the National Joint Board or Agreements of the International  
Union.  
Section 5. All Foremen and General Foremen must show their work cards to the  
Steward when called upon to do so.  
Section 6. The first man employed ona job shall report the starting of the job to  
the Baltimore District Office before starting to work.  
Section 7. If any overtime is required, the Employer shal! offer each Employee  
who is assigned to that job site an opportunity to work the overtime before any other  
Employees of that Company are brought in from another job site.  
Section 8. No Employee shall accept less than the minimum rate of wages, nor  
shall he return or rebate any part of his wages to his Employer or any person  
representing said Employer. No Employee shall refuse to. show his pay slip to a Business  
Representative or Job Steward when requested to do so.  
Section 9. No Employer, Foreman or Employee shall ask for or receive any  
money or presents from Employees in his employ or about to be employed,  
16  
Section 10. No Employee shall refuse to show his Work Card to a Business  
Representative or Job Steward when called upon to do so. When checking cards, the  
Business Representative or Steward must present a Union Card when requested.  
Section 11. No Employee shall be allowed to furnish any patented or iron miter  
boxes, bench clamps, hand screws, metal saw clamps, power tools, high speed drill bits,  
taps, or jevei 4 feet and over or instruments on any job or shop.  
Section 12. No Union Representative of the United Brotherhood shall be denied  
permission by the Employer to go on any job, store, new or old building, dock, wharf,  
boat or pier or any other site where Employees covered by this Agreement are working.  
The Representative shall notify the Timekeeper or other Employer Representative  
immediately upon arrival at the job site. |  
Section 13. Any Employee being laid-off shati receive pay in full no later than the  
end of the normal working day. The Employee shall work until quitting time.  
Section 14. Certificatian or evidence is required that Representatives of the  
Union who visit jobs are protected by proper insurance and certificate of same shall be  
filed with the Employer's Office. |  
Section 15. The and the Steward on the job shall datermine if the  
weather is fit for the men to work, except for emergencies or undercover work, When  
undercover work can be provided for only part of the working crew, areangentiénts must  
be made on a rotating basis to provide equa! earning opportunity for all Employees who  
are engaged in that type of work for which undercover work is available.  
Section 16. Employees handling creosoted materlal or working in chemical  
plants, plants, or simitar will be furnished protective clothing by the  
Employer when required,  
mection 17. Welders and burners shall be furnished with strikers, goggles,  
gloves, and safety equipment by the Employer when required.  
Section 18. If an determines that a hardware root is necessary on the  
job, a Carpenter who resides within the territorial jurisdiction of the Union shall be in  
charge of it.  
17  
Section 19. Any Employer whose credit has been previously established to the  
satisfaction of the Union may, at it’s option, post a lay-off check addressed to the  
Employee’s home address in the U.S. Mail to be postmarked no later than the next  
business day after lay-off. Fallure to timely post the check as outlined above will be  
grounds for a grievance as outlined in Article XIII, Section 3.  
### ARTICLE XIII  
### No Strike Clause - Grievances and Arbitration  
Section 1. During the term of this Agreement and any renewals or extension  
hereof, the Union shali not engage in, sanction or condone any work stoppage or work  
disruption on any job in which any Contractor bound by this Agreement is engaged,  
whether by strike, slow down or other disruptive practice, except as provided in Section  
. 11 of Article XXIII of this Agreement, and the Contractor shall not engage in any lockout.  
Section 2. The Union or International Union shall not be responsible for any  
strike action taken in violation of this Article provided the officiais of the Union ana  
International Union have made every effort to return the Employees to work.  
Section 3. A grievance is a dispute between the Union and the Employer and/or  
any Employee covered by this Agreement and an Employer concerning the interpretation,  
application or administration of any provision of this Agreement. Any grievance that may  
arise under this Agreement shall be handled in a manner that is consistent with the  
following procedure:  
STEP 1. A grievance may be Initiated by the Union, Employer or an Employee,  
with or without the assistance of the Union. If submitted by Employee, the grievance  
must be submitted to the Employee's immediate Supervisor either orally or In writing.  
STEP 2. If not resolved between an Employee and his immedlate Supervisor, or if  
initiated by the Union, a grievance shall be discussed between a Business Representative  
of the Union and a representative of the Employer involved, with authority to act, after a  
written grievance is filed and in any event within two (2) days after a written request is  
received for a meeting.  
Any grievance that is filed at this STEP 2 more than thirty (30) calendar days  
after the date on which the reason for the grievance occurred shall be considered  
untimely and shall not be processed. Any grievance which is brought to this STEP 2 by  
18  
any Employee covered by this Agreement, rather than by the Union itself, must be filed in  
writing with the District Manager of the Union within fifteen (15) calendar days after the  
date on which the reason for the grievance occurred, and unless such grievance is timely  
filed, in writing, with the District Manager of the Union within fifteen (15) catendar days  
after the date on which the reason for the grievance occurred, It shall be considered  
untimely and shall not be processed.  
### STEP 3.  
a. Should any grievance not be resolved in STEP 2, then the grievance may be  
taken by the Union, the Employer or both to a permanent Committee consisting of no  
less than two (2) persons appointed by the Maryland Chapter of the Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc. (the “Labor Relations Division”) and no less than two (2)  
persons appointed by the Union. At the written request of any member of the  
Committee, the Union or an Employer subject to this Agreement, the Committee shall  
meet within ten (10) working days of receipt of such written request, unless such time  
period is extended by written Agreement between the Chairman and Secretary of the  
Committee. Written notice of the time, date and place of the grievance meeting shall be  
given by the Committee by regular mail. The notice shall be mailed to the Union and the  
Contractor at the Party’s last known office address. Once mailed to the fast known office  
address, the notice shall be sufficient to require attendance of the Party.  
b. It shall be the function of the Committee to attempt to resolve any dispute  
involving the application or interpretation of any provision of the Agreement which is  
presented to it by written request to meet. Any decision made by the Committee  
inctuding the assessment, awarding of damages, shall be permanently recorded and  
uniformly applied by the Union and all Employers subject to this Agreement. It is  
understood that this Committee will in no way participate in any attempt to solve  
jurisdictional disputes.  
c. The Cammittee is authorized to decide all grievances presented to it, and it is  
to fashion an appropriate remedy for any breach of contract that it may find. The  
Committee may require the participants to produce business records which, in the  
judgment of the Committee, pertain to the dispute so that the records may be examined  
19  
by the Committee. If by a vote of Its members, the Committee either sustains or denies  
a grievance, then the Committee’s decision shall be final and binding on the Union, the  
Employer and the Labor Relations Divislon with no further right of appeal or arbitration.  
If the Committee deadlocks or Is otherwlse unable to decide a grievance after a grievance  
meeting is conducted before it, then a grievance may proceed to the next step, STEP 4,  
Arbitration.  
### STEP 4.  
a. In the event the Committee cannot resolve a dispute within five (5) working  
days from the beginning of its meeting, or if the Committee fails or refuses to meet  
within the time period set forth above, either the Employer involved in the dispute or the  
Union, but only the Employer involved or the Union, may submit the matter to arbitration  
by written notice to the other party, provided said notice is given within five (5) working  
days after either o ove-descrihed five (5) working days. Within five working  
days after said notice of arbitration is given, the Employer involved and the Union shall  
appoint a mutually acceptable Arbitrator to hear and determine the dispute,  
b. If either the Employer involved or the Union fails or refuses to cooperate in  
appointing an Arbitrator within said five (5) working days, or if the parties are unable to  
agree upon an Arbitrator within said five (5) working days, or if the mutually agreeable  
Arbitrator cannot hear and determine the dispute within ten (10) work days after his  
appointment, either the Employer involved or the Union may apply to the Federal  
Mediation and: Conciliation Service (FMCS) for a list of seven (7) Arbitrators. The list  
requested from FMCS is to be limited to Arbitrators assigned to FMCS Area No. 7 (or its  
successor region as determined by the FMCS) who are members of the National Academy  
of Arbitrators. An Arbitrator shall be chosen within twenty-four (24) hours of receipt of  
the FMCS list, by each party alternately striking names until one (1) name remains. The  
Arbitrator so chosen shall hear and determine the dispute within thirty (30) calendar days  
from the date of his appointment, if at all possible, and the parties shall cooperate in  
every way necessary to assist the Arbitrator in facilitating the disposition of the matter.  
c. It is understood and agreed that if either the Employer involved or the Union  
fails or refuses to cooperate in selecting an Arbitrator from the list submitted to the  
20  
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service in strict compliance with the procedure set  
forth above, the other party may unllaterally select an Arbitrator from such list submitted  
by the Federal Mediation and Service and, provided that written notice of  
such selection and the date, time and place of hearing is given to the refusing party, said  
Arbitrator, even though unilaterally selected, is hereby granted the authority to hear and  
determine the dispute and his decision shall be final and binding as if both parties had  
fully as allowed hereunder whether or not one of them fails to do so.  
Section 4. The fee and expense of any arbitration proceeding shall be shared  
equally by the Employer involved and the Union and his decision shail be final and  
binding on both parties.  
Section 5. It is understood and agreed that in the event either the Joint  
Grievance Committee or the Arbitrator decides that the Employer involved or the Union  
has violated any of the provisions of this Agreement, the Committee or the Arbitrator  
may prescribe any relief which it/she/he deems appropriate, Including damages and  
injunctive relief of a cease and desist or other nature. Either party may seek appropriate  
judicial relief to enforce the ruling of either the Joint Grievance Committee or of the  
Arbitrator,  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### Rules to Foremen  
And General Foremen Generally  
Section 1. When three or more Employees covered by this Agreement are  
employed on any job, a Foreman must be designated. There must be a Foreman  
employed for each fifteen (15) Employees covered by this Roreement. In selection of a  
foreman, preference shall be given to qualified Employees who are regularly employed  
within the geographical territory covered by this Agreement as described in Article ITI.  
Section 2. Whenever the work force on a job exceeds thirty (30) Employees  
(excluding Foremen) who are covered by this Agreement, a General Foreman shall be  
designated by the Employer.  
Section 3. The Employer shail make all of the fringe benefit payments required in  
Article XXIII of this Agreement on behalf of each of it Superintendents who elects in  
writing to be covered by all of the fringe benefit programs provided for In Article XXIII of  
21  
this Agreement in lieu of any other benefits which are or may be provided by his  
Employer. The Union dues check-off provided in Article XXII of this Agreement shall be  
afforded to any Superintendent who is a member of the Union.  
Section 4. In the event of any type of work stoppage, the Employer shail be able  
to designate one Foreman, General Foreman or Superintendent, who is presently  
employed on the project, as a Management Representative to remain on the job to  
protect management's interests, however, not to perform any work functions as set forth  
in this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### Special Rules Governing Pile Drivers  
Pile Drivers are covered and governed by ail of the foregoing and succeeding  
Sections and Articles of this Agreement. In additlon, the following specia) rules and  
provisions shall apply to the employment of Pile Drivers:  
Section 1. All of the following work shaif be pertormed by Pile Orivers:  
a. Bridge, dock and wharf building. The driving and pulling of piles, whether of  
wood, concrete, steel, composite or molded in place. In mucking out cofferdams and  
trench work where steel pillng Is used, a Pile Driver signa!man must be used as lookout.  
b. All piles used in foundation and bridge, dock, wharf building work and all work,  
steel and concrete sheeting. H-Beams, driving and pulling of same; loading and  
unloading, handling, burning and welding, and cutting off, lining, capping, bracing of all  
cradles and inclines of timbers where piling is used whether of wood, steel or concrete,  
composite or molded in place, taking soundings and sinking of all wood, steel, or concrete  
piling or sheeting, whether temporary or permanent, also calssons and excavating of  
caissons.  
c. The erection of, and rigging, dismantling, handling of aff rigs and equipment  
pertaining to pile driving is to be handled by Pile Drivers. Handling of pile driving  
machines on site of work and on storage yards, the handling of all derricks and pile  
driving machinery from rajlroad yards, store houses, to and from jobs must be handled  
by Pile Drivers.  
d. Ail work involving the uplift bar or hook bar as stabilizer for pile, and the  
welding thereof.  
22  
   
@. Pile Drivers shall be used to operate all pressure purnps and gauges for the  
purpose of testing during the entire time testing of piling is being done and all machinery  
used in the handling of spuds or anchors on floating equipment pertaining to Pile Driver  
work,  
f. Pile Drivers will be used to handle all lines on derricks and are to be used as  
winchmen or spoolmen when a deckhand is employed aboard a tug, barge or other vessel  
assisting Pile Drivers.  
g. On all cofferdam work or water ways, the handling and placing of tremie  
concrete seal and all necessary rigging shall be the work of the Pile Driver.  
h. All burning and welding oxyacetylene or electric pertaining to all pile work shall  
be the work of the Pite Driver.  
f. All precast concrete work connected with piling, including prestressing,  
poststressing, and precasting of all on job site shall be the wark of the Pile  
Driver.  
j. All onsite repairs of all Pile Driving Rigs land or water, barges or scowls shall be  
the work of the Pile Driver. This includes ail hammers, regardless of their means of  
power, and the splicing and handling of all lines.  
k. Atl] work or operations in pre-pak operations and all tremie pour  
operations and all work or operations involved in any new systems or methods or  
substitutions regarding the above mentioned work, shall be the work of the Pife Driver.  
1, Ail new and old work on docks and piers, to the Inshore line of bulkhead, from  
the backing jog down, including the decking and forms for same, shall be the work of the  
Pile Driver,  
m. They shall make and set all concrete forms from cellar bottom and column  
base in cellar bottom down, trestles and shoring work including ties and guard rails, shall  
be the work of the Pile Driver,  
m. All work connected with concrete as bracing against water and earth pressures,  
shall be the work of the Pile Driver.  
Section 2. The crew for any land or water rig will be established by the Employer  
and Baltimore District consistent with safe practice.  
23  
Section 3. Crew members-employed as welders will perform with the crew when  
not welding. When welding for an entire shift, a welder will be hired in addition to  
required crew size, -  
Section 4. Stewards on pile driving rigs shall be governed by the provisions of  
Article X.  
Section 5. No group of Foremen shall constitute a working crew for the purpose  
of operating a rig, in the absence of mechanics.  
Sectlon 6. The Employer shall furnish boots and other foul weather gear where  
conditions require them.  
Section 7. Employees handling creasoted materials wil! be furnished protective  
clothing by the Employer when required.  
Section 8. Notwithstanding provisions of Section 4, Article VI, the Employer may  
require Emnioyees working under this Article to work eight (8) consecutive hours  
(exclusive of lunch period) between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. where the tide  
is a deciding factor in the progress of the work.  
Section 9. On all Rigs, the Employee who is employed as the monkey will receive  
$,50 per hour in addition to the Journeyman rate when working aloft.  
Section 10. There shall be a Pile Driver employed on each drilling rig.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### Special Rules Governing  
Millwrights and Machinery Erectors  
Millwrights and Machinery Erector$.are covered and governed by all of the  
foregoing and succeeding Sections and Articles of this Agreement. In addition, the  
following special rules and provisions shall apply to the employment of Millwrights and  
Machinery Erectors:  
Section 1. The term “Millwrights and Machinery Erectors” shalf mean the  
unjoading, hoisting, rigging, skidding, moving, dismantling, aligning, erecting,  
assembling, repairing, maintenance and adjusting of all machinery and equipment  
installed either in building, factories, structures, processing areas either undercover,  
underground, or elsewhere, required to process material, handling, manufacturing or  
servicing; be it powered or receiving power manually, by steam, gas, electric, gasoline,  
24  
diesel, nuclear, solar, water, air or chemically, and in industries such as and including  
which are identified for the purpose of description, but not limited to the fallowlng:  
wood-working plants, canning industries, steel, coffee-roasting plants, paper and pulp,  
cellophane, stonecrushing, gravel and sand washing and handling, asphalt plants,  
sewerage disposal, water plants, laundry, bakery, mixing plants, can, bottle and bag  
packag!ng plants, textile mills, paint mills, breweries, milk processing plants, power  
plants, aluminum processing or manufacturing plants, amusement and entertainment  
field. Installation of mechanical equipment in atomic energy plants, installation of  
reactors in power plants, Installation of control rods and equipment in reactors,  
installation of mechanical equipment in rocket missile bases, launches, launching gantry,  
floating bases, hydraulic escape doors and any and all component parts thereto either  
assembled, semi-assembled or dismantled.  
The installation of but not limited to the following: setting of all engines, motors,  
generators, air-compressors, fans, scales, hoppers, conveyors, of all types, size and their  
Supports, escalators, man-lifts, moving sidewalks, hoists, dumbwaiters, ail types of  
feeding and machinery amusement devices, mechanical pin-setters and spotters in  
bowling alleys, refrigeration equipment, and the handling and installation -of pulleys,  
gears, sheaves, fly-wheels, air and vacuum drives, worm drives, and gear drives directly  
or indirectly coupled to motors, belts, chains, screws, legs, boot guards, boot tanks, ail  
bin valves, turn heads and indicators, shafting, bearing cable sprockets, cutting of all key  
seats in new and old work, troughs, chippers, filters, calendars, rolls, winders, rewinders,  
cutters, wrapping machines, blowers, forging machines, rams hydraulic or  
otherwise, planning, extruder, ball, dust collectors, equipment in most packaging plants,  
splicing of ropes and cables.  
The laying out, fabricating and installation of protection equipment including  
machinery guards, making and setting of templates for machines, fabrication of boits,  
nuts, pans, drilling of holes for any equipment which the Millwrights install regardless of  
materials, all welding and burning regardless of type, fabrication of ail lines, hose or  
tubing used in lubricating machinery installed by Millwrights, grinding, cleaning, servicing,  
25  
and machine work necessary for any part of any equipment installed by the Millwrights,  
and the breaking In and trial of any equipment or machinery installed by the Millwrights.  
‘Section 2. All of the following work shall be performed by Millwrights:  
a, Unloading, hoisting, dismantling, erecting, assembling, JIning and adjusting of  
ali machines, shafting, hangers, gears, sprockets and chains, belting, and all other drives  
necessary to the transmission of power.  
b. Setting of all motors and putting on all pulleys, sheaves, and fly wheels for  
same and Setting of all worm drives or gear drives directly coupled to motors,  
c. All coal handling machinery and drives, crushers, conveyors, drags, whether  
the frames be steel or wood, and all necessary support shall be assembled by Millwrights,  
except such as are ta be fastened by hot rivets, The framing and driiling of all wood  
hoppers or boxes and guldes, all patent stockers and automatic feeding devices as  
Nanudiing macninery cither or conveying.  
d. Stone crushing and gravel washing plants, crushers, screens, revolving or  
eccentric, rolls, pan conveyors, belt, chain, or screw, whether boxes be steel, Iron or  
wood. The assembling of all tramrail, monorails, cranes or all travelers where no hot  
rivets are used in assembling same. Setting all beams for timbers used in the reception  
of machinery and drilling all holes necessary for foundations whether they be wood or  
steel, stone, concrete or other materials, whether ratchet or power drilling be used.  
e. All grain handling appliances, cleaners, chippers, needle machines, car pullers,  
grain shovels. The manufacture and erection of wood legs, spouts and conveyor boxes,  
erection of al) steel and/or cast iron legs, heads, or boots and conveyor boxes, framing of  
all marine legs and ship shovels, framing of all scale timbers. Setting of all scales, track  
hopper or automatic, all boot tanks, receiving hoppers and devices used for elevator legs  
when not of electrical appliances.  
f. All bin valves, turnheads and indictors, all necessary shafting and bearings and  
supports, all drives, rope belt, chain, or rawhide, all pulleys, cable sprockets or gearing  
and cutting all keyseats in new and old work in the field.  
g. Sewerage disposal machinery and coffee roasting plant.  
26  
h. All amusement devices of all kind, all barrel or package devices either elevating  
or conveying, all presses hydraulic or otherwise.  
i, All direct or connected machinery of any power hoists and meat handling, all  
spice, or flour or cereal mills, or cotton, wool, silk, twine, paper, steel, saw, cement,  
planning, powder and paint mills, machine or woodworking shops or factories, jewelry  
and powerhouse machinery, sugar refineries, power houses, bakeries, fertilizers,  
breweries, shoe factories, all ice plants and equipment, ice cream factories and laundries,  
knitting mifis and power sewing machines. all work pertaining to evolution of  
time and this craft will come under this jurisdictional claim.  
Section 3. Special Millwright Rules  
a, Safety Equipment. All safety equipment shail be furnished by the Employer.  
When a Millwright is required to weld and burn, he shall be furnished with welding  
sleeves, aprons, gloves, shield, brush, hammer, burning goggies, striker and flash  
glasses when necessary.  
b. Inoculations. The Employer shail pay the cost of inoculations to prevent  
communicable disease for any Employee who, when engaged to work at sewage disposal  
and similar installations, requests inoculation.  
c. Steward. Millwrights have their own Steward. Article X shall apply as to the  
selection and other rules applicable to Stewards.  
d. No Empioyee shall be allowed to furnish dial Indicators, micrometers over one  
inch, inside micrometers, shaft levels over 12 inches, socket wrenches over ¥2 inch drive,  
socket or any wrench over one inch, crescent wrenches over 12 inches, files, taps, and  
drill bits for drilling steel. This equipment shall be checked out to the Employee. No  
Employer shall lease, rent or otherwise utilize tools owned by Employees in his employ  
and no Employee covered by this Agreement shail lease, rent or otherwise allow his toots  
to be utilized by his Employer.  
e. Clean Up. Millwrights shall be allowed ample time each day to clean up and.  
put tools away before quitting time.  
f. Tool] Room Man. When a tool room man is needed, he shall be a Miltwright  
and Millwrights shall not accept tools and Millwright equipment from any other craft.  
27  
g. Alignment. On all initial alignment-installation jobs, such as precision (dial  
indicator) installation of pumps, motors, compressors,.- fans and similar types of  
alignment-installation work, at least two (2) Millwrights shall be employed. .  
Section 4. Other Work Rules  
a. Conveyors. The entire installation. of ali package: handting conveyors is the  
work of the Millwrights. This includes all necessary hangers, legs, and supports required  
for the installation:  
. b. Screw Conveyors. The entire installation, including hangers and saddles, is  
the work of the Millwrights. é ' 4  
c. Bucket Type Conveyor. The entire instaflation of the internal parts and head  
and tai) section parts will be installed by the Millwrights.  
Where sections of casing or housing are erected manually, the assembly and  
rection of such sections is the work of the Millwrights.:  
d. Bulk Materia! Handling Conveyors. The erection and installation -and  
alignment of idlers, saddles and moving parts of all buik material handling conveyors is  
the work of the Millwrights.  
Bulk material handling conveyors, the erection and installation of head and tail  
pulley units, including idlers and saddles, bearings, gears, gear boxes, machinery guards,  
sprockets, chains, motor coupling belts, all rubber or fabric skirts, curtains and sampling  
equipment is the work of the Millwrights.  
Bulk materiaf conveyors, the Agreement covers the types of conveyor used to  
handle iron ore, coal, cement, gravel and similar-bulk. materials. The type of bulk  
material -handiing conveyors which .requires no supporting framework is the work of the  
Millwrights in its entirety.  
. If the head, tail and take-up sections of a bulk material handling conveyor arrives  
on the job site completely assembled, the complete installation of these units shall be  
performed by Millwrights, ‘including the erection of counter weight guides, counter  
weights, cables, erection of the protective expanded metal guard, any refabrication,  
installation .af the drive unit for the -head pulley, installation of any wiper blades on the  
head or tail sections.  
28  
e. Scales. The installation, alignment, and leveling of all.scales:is the work of the  
  
f. Anchoring of Bulk Handling. The anchoring of bulk. handling conveyors is the  
work of the Millwrights.  
g. Rigging Beams. The installation of all rigging beams is the work  
Millwrights.  
A rigging beam shall be defined as a beam that supports a hoisting device used  
solely for repairing, servicing and perlodic inspections of. mechanical equipment and  
machinery.  
1 4  
h. Protective Screen and Metal Guards. The erection of protective s screen or  
metal guards in connection with monorails is the work of the Millwrights. The erection of  
protective screen or metai guards in connection with package conveyors | is the work of  
the Millwrights. | |  
The erection of protective screen guards on all is the work of the  
Millwrights, | | |  
All machinery guards are the Work of the Millwrights.  
The erection of protective s screen or metal guards on monorails is the work of the  
Miltwrights. All headers, hanger rods, or whatever material is necessary to install’ or erect  
the guard is the work of the Millwrights.  
i. Air Slide Conveyors. Millwrights will attach sections together and assemble  
gates, and install supports & nangets wherever necessary.  
j. Rails. Rails carrying mechanically activated equipment geared, cable,  
pneumatic or hydraulic, shall be aligned, leveled and secured by Millwrights.  
k. Rigaing. After the package machinery or package equipment has been brought  
from the point of unloading or from the storage area to the point of final installation or to  
a temporary holding point, al moving and handling by any means required to complete  
the shall be the work of the Millwrights.  
I. Power Rigging. Rigging by any means during the cleaning, turning,  
fitting and assembling of the components and to make the inal installation sal] be the  
work of the Millwrights.  
29  
The rigging work required in the cleaning and subassembly area shall be  
performed by the Millwrights,  
m. Lubricating Systems. Lubricating systems which arrive on the job site  
prefabricated by the manufacturer or furnished by the manufacturer are to be installed by  
the Millwrights.  
The filling of all lubrication lines is the work of the Millwrights.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### Rules Pertaining to  
Millwright and Machinery Erectors  
Foremen and General Foremen  
Section 1. When three (3) or more Millwrights or Machinery Erector Employees  
who are covered by this Agreement aré employed on any job, a Foreman must be  
designated. A Foreman shall be designated for each ten (10) Millwrights or Machinery  
Erector Employees covered by this Agreement. In the selection of Foremen, preference  
shall be given to the qualified Employees who are reguiariy empioyed within ihe  
geographical territory covered by this Agreement as described in Article III.  
Section 2. At the time a second Foreman is designated to supervise the  
Millwrights or Machinery Erectors, a General Foreman shall also be assigned.  
Section 3. Millwright Foremen and Millwright General Foremen shali be paid an  
additional amount as stated in Article IX §§ 3 & 4 and in Appendix I - Schedule B of this  
### Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### Special Rules Governing Divers and Tenders  
Divers and Tenders are covered and governed by all of the aforegoing and  
succeeding Sections and Articles of this Agreement with the following exceptions:  
Section 1. Instead of the wages provided for in Appendix I and Jn Article IX,  
Section 1 of this Agreement, the straight time wage rates for Divers per eight-hour day  
shall be $294.00 per day.  
Section 2. In the event a Diver is required to work overtime, he shall be paid a  
minimum of two (2) hours and one and one-half (1'/2) times the straight time rate. (This  
rate is based on furnishing of gear and equipment by the Employer.)  
30  
Section 3. The Tender’s basic wage shall be the same as the Dock Builder or Pile  
Diver on a daily basis of eight (8) hours and his working conditions shall be the same as  
the Diver he is attending.  
Section 4, The Diver and Tender shall be pald a minimum of one (1) day if they  
work any part of a day. In the event that diving work is temporarily suspended, they  
shall be retained as Employees at the Journeyman Dock Builder or Pile Driver  
classification rate.  
Section 5. The Diver wage rates set in Section 1 of this Article apply to footage  
up to 60 feet. With greater depth, the wage of a Diver shall increase as follows:  
From 60 to 70 feet $15.00 extra per day  
From 70 to 80 feet $20.00 extra per day  
From 80 to 90 feet $25.00 extra per day  
From 90 to 100 feet $30.00 extra per day  
For 100 feet or over, the Diver shall negotiate his own daily wage subject to  
approval in writing by the Baltimore District.  
Section 6. Gear and Rental. When the Diver furnishes his own gear, he shail  
receive additional compensation as follows:  
$30.00 per day for suit and hetmet (8 hours}  
$40.00 per day for compressor (8 hours)  
Section 7. The Diver shall select his own Tender.  
Section 8. Skin Divers who furnish full gear shall be paid $30.00 per day extra,  
Section 9. Tank time shall be paid by the Emptoyer when the tank is used, and  
Tenders shall be in fulf attendance at all times. All safety precautions must be observed  
at all times. _  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### Specific Projects  
a. Should the Union offer lower wage rates, lower benefits or other concessions  
on any job through a Project Agreement, the Union shall offer those terms on equal basis  
to all signatory Contractors by first notifying the Labor Retations Division at Jeast.  
seventy-two (72) hours in advance. The Union‘s sole obligation in this regard shall be to  
notify the Labor Relations Division in writing of the job by tocation and name.  
31  
b. The Union may not change or reduce the CIAP contribution that is due for any  
Carpenter Employees who are covered under a Project Agreement without securing the  
prior written consent of the Labor Relations Division.  
c. No Project Agreement will be granted on Union-funded on Unlon-only jobs with  
the exception that any signatory Contractors are not capable or are willing to bid on  
these projects. |  
### ARTICLE XX  
### Contracting and Subcontracting  
On any site of construction, alteration, or repair of a building, structure or other  
work, the Emptoyer shal! not sublet, assign or otherwise contract or subcontract out any  
work which is this Agreement on a particular job site covered by this  
Agreement to any person, firm, corporation, Contractor, Employer or association unless  
Said person, firm, corporation, Contractor, Employer or association is signatory to a  
Collective Agreement with a bona fide Union and the covered by  
said Agreement enjoy wages, hours. and other conditions of employment equivalent to  
those set forth in this Agreement. This Article shall be suspended during the pendency of  
any administrative or legal proceeding in which its invalidity is asserted. It is the  
intention of the Employer and the Union that this Article shall be interpreted to conform  
to the rulings of the NLRB with respect to contracting and subcontracting clauses allowed  
under the to Section 8(e) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as  
amended.  
### ARTICLE XxXI  
### Construction Industry Advancement Program  
Section 1. In recognition of the need for providing a means whereby construction  
industry Employers can facilitate and supplement financing or activities, which include but  
are not limited to public relations, public education, scholarships, accident prevention,  
disaster relief, Employer expenses incurred in the promotion of stability of relations  
between Labor and Management, the promotion of legitimate markets, standardization of  
contracts, and research, the parties hereto agree:  
a. Subject to the provisions of Section 3 of Article XXIII of this Agreement, fram  
the effective date of this Agreement each Employer shalt pay to the Construction Industry  
32  
Advancement Program of Baltimore, Maryland (hereinafter called the “CIAP”) a sum equal  
to twelve cents ($.12) per hour worked, per Employee covered by the terms of this  
Agreement. Said sum shail be paid to the CIAP Board consisting solely of representatives  
designated by the Labor Relations Division and by Employers who are not members of  
the Labor Relations Division but who have become subject to the provisions of this Article  
by executing or adopting a Collective Bargaining Agreement requiring the payment of  
contributions to the CIAP. Payments to the CIAP shall be due and payabie to the  
Carpenter Funds Office, as the Collecting Agent designated by the CIAP, monthly, by the  
twentieth (20) day of the month next succeeding the month for which said sum is  
payable. Said funds shall be used for the purpose hereinabove stated including the  
administrative expenses incurred by the CIAP.  
b. The Employers recognize and acknowledge that the regular and prompt  
payment of the sums due to CIAP under this Article is essential to the operation of the  
CIAP. Therefore, the amount of damage resulting from each and every such failure shall  
be presumed to be the sum of $10.00 per delinquency or 10% of the payment due,  
whichever Is greater, plus interest on the amount of the payment due at the rate of one  
and one-half percent (142%) per month until paid, which amount shall become due and  
payable as liquidated damages, and not as a penaity, upon the day immediately following  
the date on which the payment becomes delinquent, and shall be in addition to said  
delinquent payment. Such delinquent Employers shall also be liable for all reasonable  
expenses incurred by the CIAP directly attributable to the cost of collection (including a  
reasonable fee} of said delinquent payments.  
Section 2. The Union shall be under no obligation to strike for the purpose of  
compelling any Employer to participate in the CIAP. It is specifically understood that the  
Union will not be required nor called upon to enforce the collection of the aforesaid  
payments. Monies collected by the CIAP shall not be used for lobbying or sponsoring any  
legislation detrimental to the Union nor shall any such monies be prorated to ny  
individual Employer during a strike or lockout. In no instance shall any of the foregoing  
funds be used for advertising or propaganda against the Union. This Article shalf be  
33  
applicable only to an Employer which Is signatory to this Agreement or Is represented by  
the Labor Relations Division.  
Section 3. The establishment of this Program is subject to all applicable Federal  
and State Laws.  
Section 4. The Union shall furnish to the CIAP regularly and currently the names  
of Employers who are signatory to this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XXI{A)  
### Joint Trades Labor Management Committee  
Section 1. In recognition of the need for providing a means whereby multi-trades  
construction industry Employers and Unions can jointly enable activities, which include  
but are not limited to public relations, public education, scholarships, accident prevention,  
in the promotion of stability of relations between Labor and Management, the promotion  
and expansion of legitimate markets, standardization of contracts, and research, the  
parties hereto agree:  
a. For the duration of this Agreement, each Employer shal! pay to the Joint Trades  
Labor-Management Committee of Baltimore, Maryland (hereinafter called the  
“Committee”) (or to its successor in fact or name) a sum equal to two cents ($.02) per  
hour worked, per Employee covered by the terms of this Agreement. Payments to the  
Committee shall be due and payable to the Carpenter Funds Office, as the Collecting  
Agent designated by the Committee, monthly, by the twentieth (20) day of the month  
next succeeding the month for which said sum is payable. Said funds shall be used for  
the purpose hereinabove stated including the administrative expenses incurred by the  
Committee.  
b. The Employers recognize and acknowledge that the regular and prompt  
payment of the sums due to the Committee under this Article is essential to the operation  
of the Committee. Therefore, the amount of damage resulting from each and every such  
failure shall be presumed to be the sum of $10.00 per delinquency or 10% of the  
payment due, whichever is greater, plus interest on the amount of the payment due at  
the rate of one and one-half percent (1%2%) per month until paid, which amount shall  
become due and payable as liquidated damages, and not as a penalty, upon the day  
immediately following the date on which the payment becomes delinquent, and shall be  
34  
in addition to said delinquent payment. Such delinquent Employer(s} shall also be liable  
for all reasonable expenses Incurred by the Committee directly attributable to the cost of  
collection (including a reasonable attorney’s fee) of said delinquent payments.  
Section 2. The Union shall be under no obligation to strike for the purpose of  
compelling any Employer to participate in the Committee. It is specifically understood  
that the Union will not be required nor called upon to enforce the collection of the  
aforesaid payments. Monies collected by the Committee shall not be used for lobbying or  
sponsoring any legislation detrimental to the Union nor shali any such monies be prorated  
to any individual Employer during a strike or lockout. In no instance shall any of the  
foregoing funds be used for advertising or propaganda against the Union. This Article  
shall be applicable only to an Employer which is signatory to this Agreement or is  
represented by the Labor Reiations Division.  
Section 3. The establishment of this Program is subject to all appticable Federal  
and State Laws.  
Section 4. The Union shall furnish to the Committee regularly and currently the  
names of Employers who are signatory to this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XXII  
### Check-Off of Union Membership Dues  
Section 1. In accordance with the terms of an individual and voluntary written  
authorization for check-off of membership dues in form permitted by the provisions of  
Section 302(c) of the Labor-Management Relations Act, as amended, the Employer shall  
deduct each week from the wages of each Employee covered by this Agreement, who  
signs said authorization, an amount determined by the Union from time to time.  
Section 2. The Employer shall also deduct from the hourly wage of each  
Millwright Employee covered by this Agreement an additional amount determined by the  
Union from time to time.  
Section 3. The amount deducted pursuant to Sections 1 and/or 2 of this Article  
shall be payable to the Carpenters Fund Office monthly by the twentieth (20"") day of the  
month following the manth in which the required amaunt is deducted and shall be  
remitted in accordance with ail of the provisions and requirements of Sections 6 through  
12 of Article XXIII of this Agreement.  
35  
### ARTICLE XXIII  
### Fringe Benefits  
Section 1. Pension Fund. The Employer shall pay the amount specified per hour  
in Appendix I to this Agreement for each hour worked by each Employee covered by this  
Agreement to the Carpenters Pension Fund of Baltimore, Maryland.  
Section 2. Health and Welfare Fund. The Employer shall pay the amount  
specified per hour in Appendix I to this Agreement for each hour worked by each  
Employee covered by this Agreement to the Carpenters Health and Welfare Fund. Such  
amount shal! fund the Emptoyers’ portion of FICA, FUTA and state unemployment taxes  
due on account of weekly disability benefits provided by the Fund to Employees and  
former Employees of the Employers.  
Section 3. Apprenticeship and Training Fund. During the term of this  
Agreement, each Employer shall pay the following amounts for each hour worked by each  
and Training Fund thirty-seven cents ($.37) unless the Employer pays twelve cents  
($.12) per hour to the CIAP under Article XXI above in which case the Employer shall pay  
twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour to the Baltimore Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship and  
Training Fund,  
Each Employer signatory to this Agreement, which has not given authority to the  
Labor Relations Division to represent it, shall designate on the Acceptance Form, below,  
where jit will pay thirty-seven cents ($.37} for each of the three (3) years of the  
Agreement. That designation shall remain in full force and effect until the Employer  
changes that designation, in writing, at least thirty (30) days prior to a payment being  
due.  
Section 4. Vacation Fund. For each hour worked by each Employee covered by  
this Agreement, the Employer shall deduct the amount specified in Appendix I to this  
Agreement from the wages of each Employee covered by this Agreement and shall pay  
the amount deducted to the Carpenters Vacation Fund of Baltimore, Maryland.  
Section 5. Severance and Annuity Fund. For each hour worked by each  
Employee under this Agreement, the Employer shall pay the amount specified in  
Appendix I to the Carpenters Severance and Annuity Fund of Baltimore, Maryland.  
36  
Section 6. Until such time as the Employer is notifled by the Union in writing of a  
change in the receiving agent agreed to by the Labor Relations Division and the Union, all  
payments required by Sections 1 through 5 above, as well as dues check-off payments  
required by Article XXII above, shall be made payable, for the full amount required, by  
one check, to the order of the “Carpenters Funds” as receiving agent for each of the  
above mentioned trust funds in and the Union; which tump sum amount shail then be  
prorated accordingly among the said Funds and the Union and deposited to the  
appropriate bank account of each said Funds and Union.  
Section 7. The Employer shali deliver the payments required under Sections 1  
through 5 of this Article and under Article XXII together with a monthly statement. The  
statement shail be made on a consolidated report form prepared by the Union and the  
Labor Relations Division of the Maryland Chapter of the Associated General of  
America, Inc., and shall set forth for each Employee covered by this Agreement his  
name, social security number, hours worked, and such other pertinent information as  
may be required on the form, during the period for which payment is made.  
Section 8. All payments required by Sections 1 through 5 of this Article and  
Article XXII (and all reports required by Section 7 above} must be delivered each week to  
the Shop Steward on the job, unless permission to submit same on a monthly basis  
and/or to submit by mail directly to the Funds Office is granted by the Trustees of the  
various funds. All members of the Labor Relations Division of the Maryiand Chapter of  
the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. and its affiliated organizations will  
submit payment and forms by mail on a monthly basis.  
Section 9. It is understood and agreed that the Employer, by its signature to this  
Agreement, accepts the terms and provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
of each of the Funds that is referred to in Sections 1 through 5 of this as said  
Agreements and Declarations of Trust have been amended heretofore or may be  
amended hereafter, and said Agreements and Declarations of Trust are hereby made a  
part of this Agreement as if specifically set forth herein in their entirety.  
Section 10. The Employer further agrees with respect to each Fund set forth in  
Sections 1 through 5 above:  
37  
a. That the Employer Trustees named in said Agreements and Declarations of  
Trust, and additional Employer Trustees appointed pursuant to the terms of the  
Agreements and Declarations of Trust, and their successors in Trust, are and shall be its  
representatives.  
b. That the Employer approves and consents to the appointment of the Trustees  
of the said Funds heretofore appointed and hereafter selected as provided for in said  
Agreements and Declarations of Trust; and  
c. That the Employer further ratifies, confirms, approves and consents to all  
amendments of the said Agreements and Declarations of Trust that may hereafter be  
made in accordance with the provisions of said Agreements and Dectarations of Trust.  
Section 11. Notwithstanding, anything in this Agreement to the contrary it is  
specifically understood and agreed that in the event the Employer fails to make any of  
the payments required under Sections 1 through 5 of this Article and Article XXII and/or  
fails to submit the report form required under Section 7 above, by the twentieth (20°)  
day of any month if on a monthly basis, or by the end of the day on payday if on a  
weekly basis, the Union shall have the right to withdraw the Employees of said Employer  
from his employment and may strike said Employer effective as of the next day after said  
payment or reports are due or at any time thereafter at the discretion of the Union and  
said withdrawal of Employees and strike may be continued until such time as the required  
payment, and any liquidated damages and interest accrued as a result of the late  
payment, are paid.  
Section 12. The Employer and the Union recognize and acknowledge that the  
regular and prompt payment of those payments required by Sections 1 through 5 of this  
Article and Article XXII are essential and that it would be extremely difficult, if not  
impracticable to fix the actual expense and damage to the Funds, to the Union and to the  
Employee which would result from the failure of the Employer to make such payments  
within the time provided. Therefore, the amount of damage resulting from each and  
every such failure shalt be presumed to be the sum of $25.00 per delinquency or 10% of  
the amount of the payment due whichever is greater, plus interest on the amount of  
payment due at the rate of one and one-half percent (1%2%) per month, or the maximum  
38  
amount permitted by law, until paid, which amount shall become due and payable as  
iiquidated damages, and not as a upon the day immediately following the date  
on which the payment becomes delinquent and shall be in addition to said delinquent  
payment,  
Section 13. When starting a job, the Employer shall be required. to place in  
escrow with the Carpenters Funds Escrow Account a sum of money, the actual amount to  
be set by the Business Office of the Union. The Union may demand a bond in lieu of a  
cash escrow, or a combination of cash escrow and bond., This payment shati not relieve  
the Employer of making regular payments and filing reports as required by any other  
Article or Section of this Agreement. If the Employer has underpaid at the time of the  
final report, the money still due the Carpenters Funds Office shall be deducted from the  
escrow payment and then any excess refunded to the Employer.  
Section 14. a. If, in the case of ‘a second delinquency in any twelve month  
period, on or before the third calendar day after the date the Trustees give notice of the  
delinquency, the Employer has not cured its delinquency to any one or more of the Fringe  
Benefit Funds, then the Trustees of any one or more of the Fringe Benefit Funds may  
direct that a bond or fetter of credit be deposited with the Fringe Benefit Funds’  
Administrator(s) to secure the faithful payment of all amounts owed and/or to be owed  
which bond or letter for credit is to be sufficient in amount to cover the current  
delinquency or delinquencies plus a sum of $20,000.00 as deemed appropriate by the  
Trustees of the Funds.  
b. The failure of the Union or the Trustees to act under this or any other Section  
of the Agreement on any particular occasion of delinquency shall not cause or bring about  
a waiver of their right to act in any other delinquency.  
c. The remedies in this subsection shall be in addition to any other rights  
accorded to the Union or the Trustees.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### Management Rights _  
Each of the member Employers for whom this Agreement is negotiated and  
executed by the Association and each Employer who may. be governed. by the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement retains the exclusive right to manage its business and jobs  
39  
and to direct its working forces subject only to the specific limitations thereon set forth in  
clear terms in the provision of this Agreement. The right to manage each Employer’s  
business and jobs and to direct the working force shall be deemed to include, without  
limitation upon the generality of the terms, the right to hire, suspend or discharge  
Employees for proper cause; the right to transfer Employees from job to job, and the  
right to lay off Employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons. In  
addition, the scheduling of performance, and the methods of are  
recognized as being sofely and exctusively the right and responsibility of the Empfoyer.  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### Equal Opportunity  
The parties hereby agree they will not, either jointly or discriminate  
in regard to hire, tenure, promotion or other terms or conditions of employment against  
any individuat on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, marital status  
or physicai or mental disability to the extent required by Jaw. ‘Ine masculine gender has  
been used in this Agreement solely for the purpose of convenience and refers to both the  
masculine and feminine genders, as well as the neuter.  
### ARTICLE XXVI  
### Jurisdictional Disputes  
In the event of any dispute involving the assignment of work by the Employer,  
said dispute shall be resolved in accordance with the Plan for Settlement of Jurisdictional  
Disputes in the Construction to which the Nationa! Association of General Contractors and  
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, AFL-CIO are Parties. In  
the event the National AGC or the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of  
America, AFL-CIO withdraw from said Plan or either is in non-compliance with said Plan  
then this clause shal! become nu!| and void. In-the event, the dispute shall be referred to  
the respective Genera! President of the contesting Unions in an effort to seek a  
resolution.  
### ARTICLE XXVII  
### Prevailing Wage Reports  
Since it is desirable both for the Employer and the Union to participate in efforts  
to upgrade the Prevailing Wage Scales on City, State and Federal work, it is agreed that a  
mutually acceptable report from which will be provided by the Union shall be submitted  
40  
by all Employers Immediately upon of each project. The information provided  
on this report shall be: Location of Job, Wage Scale Pald, Fringe Benefits Paid, Number of  
Men Employed, etc. However, any additional information which is deemed necessary in  
the future will also be provided. It is fully understood that this report furnished to the  
Union Office will contain only information pertaining to work covered by this Agreement  
and will be submitted regardless of any other form submitted to any other organization.  
### ARTICLE XxvITI  
### Separability and Savings Clause  
Section 1. If any Article or section of this Agreement should be held invalid by  
operation of law or by any of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or  
enforcement of any Article or Section should be restrained by such tribunal pending a  
final determination as to its validity, the remalnder. of this Agreement, or the application  
of such Article or Section to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has  
been held invalid or as to which compliancé with of enfoccément.of has been'restrained,  
eer ey ee  
shall not be affected thereby. In the event that any Article or Sectionds held invalid or  
enforcement of or compliance with has been restralned, as above set forth, the Employer  
and the Union shall enter into: immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the  
request of the Union or the Employer, for the purpose of arriving at a mutually  
satisfactory replacement for such Article or Section during the period of invalidity or  
a. x  
restraint. toe NY Na Sees SS  
whan = . am  
27h  
ik atm  
### ARTICLE XXIX~ *  
### Drug and Alcohol Policy  
The Employers and Union recognize that any drug and/or alcohol use In the  
workplace is an extreme safety and health hazard. To that end, both the Employers and  
Union strongly support and recommend the use of the Mid-Atlantic Regional Counc!) of  
Carpenters - Baltimore District Drug Policy, or any lawful and reasonably enforced drug  
and alcohol policy adopted by an Employer, to help ensure a safe working environment  
for the Employees. Before it adopts a new drug and/or alcohol abuse policy, the  
Employer shall first consult with the Union, and It shall give the Union a meaningful  
opportunity to examine, comment on and bargain over the contents of the new policy.  
41  
### ARTICLE XXX , ‘  
### Duration of Agreement  
Section 1. This Agreement shail be in full force and effect from April 1, 2005  
through March 31, 2008 and shall continue in full force and effect from year  
thereafter unless written notice of desire to terminate or modify this Agreement is served  
by either party upon the other at least sixty (60) days prior to March 31, 2008, or any  
subsequent anniversary date.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and  
seals to be effective as of the 1“ day of April, 2005.  
### THE LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION OF THE MARYLAND CHAPTER OF THE ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA, INC.  
By: zl  
### MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
### BALTIMORE DISTRICT  
### AFFILIATED: WITH THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF  
### AMERICA, AFL-CIO  
By:  
42  
   
### AND  
   
43  
### ACCEPTANCE  
### ACCEPTANCE BY EMPLOYER WHICH HAS NOT AUTHORIZED THE LABOR RELATIONS  
### DIVISION OF THE MARYLAND CHAPTER OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF AMERICA, INC. IN WRITING TO REPRESENT IT.  
The undersigned Employer accepts each and every provision of the foregoing  
AGREEMENT between the Labor Relations Division of the Maryland Chapter of the  
Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. and the Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of  
Carpenters - Baltimore District, affiliated with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and  
Joiners of America, AFL-CIO, effective from April 1, 2005, to and including March 31,  
2008, and adopts said AGREEMENT and each and every one of its provisions as its own  
AGREEMENT with the Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenters - Baitimore District  
affiliated with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, AFL-CIO.  
Whenever the term “Employer” is used in said AGREEMENT, sald term shall include the  
undersigned Employer.  
### EMPLOYER:  
(Print Company Name Carefully):  
Signature & Title of Company  
Authorized Officer:  
Print Name of Authorized Company Officer:  
Address of Empioyer: ee  
Date: ae igen FN  
Telephone Number: i  
Fax Number:  
Employer Identification Number:  
44  
The Employer agrees that it shall pay:  
{ } To the Saltimore Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund: thirty-seven  
cents ($.37) per hour,  
{ ) the Baltimore Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund (Fund)  
and the Construction Industry Advancement Program (CIAP): twenty-five cents  
($.25) per hour to the Fund and twelve cents ($.12) per hour to the CIAP.  
### ACCEPTED BY THE MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS - BALTIMORE  
### DISTRICT, AFFILIATED WITH THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND  
### JOINERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO.  
Signature of Authorized Union Officer:  
   
Title of Authorized Union Officer:  
Date:  
45  
### APPENDIX I  
### SCHEDULE A — CARPENTERS, PILE DRIVERS, FLOOR LAYERS, ETC.  
$1.00 $1.00  
(To Be Determined | (To Be Determined  
by Mgmt, & the  
nh”  
       
      
       
       
   
     
     
    
   
     
   
   
   
    
      
    
     
    
| Wage (Refer  
Notes 1, 2&3  
Health & Welfare $  
Annuity  
Refer to Note 4  
| $0.25  
    
Labor Management  
ee)  
  
ees nog | |  
Trainine - 0.02  
Oe)  
To Re DNeducted  
From Employee’s  
Paycheck  
Refer to Note 4  
Dues Check-Off  
   
     
   
       
   
       
      
     
     
   
    
   
4% of weekly 4% of weekly 4% of weekly  
gross pay for gross pay for gross pay for  
Carpenters & Carpenters & Carpenters &  
Carpenter Carpenter Carpenter  
Apprentices Apprentices Apprentices  
     
   
    
    
        
    
     
    
   
         
     
   
     
Notes  
1, Foremen Receives $1.00 per hour in addition to the Journeyman rate.  
2, General Foremen receives $2.00 per hour in addition to the Journeyman rate.  
3. All Carpenter Apprentices receive an hourly wage computed on the basis of the  
percentages set out in Article IX, Section 2.  
4, Except as provided in Article 1X, Section 2, fringe benefit contributions and  
deductions are the same for Carpenter Apprentices as for Journeyman  
Carpenters.  
. 46  
### APPENDIX I  
### SCHEDULE B - MILLWRIGHTS  
04/01/05 04/01/06 04/01/07  
$1.00 $1.00  
(To Be Determined | (To Be Determined  
by Mgmt. & the by Mgmt. & the  
Uni  
     
       
   
       
     
     
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
      
    
   
Wage (Refer to  
Notes 1,2 &3  
$24.07  
|Health & Welfare || $ 3.00  
[Pension se | Cd 25  
Annuity  
Refer to Note 4 |  
CIAP | $012 [|  
|LaborManagement “| $0.02. | ©. |  
     
   
Apprenticeship &  
Training  
ee  
fers | |  
From Employee's  
Paycheck  
Refer to Note 4 t  
Dues Check-Off 4% of weekly  
gross pay for  
Carpenters &  
Carpenter  
Apprentices  
      
    
     
      
     
    
    
      
       
      
       
     
       
     
    
   
      
       
     
    
4% of weekly  
gross pay for  
Carpenters &  
Carpenter  
Apprentices  
4% of weekly  
gross pay for  
Carpenters &  
Carpenter  
Apprentices  
    
      
Notes  
5. Millwright Foremen Receives $1.25 per hour in addition to the Journeyman rate.  
6. Millwright General Foremen receives $2.25 per hour in addition to the  
Journeyman rate.  
7. All Millwright Apprentices receive an hourly wage computed on the basis of the  
percentages set out in Article IX, Section 2.  
8. Except as provided in Article IX, Section 2, fringe benefit contributions and  
deductions are the same for Carpenter Apprentices as for Journeyman  
Carpenters,  
47  
### BP  
### APPRENTICESHIP WAGE/FRINGE BREAKDOWN  
### EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2005  
oO  
  
  
Md ~~  
i o  
“J S  
Apprenticeship &  
Training  
[0.60  
  
a  
|  
  
ot en  
### LY  
|  
### PT  
P|  
  
### TOO? ‘T 1lud¥ MALAY WVUDOUd  
### AINO SUSAY) YOOTS W atid - 9  
Apprenticeship &  
Training Tota  
   
### (1) THESE RATES WILL AFFECT ONLY FIRST YEAR APPRENTICES WHO MAVE ENTERED THE APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM AFTER APRIL 1, 2601.  
### (2) CHECK OFF DUES ARE BASED ON 4% OF WEEKLY GROSS Pay,  
### (3} ALL FRINGE BENEFITS ARE PAID ON HOURS WORKED.  
### I XIQNAdd¥