6630  
### COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT 5°°  
Between  
### CENTRAL ILLINOIS BUILDERS OF AGC  
### BUILDERS ASSOCIATION OF TAZEWE.LL COUNTY  
### GREATER PEORIA CONTRACTORS & SUPPILIERS ASSOC. INC.  
And  
### MID-CENTRAL ILLINOIS REGIONAL COUNCIL OF  
### CARPENTERS  
Springfield, Local Union #16  
Champaign, Local Union #44  
Bloomington, Local Union #63  
Peoria, Local Union #183  
Quincy, Local Union #189  
Danville, Local Union #269  
Mattoon, Local Union #347  
Pekin, Local Union #644  
Litchfield, Local Union #725  
Decatur, Local Union #742  
Jacksonville, Local Union #904  
Lincoln, Millwright Local Union #1051  
May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2009  
SH pages  
Collective Bargaining Agreement Index  
### BEE DL  
Apprentice-Articke XXL PALE 24  
Arbitration-Article XVIE... PALE LL  
Area Jurisdiction by PALE 36  
Checkoff Per Capita Tax-Article XXVIII... PALE 31  
Corporate Signature Authority-Article XXXVI... PAGE 34  
Drug and Alcohol Policy-Article XOXXIIL PALE 33  
Durration-Article XXXYV PAGE 34  
Employers Working-Article XXII... serene PARE DG  
Entire Agreement of the Parties-Article XXXIV... PALE 34  
Foreman, General Foreman, Working Foreman-Article TX. PAGE 15  
Fringe Benefits-Article PALE 30  
General Conditions-Article PABE 16  
Grievance Procedure-Article agen Page 22  
Hiring-Article VIII... FALE 13  
Holidays-Article XIV... PALE 21  
Hours of Work and Overtime-Article XI... Page 17  
Incorporation of PAGE 32  
Industry Advancement Fund-Article PAGE 30  
Jurisdictional Disputes-Article XVI PAE 21  
Jurisdictional Map...  
Lathers Scope of Agreement-Article Ih. eer Page 7  
Management Rights-Article 5s oN as aS ELAS oe. Page 10  
Memorandum of Agreement ............... PALE IG  
Millwright Scope of Agreement-Article Il... Page 7  
Miscellaneous-Article XXV... MEE ZO  
Mutual Amendment-Article XXXII .. SS  
No Strike-No Lockout-Article XV AES DO  
Optional 4-10 Hour Work Week-Article XIE PALE 29  
Piledrivers Scope of Agreement-Article Page 7  
Pre-job Conference-Article Sr Page 12  
Protective and Life ane Article XXXiI... Ree EE Oe  
### Purpose-Article I... PAGE I  
Recognition-Article IV... anand WEE 1  
Reporting-Article XXIX PAGE 32  
Savings Clause-Article XIX PALE 24  
Scope Of Agreement-Article [1 PAGE 2  
Subcontracting-Article XV Page 21  
T.E.A.M.-Article asian PAGE 24  
Tile, Marble, Terrazzo Finishers Scope a of Agreement-Articl ii EA BS  
Tools & Equipment-Article XXIV... PAGE LO  
Trust Agreements-Article XXII PALE 20  
Union Representation-Article V1 PAGE ED  
Union Security-Article V Page  
Validity ... ABE 1  
Wages, Fringes ‘and Payday-Artcie X Xill... AO 19  
Wage Addendums-Article XXXVI... PALE 34  
Witnesseth ... ee  
Wage Addendums are available upon request from the Mid-Central Hlinois Regional Council of  
Carpenters, affiliated Local Unions and Signatory Contractor Associations.  
### MID-CENTRAL ILLINOIS REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
### COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREE MENT  
THIS AGREEMENT made this Ist day of May, 2006, between ‘he Central Illinois Builders  
Chapter of AGC, Builders Association of Tazewell and Greater Peoria Contractors and Suppliers  
Association, Inc., hereinafter called "Employer" and the Mid-Central I'linois Regional Council of  
Carpenters, in behalf of the Local Unions under its jurisdiction all of which are affiliated with the United  
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, hereinafter called "Union".  
Any Employer, not a member of the Employer Association as refe:red to above, may receive the  
benefits and assume the obligations of this Agreement with the Union by signing the original copy of this  
Agreement and by agreeing to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof.  
### WITNESSETH  
WHEREAS, the parties have heretofore, through a series of negotiations and conferences, come to  
mutual agreement on various matters affecting the relationship between the parties, and are desirous of reducing  
said agreements to writing.  
The Employer members of the Associations are engaged primarily in the Building and Construction  
Industry, and as such, the Employers, the Associations and the Union have: a common interest in same. The  
Associations and the Union hereby pledge themselves to the highest degree of harmony and good faith in the  
performance of this Agreement. The Employer members of the Associations being in the Building and  
Construction Industry, believe excellence and safety of endeavor are requisites to the continuation and  
success of the business of each Employer.  
### VALIDITY  
In the event that any Article, Paragraph or Section of this Agreeme.t, and any Amendments thereof,  
shall be invalid, then neither of the parties hereto shall be bound to said portion invalid, but the said Articles,  
Paragraphs and Sections shall be deemed to be separable, and the invalidity of any portion thereto shail not  
affect the validity of the remainder.  
### ARTICLE I  
### PURPOSE  
Section 1. The purpose of this Agreement is to promote efficiency of construction operations and  
provide for peaceful settlement of labor disputes without strike or lockout on all projects covered by this  
Agreement.  
Section 2. It is also the intent of the parties to set out uniform standard working conditions for the  
efficient operation of said construction work, to establish and maintain harmonious relations between and  
among all parties to the Agreement, to secure optimum productivity and to eliminate strikes, lockouts or delays  
in prosecution of the work undertaken by the Employer.  
Section 3. This Agreement is an effort by the parties to implement those improvements which will  
encourage Buyers of construction services to utilize the Employer and the Employee Unions signatory to this  
Agreement.  
### ARTICLE II  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  
Section 1. The parties to this Agreement recognize that it may be in the best interest of the  
Construction Industry for various craft unions to consolidate and/or merge, and therefore hereby agree that if  
any Local or International Union legally agrees to merge or consolidate with the United Brotherhood of  
Carpenters and Joiners of America or the Mid-Central Illinois Regional Council of Carpenters or any of its  
affiliates, the Scope of Work as contained at that time in that particular Crafts Agreement shall immediately  
become part of the Scope of Work Clause in the Mid-Central Illinois Reg.onal Council of Carpenters  
Agreement.  
Section 2. This Agreement shall apply to all construction, repair, and rehabilitations and all  
industrial maintenance work not covered by a maintenance agreement.  
Section 3. This Agreement shall cover all employees employed by the Employer engaged in work  
coming under al! classifications listed under the trade autonomy of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and  
Joiners of America.  
Section 4. The following Forty-one (41) counties shall be covered: Adams, Brown, Cass,  
Champaign, Christian, Clark, Coles, Crawford, Cumberland, DeWitt, Douglas, Edgar, Effingham, Ford, Fulton,  
Greene, Hancock, Jasper, Knox, Livingston, Logan, McDonough, McLean, Macon, Macoupin, Mason, Menard,  
Montgomery, Morgan, Moultrie, Peoria, Piatt, Pike, Sangamon, Schuyler, Scott, Shelby, Tazewell, Vermilion,  
Warren and Woodford.  
Section 5. The trade autonomy of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America  
consists of the milling, fashioning, joining, assembling, erection, fastening: or dismantling of all material of  
wood, plastic, metal, fiber, cork and composition, and all other substitute materials. The handling, cleaning,  
erecting, installation and dismantling of machinery, equipment and all ma‘erials used by members of the United  
Brotherhood.  
Section 6. The Unions claim of our jurisdiction extends over all the divisions and subdivisions of  
the trade including the following: Carpenters and Joiners; Millwrights; Pile Drivers; Tile, Marble, Terrazzo  
Finishers, Shopworkers, Granite Cutters, Bridge, Dock and Wharf Carpenters; Divers; Underpinners;  
Timbermen and Core Drillers; Lathers, Shipwrights, Boat Builders, Ship Carpenters, Joiners and Caulkers;  
Cabinet Makers, Bench Hands, Stair Builders, Millmen; Wood and Resilient Floor Layers and Finishers; Carpet  
Layers; Shinglers; Siders; Insulators; Acoustic Drywall Applicators; Shorers and House Movers; Loggers;  
Lumber and Sawmill Workers; Furniture Workers; Reed and Rattan Work ers; Shingle Weavers; Casket and  
Coffin Makers; Box Makers, Railroad Carpenters and Car Builders, regardless of material used; and all those  
engaged in the operation of woodworking or other machinery required in the fashioning, milling or  
manufacturing of Products used in the trade, and the handling, erecting an: installing materials on any of the  
above divisions or subdivisions, burning, welding, rigging and the use of zny instrument or tool for layout work  
incidental to the trade. The layout work for all buildings, houses and apar‘ments, foundations, etc to include the  
erection of all batter boards, and to include the use of all tools and instruments in connection thereof. The  
installation of all ptling for buildings and structures of all types whether of wood, metal, or concrete. The  
installation of all sheet piling and bracing of same. The installation of all shoring, underpinning and lagging.  
The installation of all caissons. The removal of all materials pertaining to Pile Drivers work. The fabrication,  
erection, stripping and dismantling of all concrete forms whether of wood, metal or composition form materials  
for houses, apartment buildings and structures of all sorts. This includes, but is not limited to footing forms,  
wall forms, foundation forms of all descriptions, forms for concrete floors. beams and columns including  
### ARTICLE II  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT (Continued)  
Section 6. (Continued)  
shoring thereof, screeds, bulkheads, the setting of all anchor bolts, and anv rigging thereof. The fabrication,  
erecting and dismantling of all falsework. The rigging, setting, fastening, aligning, leveling and bracing of all  
precast concrete members. The fabrication and erection of all framework for houses or apartments of any and  
all descriptions. The erection of all prefabricated components for houses or apartments or other buildings  
whether manufactured on the job site or in a manufacturing plant. The installation of all materials for exterior  
trim on houses or apartments including siding, windows, doors; other exterior trim including fascias and soffits,  
mouldings, foam spray and roof covering materials. The installation of all material for interior trim on houses or  
apartments including, but not limited to paneling, drywall, flooring, mouldings, doors and frames, cabinets,  
stairways, all other materials classified as trim, and the installation of ail hardware of any type or description.  
The installation, repair, and maintenance of all locks and hardware for all doors and windows including roll up  
doors. The fabrication, erection of all framework, blocking and furring, whether of wood or metal, on  
commercial, institutional or industrial buildings. The installation of all exterior trim materials whether of wood,  
metal or composition, on commercial, institutional or industrial buildings, to include, but not limited to  
windows, doors and frames, siding, fascias and soffits, canopies, store fronts, etc., and to include any blocking,  
furring and framing thereof. The fabrication and erection of all partitions on commercial, institutional and  
industrial buildings whether of wood, metal or composition materials. Th2 installation of all wall and ceiling  
materials of wood, metal or composition materials on commercial, institutional and industrial buildings  
classified as interior trim such as mouldings, shelving, trim of all types and descriptions. The installation of all  
doors and frames, walk-in coolers, whether of wood, metal or composition materials on commercial,  
institutional or industrial buildings. The installation of all cabinets, stairways, store fixtures of all types and  
descriptions whether of wood, metal or composition materials on institutional or industrial  
buildings. The mstallation of all shower doors and tub enclosures. The ap:plication of acoustical materials of all  
types and descriptions and no matter what the method of installation. The installation of acoustical suspended  
ceilings in their entirety, including the installation of hangers, channels, framing and trim, whether of wood,  
metal or other materials; the installation of all insulation whether glued, nailed or blown. The installation in all  
buildings, houses and apartments and materials of all types classified as "Drywall" including the installation of  
metal studs or framing in connection therewith. The installation in all buildings of floor covering materials no  
matter what the method of installation, and whether of wood, linoleum, ashalt, rubber, vinyl, asbestos, and  
other materials. The installation in all buildings, houses and apartments of rugs or carpets of all types and  
descriptions no matter what the method of installation. The building, erec:ion and dismantling of all scaffolding  
and staging. The building, erection of store, office, bank and other fixtures, racks, shelves, whether of wood,  
metal or other materials. The installation of all laboratory equipment, including cabinets and workbenches,  
bookcases, cabinets either separately or used in conjunction with heating and/or air conditioning units,  
blackboards, bulletin boards, billboards, meterboards, and boards of all types. The assembling and setting of all  
seats in the theaters, halls, churches, schools, banks, stadiums and open-air theaters and other buildings. All  
work in connection with the installation, erection and/or application of all materials and component parts of  
walls and partitions regardless of their material composition or method or manner of their installation  
attachment or connection, including, but not limited to the following items; all floor and ceiling runners, studs,  
stiffeners, cross bracings, fireblocking, resilient channels, furring channels, doors and windows including  
frames, casings, mouldings, bases, accessory trim items, gypsum or drywall materials, laminated gypsum  
systems, backing boards, finish boards, fireproofing of beams and columns, fireproofing of chase, sound and  
thermal insulation materials, fixture attachments including all layout work. preparation of all openings for  
lighting, air vents, or other purposes; and all other necessary or related work in connection therewith. Resilient  
floor covering, carpet laying and aluminum siding application, consists of the cutting, laying, taking up, fitting  
and relaying of all carpets, patent back carpets, linoleum, wall linoleum, wall tile, mattings, and all other  
preformed resilient floor or wall covering in sheet or roll form, hand and track machine sewing, drilling holes  
2  
where necessary, installation of dowels and slats, brass and zinc trimming's, and all other fastenings for  
attaching  
### ARTICLE II  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT (Continued)  
Section 6. (Continued)  
carpets and linoleum, and the installation of all linoleum used for sinktops, tabletops, etc. Drapery, shades, and  
venetian blinds consists of the handling, fitting, measuring, and installaticn of fixtures and hardware for same.  
Aluminum siding work, coming under the jurisdiction of aluminum siding: applicators shall consist of the  
application of all aluminum and composition siding, including soffits, fas:ias, guttering and down spouts, all  
wood blocked flooring such as used in Commercial and Industrial. The handling and unloading of materials  
related to all divisions and subdivisions of the trade regardless of distance carried. When the term "Carpenter  
and Joiner" is used, it shall mean all the subdivisions of the trade, including all work jurisdiction formerly  
claimed by the Lather's International Union, and all work formerly claimed by the Tile, Marble, Terrazzo  
Finishers, Shopworkers and Granite Cutters International Union.  
Section 7. FLOOR COVERING SCOPE OF WORK. The installation in all buildings, houses,  
apartments. To consist of installation, preparation, measuring, cutting, fitting, taking up and relaying of all  
carpets, rugs of all types, synthetic and natural fibers, woods, resilient floor coverings, linoleum, asphalt,  
rubber, vinyl, vinyl] backed, cork, vinyl composition, no matter what combinations.  
This shall include the preparation of all surfaces, sanding, leveling, priming, sealing, minor patching and  
finish sweeping and clean up duties.  
Regardless of method of installation, this shall include all floors, interior and exterior, walls, countertops  
and bases, sink bases, as long aS material and methods are the same. Shali also include all attaching of trim  
devices, whether wood, vinyl, metal or other type related to installation of material. This shall include the  
handling and unloading of materials related to all divisions/subdivisions of the trade, regardless of the distance  
carried. This shall also include the final sweep of the floor before the vacuuming of carpets after  
installation, the first mopping and waxing of all vinyl composition and the removal of all scrap  
material to a common location.  
Section 8. The above occupational scope shall be subject to ali Agreements of International Unions.  
Including the use of Forklift and related equipment as tools of our trade.  
### MILLWRIGHT LOCAL UNION #1951  
Section 9. Millwright Occupational Scope. This Agreement covers all Millwright work including,  
but not limited to the following: power ngging and installation of all engine motors, dynamos, generators,  
turbines, printing presses, conveyors, dryers, air compressors, fans, blowess, pumps, extruders, paper making  
machines, ball mills, roller mills, hammer mills, elevators, escalators, bottling-canning factory  
equipment or any other mechanical device and installation of flywheels, sheaves, pulleys, or drivers on same.  
The rebabbitting of all machinery, all cutting, burning, and fabricating of all supports connected therewith. The  
installation of all laundry, kitchen and restaurant equipment. The repairiny of all hand trucks, overhead chain  
conveyors, and power driven conveyors. (Description of one type of conveyor; a conveyor is a machine which,  
after assembled, will perform work the same as any other mechanical machine or equipment). All fabrication,  
installation, dismantling and maintaining of all conveyors, including crew, belt, bucket, roller and slate, spiral  
chutes and all channel type free trolley I-beams and all types of monorails and tram rails, including conveyors  
### ARTICLE II  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT (Continued)  
Section 9. Millwright Occupational Scope. (Continued):  
built of wood, steel, pipe, or fibre, riveted, bolted, welded and all supports and adjuncts connected therewith.  
All fabrication, installation, dismantling and maintaining of all chain-type, dragline, air-veyor, power-driven,  
pipe constructed conveyors including all other supports and adjuncts necessary for their installation. All grain  
handling devices, all scales, all grain mills, crushers and beaters. Ali drives such as rope beit, chain, friction,  
gears and raw hide. All driver screens, dodge belts and gears, extractors znd expellers, all agitators, barrel  
hooping machines, sewing machines and case sealing machines. Setting «nd maintaining of all portable mixers,  
the making, setting, drilling and pouring of all bolts for the installation of machinery and equipment. All coal  
handling machinery, drive crushers and conveyors of steel or wood, pile cr fibre. Framing and setting of all  
bridge trees of wood, all foundation beams or timbers used for the reception of machinery. The handling of all  
hand and power rigging. The erection of all derricks to be used by millwrights and the installation and  
dismantling of machinery in floor, cereal, cotton, wool, twine, paper, stee], saw, cement, power house, sugar  
refineries, fertilizing plants, ice plants, breweries, distilleries, grain elevators, feed mills and other factories  
where shafting and machinery is used and any other work where millwrig it tools are used. The installation of  
recreational equipment in connection with bowling alleys such as pin-setters and related equipment in its  
entirety. The handling of all handpower rigging and cribbing required to transfer, assemble,  
disassemble and set machinery, equipment and its adjuncts. The installation of all rigging beams whether they  
be temporary or permanent. Pile driving and the handling of all diving equipment and diving. The installation  
of all air-veyors, cable draglines and its guides, all hydraulic cylinders and linkage whether they be operated by  
air, oil or electricity. Transfer cars and its rails for heat treat or similar furnace. The installation of all x-ray  
equipment. The fabrication and erection of all scaffolding required for the installation of machinery and  
equipment. The fabrication, setting and dripacking of all shims, sole plates, and machine bases, whether they  
are steel, wood or fibre for the installation of machinery, equipment, and iis adjuncts. The installation of all  
precision setting of atomic reactor intervals. The installation of all dam rcllers in its entirety and its adjuncts.  
The power rigging and installation of comminutor, farminutors, degreaser, rotometer, dehumidifier, benches,  
control panels, washers, anvils, welding equipment, shelving, hydraulic units, furnaces, utility sheds,  
refrigerators, stoves, deep freezes, pipe threaders, paint booths, gauge test. shroud boxes, scald machines,  
disintegrator, dehairing machine, filter presses, rotary filters, and the installation of stunning pens and doors,  
live bottom hoppers and the installation of two tripe will be performed by Millwrights. The power rigging and  
installation of paper, steel, plastic and aluminum rolling mills and related :quipment. The installation of pre-  
engineered buildings regardless of material. Installation and fabrication of machinery and conveyor bases,  
headers and hangers. The installation of cooling towers regardless of type. Installation, fabrication, and  
welding of plastic materials. The power rigging and installation of disposal systems, pollution  
equipment, bakery equipment, meat processing equipment, rendering equipment, laboratory equipment, pallet  
racks, storage bins, food dispensing equipment, dock boards and hoods, supermarket warehouse equipment, and  
scrapping out of machinery and its related equipment. The running in of all machinery; the covering, making  
and installation of all skids for machinery regardless if they are wood, steel or fibre and removing of same; the  
erection and fabrication of all pallet racks; the installation of gym equipment such as basketball back stops,  
installation of all load cells, eddy current clutches, bindicators and magnetic separators regardless of type; the  
installation of floor rails regardless of type, and the installation of rails for transfer cars, gantry and overhead  
cranes regardless of size or type; and installation of all material handling conveyors whether they be temporary  
or permanent; the handling of all optical tooling equipment, transits, laser and precision instruments for the  
setting of machinery; the installing of anchor bolts, cinch anchors, self tapping anchors and any device for the  
securing of machinery and its adjuncts; the forming, mixing of grout, grouting and dripacking of all machinery;  
the installation of machinery foundations; the installation of rotary valves, slide valves, (mechanical or hand  
operated) chutes and spouts regardless of gauge; and the steam cleaning o/’ all machinery; the handling, cleaning  
by any means, erecting, installing and dismantling of all machinery and equipment; the installation of  
  
escalators, elevators, shoe cleaning machines and traveling walkways, jet or rocket powered machinery; all  
handling,  
### ARTICLE I  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT (Continued)  
Section 9. Millwright Occupational Scope. (Continued):  
setting and machining of all sole plates regardless of what they support; all drilling, tapping and welding that  
may be required; lubrication of all equipment and machinery is the work of millwrights; any exterior forms of  
the containment vessel; the complete setting and leveling by any means «f the ring girder or bases plus any  
necessary cleaning, scraping or machining; all apertures or openings; including access door frames, etc., in the  
containment vessel will be rigged, placed, aligned and secured by any means by millwrights; the placing,  
leveling and aligning of the reactor vessel, including the use of optical instruments, laser or maser beams; the  
installation and securing of biological shield interior plates; exterior plates and or forms for biological shields  
where a void is poured with concrete shall be considered a form and shall be placed and secured in it’s entirety  
by millwrights; the precision alignment and leveling, including bolting and cleaning, scraping or machining  
and the measuring and torquing of bolts; installation of the rod pressure housing, push rods and drives, shut-  
down rods and drives and guide sleeves; the field welding in conjunction with the control rod drive housing will  
be performed by millwrights. The wiring of core starters, core winders, or any similar work on machinery. The  
handling and installation of vibratory conveyor, neutralizer, shadow drafis, extruders, dehumidifiers, testing  
equipment, laboratory equipment, refrigerators, and dynamometers will be performed by millwrights. The set  
up and operation of all machine tools on the job site whether they be portable or stationary, such as lathes,  
milling machines, shapers, saws, grinders, etc., used for the setting and fitting of any equipment. The setting,  
welding and installation of the supporting steel for the control rod drives. The handling and installation of the  
supporting steel for the control rod drives. The handling and installation of all cribbing. The assembly of ladle  
cars. The installation of lubricators and the lubrication of all machinery and equipment. The installation and  
handling of all garage equipment including hoists, wash racks and aligning equipment. The rigging and setting  
and installation of all stage equipment, stage lifts, background equipment, curtains, cables, shives, hydraulic  
devices and all other related stage equipment installed in art buildings, buildings and music buildings.  
The ngging, setting, fabrication, refabrication, welding, bolting and of bin activators. The mixing,  
rodding and placing of all cement base materials, grout, por-rok or any other material or substance used for  
pumps, compressers, machinery, conveyors or any other equipment and related equipment that is installed by  
millwrights. The installation, rigging and setting of all dental chairs and elated dental equipment. The  
installation of all conveyor systems in banks or savings and loan associat.ons, regardless of trade names or  
method of operation of conveyors. The rigging and installation of all cylinders air or hydraulic regardless of  
their function. All start up and run in crews for flushing of lubricating systems, filters and reservoirs.  
Lubricating systems and filters, before and after initial starting of pumps, compressors, machinery and  
equipment to be served shall be cleaned by Millwrights. All cleaning of reservoirs and filling by any means of  
reservoirs. Control of all equipment used for purpose of heating and/or the oil flowing through  
lubricating systems. All rails regardless whether carrying mechanical activated equipment or not and the  
installation of all standard railroad track. The installation of all mail handling and postal equipment, chute  
spouts, conveyors and rigging fabrication welding refabrication of same. The unloading, installation of Z-  
loaders, palletizers and Triax Equipment. Operation of vehicles to transpcrt personnel. The installation of pipe  
organs in their entirety. Clean up of the area in which they are working in. Installation of manipulator  
balancers and all related equipment. Including the use of forklift and related equipment as tools of our trade.  
This contract shall apply to all subdivisions of the trade in its entirety and without limitation. There are  
special provisions within this Contract dealing with one subdivision of the trade or another and such special  
provision when clearly identified as being limited to the specific subdivision shall be so limited. Absent such  
limitation, this Contract will apply in its entirety to all subdivisions of the trade and whenever the term  
"Carpenter" or "Jomer” is used, it shall mean all subdivisions of the trade.  
Aé  
### ARTICLE II  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT (Continued)  
Section 10. | The parties understand that it is an impossible task spell out in complete detail the  
work of the bargaining unit. Accordingly, even though specific work may not be specifically spelled out above  
it will nevertheless be considered as and treated as part of bargaining unit work if it is traditional work of the  
Carpenters.  
### PILEDRIVERS  
Section 11. Piledrivers Occupational Scope. This Agreement recognizes that the Union jurisdiction  
of the work performed on all pile driving and removal operations, the driving of wood pile and removal and the  
cutting, heading and the pointing of same, including the driving of all stee! piling, including pipe sheeting, H-  
beams, I-beams, and caissons; the driving of concrete pile, precast or cast in place; the driving of all composite  
pile, the driving of cofferdams, the installation and removal of all bracing and walers; the erection of all trestles,  
false work and docks; the job site erecting and dismantling of derricks, A-(rames, cranes and gin poles, when  
used in conjunction with pile driving work, the cribbing, shoring and under pinning of buildings when pile  
driving is involved; the erection, dismantling and jacking of pile load tests; the loading, unloading and  
distribution of all piling; the maintenance of pile driving equipment, all burning, welding and splicing of piling,  
including welding of all end plates and bearing plates prior to driving and after installation of all piling, except  
for mill fabrication and manufacturing. The operation of all valves, inclucling the pulling of rope or cable to trip  
the hammer, used in conjunction with pile driving operations, except wher. installed in the cab on a piledriving  
rig. The job site preparation of all barges and scows to be used in pile driving work; crane signaling pertaining  
to all pile driving work; all other work hereafter awarded to pile drivers. Including the use of forklift and  
related equipment as tools of our trade.  
This Agreement recognizes the Union jurisdiction on pile driving znd removal of piling. A safe crew  
shall be used on all pile-driving and removal but in no case shall be less than four (4) journeymen and one (1)  
foreman on bearing pile and no less than four (4) journeymen and one (1) foreman on sheet piling when leads  
are to be involved. However, when hand held or hydraulic or air assisted is to be used without leads,  
a crew shall consist of no less than two (2) journeymen and one (1) foreman.  
Section 12. Lathers Scope of Work. Erecting, constructing, installing, and completing all light iron,  
construction; furring, making and erecting of brackets, clips and hangers; and installation of all wood, wire and  
metal lath; plaster board or other material which takes the place of same tc which plastic or acoustical material  
is adhered; corner beads, all floor construction; arches erected for the purpose of holding plaster, cement,  
concrete or any other plastic or acoustical material.  
All carrying bars, perlins and furring, regardless of size; light iron :ind metal furring of all descriptions  
such as rods, channels, flat iron, nailock, screwlock, pomeroy, T-bar, H-bar, Z-bar, metal splines and other  
ceiling bars or systems for the receipt of metal lath, rock lath, gypsum acoustical tile or any other  
materials and all light iron and metal studs such as Stran Steel, Penn Metal, Soule, Truscon or other trade names  
of metal studs and all other types of light iron or metal studs, no matter what the manufacturer, when such studs  
are to receive a dry wall finish, such as gypsum board, wall board, wooder: paneling, etc., or when such studs  
are to receive metal lath, rock lath, or other material or the application of plaster or other sprayed on wet  
material; and all other light iron furring erected to receive lath and plastic or acoustical materials.  
### ARTICLE I  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT (Continued)  
Section 12. Lathers Scope of Work (Continued)  
The tying, nailing and fastening of all wire and metallic lath such «s wirecloth, wire mesh, expanded  
metal lath, Hyrib lath and all rib and flat expanded metal lath and wire of all descriptions as well as the placing  
of all hangers and all inserts used for the purpose of supporting suspended ceilings of any of the above types of  
light iron and metal furring which receives lath and plaster or acoustical materials; the placing of all types of  
floor lath, such as hyrib lath, paperback steeltex floor lath, Penn metal mb and all other appurtenances  
connected herewith.  
The typing, nailing, clipping or fastening of all types of lath, regardless of size, such as wood lath,  
plaster board, button board, flaxlinum board, bishipric celotex, gypsum lath, rock lath, sheetrock or any and all  
other types of material erected to receive or hold plaster or acoustical material.  
The erection of all metal plastering accessories such as metal corer beads, door and window casing  
beads, metal picture mould, metal chair rail, metal base and base screed and any and all other metal plastering  
accessories which are covered and/or serve as a ground, guard or screed for plaster material.  
The handling on the job site of all materials or materials falling wi'hin the trade jurisdiction of the  
Lathers from the site of delivery on the job to the point of the job where work is to be performed with said  
materials.  
The work of the fabrication of all materials on a job shall be assigr.ed to journeymen, lathers and  
apprentices. Including the use of forklift and related equipment as tools our trade.  
Section 13. Tile, Terrazzo, Finishers, Shopworkers and Granite Cutters Scope of  
Work. This International Union has jurisdiction in the following work and such other work as it may  
hereinafter acquire.  
The trade or work jurisdiction of this International Union, which iricludes all work recited in the original  
charter of the International Association of Marble Workers granted from thie American Federation of Labor on  
January 11, 1902, in addition to all work included in a new charter issued the International Association of  
Marble, Slate and Stone Polishers, Rubbers and Sawyers on February 2, 117, in addition to all work included  
in a new charter issued to the International Association of Marble, Slate and Stone Polishers, Rubbers and  
Sawyers, Tile and Marble Setters Helpers on July 21, 1921, in addition to all work included in a new charter  
issued to the International Association of Marble, Slate and Stone Polishers, Rubbers and Sawyers, Tile and  
Marble Setters Helpers and Marble Mosaic and Terrazzo Workers Helpers on May 25, 1931, in addition to all  
work included in the original charter of the International Association of Granite Cutters granted by the decisions  
of the American Federation of Labor on November 15, 1881, and all work granted by the decisions of the  
American Federation of Labor and its affiliated departments and as a result of decisions of public and private  
tribunals and as a result of trade or area practice or as a result of organization and Collective Bargaining  
Agreements as historically and traditionally exercised by the International Union and as outlined in this Article  
and declared and promulgated by the General Executive Council.  
Its polishers and rubbers shall polish, rub and clean all marble, stone, slate and glass, and all  
compositions and imitations that require the same process of finishing required in polishing, rubbing and  
cleaning marble, stone or slate; this work applies to shop and building, harid and machine.  
Sawyers shall run all gang, cable and diamond saws, set all blocks in gangs, and hammer and set all  
Saws.  
### R  
### ARTICLE II  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT (Continued)  
Section 13. Tile, Marble, Terrazzo, Finishers, Shopworkers and (sranite Cutters Scope of Work.  
(Continued)  
Marble Finishers Work--shall include but not be limited to, all utility work, such as loading and  
unloading trucks and shop machines, operating cranes and derricks, per‘orming all rigging, the handling of all  
materials that may be needed for the installation of such materials, and such work that has historically and  
traditionally been the work of the Marble Finisher. |  
Tile Finishers work--shall include but not be limited to all cleaning, grouting and polishing of all tile,  
handling all sand, cement, lime, tile and all other similar materials that ray be used in the installation, repair  
and maintenance of tile and/or similar materials. Finishers shali fill all joints and voids regardless of method on  
all tile work, particularly and especially after installation of said tile work. Tile Finishers shall also apply any  
and all protective coverings to all types of tile installations. These types of protective coverings will include but  
not be limited to all soap compounds, all types of paper products, all types of varnishes and lacquers, all types  
of tapes and all polyethylene coverings, including all new types of products that may be used for the protection  
of tile installation.  
The work performed by Terrazzo Finishers shall include, but not be limited to, all handling of sand,  
cement, lime, terrazzo and all other materials that may be used in the installation of terrazzo and all similar  
materials, the distribution by hand or by use of any power driven equipmient of the above material. Rubbing,  
grinding and cleaning, polishing and sealing Marble, Mosaic and Terrazzo floors and wainscoting, curbs, steps  
and base, including but not limited to, Magnesite terrazzo, Dex-o-tex ter:azzo, epoxy matrix terrazzo, aggregate,  
rustic or rough washed for exterior or interior of buildings placed either by machine or by hand and any other  
kind of mixtures of plastics composed of chips or granules of marble, grinite, blue stone enamel, mother of  
pearl, quartz, ceramic colored quartz and rubber, neoprene, vinyl, magnesium chioride or any other resinous or  
chemical substances used for seamless flooring systems, or any substances therefore when run on the building  
by hand or machine, any new method of installation such as caulking and. sealing with all new terrazzo material,  
also acid etching of new or old surfaces, also all priming for installation of new materials in the installation of  
the above materials. Including the use of Forklift and related equipment as tools of our trade.  
Machine Stone Workers, Rubbers and Helpers are limited to work on cut cast stone and artificial stone  
used for exterior and construction. The work on artificial stone consists of all sawing, bed and hand rubbing,  
operating of cranes, tool grinding and the handling to the shipping point. The work on cut cast stone consists of  
all moulding, mixing, pouring and rubbing and handling to the shipping point and tool grinding.  
The Cemetery Stone Handlers, Erectors and Granite Helpers include crane and derrick operators, hook-  
up men, drillers, yard and shop helpers, bed setters’ helpers, sawyers' helpers, erectors, drivers, erectors' helpers,  
who handle stone in the granite cutting yards and cemeteries.  
### ARTICLE Hi  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT (Continued)  
Section 13. Tile, Marble, Terrazzo, Finishers, Shopworkers and Granite Cutters Scope of Work.  
(Cont.)  
Granite Cutters and Polishers’ work--shall include but not be limited to all work in the granite industry  
such as cutting, carving, dressing, drafting, lettering, sandblasting, sawing and setting all granite (natural and  
artificial, interior and exterior) bluestone and hard stone on which granite «utters' tools are used. This includes  
from the roughest of street work, seam face and rockfaced ashlar, to the finest of moulded work, carving,  
statuary, machine cutting, turning, rubbing, polishing or dressing, all lettering (hand marked and "Space Write”  
wherever possible), sandblasting, including work of preparing and placing of composition necessary, sawing  
and setting of any kind of granite (natural and artificial), bluestone, and other hard stone, on which granite  
cutting tools or machines are used. Including flame burning torches and guillotines and making up, sharpening  
or dressing said tools either by hand or machine; all designing, drafting, making patterns, shop cards, diagrams  
used in connection with the granite industry; also all jointing of bluestone in building work, street work,  
flagging or any other work in which bluestone is used and all other workers connected with the granite industry.  
The International Union shall have the authority to establish additional general or special categories of  
work jurisdiction as may be required from time to time to identify and maintain the skills coming within the  
work jurisdiction of the International Union.  
The Employer and the Union shall have the right, by mutual agreement, to add to the work jurisdiction  
as above defined and set forth and such addition to the work jurisdiction shall be binding upon the parties.  
The parties understand that it is an impossible task to spell out in complete detail the work of the  
bargaining unit. Accordingly, even though specific work may not be spec fically spelled out, it will  
nevertheless be considered as and treated as part of the bargaining unit work if it is traditional work of the  
Carpenters.  
Section 14. Performance of Work by Employees in Bargaining Unit: The Employees in the  
bargaining unit and only such Employees shall perform all of the work covered by this Agreement, in  
accordance with Article VIII of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE Hi  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
Section 1. The Employer retains full and exclusive authority for the management of its operations.  
The Employer shall! direct his working forces at his sole prerogative, including, but not limited to hiring,  
promotion, overtime assignments, layoff or discharge.  
Section 2. There shall be no limit on production by Employees nor restrictions on the full use of  
tools or equipment. Employees shall use such tools as required to perform any of the work of the trade. The  
operation of all equipment shall be assigned to the proper craft jurisdiction.  
Section 3. No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted or observed which limit or restrict  
production, or limit or restrict the working effort of Employees. The Emp oyer shall determine the most  
efficient method or techniques of construction, tools or other labor-saving devices to be used. However, safety  
of the Employees on the job site shall be of prime concern to the Employer. There shall be no limitations upon  
the choice of materials or design. The Employer shall schedule work and «hall determine when overtime will  
be worked.  
1  
   
   
### ARTICLE III  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS (Continued)  
Section 4. The Employer shall determine the recording devives, checking systems, brassing or other  
methods of keeping time records.  
Section 5. The foregoing enumeration of management rights shall be deemed to be inclusive not  
exclusive. The Employer retains all management rights except as expressly limited herein or by locally  
negotiated Agreements to the extent Local Agreements do not conflict with the terms and provisions of this  
Agreement.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### RECOGNITION  
Section 1. The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclus.ve representative and bargaining agent  
for all Carpenter Employees performing work properly coming under the jurisdiction of the United Brotherhood  
of Carpenters and Joiners of America as defined in its trade autonomy.  
Section 2. The Union recognizes that the Contractor is the Employer of the Union member as  
Employees. Ifa Union member performs contractor work, then he shall be deemed to be a Contractor and shall  
sign a contract with the Mid-Central Illinois Regional Council of Carpenters.  
### ARTICLE V  
### UNION SECURITY  
Section 1. All bargaining unit employees covered by this Agreement as a condition of their  
continued employment, shall, commencing on the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of their employment  
or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is the latter, acquire ard maintain membership in the Union.  
Failure of an Employee to comply with the provision of this Article shall. upon written request of the Union,  
result in the termination of such Employee. The Employer shall not justify any discrimination against an  
Employee for non-membership in the Union if:  
(A) he has reasonable grounds for believing that such membership was not available to the Employee  
on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to the other members or,  
(B) he has reasonable grounds for believing that membership was denied or terminated for reasons other  
than the failure of the Employee to tender the periodic dues and the initiation fees uniformly required as a  
condition of acquiring or retaining membership.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### UNION REPRESENTATION  
Section 1. A Steward shall be a working journeyman, receiving journeyman pay, appointed by the  
Business Manager or Business Agent of the Local Union having jurisdicti»n. The Business Manager or  
Business Agent shall notify the Employer's Representative who he has selected as Steward immediately  
following such selection.  
Section 2. A Steward shall not be laid off or discharged as lon;: as other members of his craft are  
employed by the Employer, with the exception of one (1) foreman, without just cause.  
U1  
   
### ARTICLE VI  
### UNION REPRESENTATION (Continued)  
Section 3. Designated representatives of the Union shall not be denied access to the Employer's project  
office or to any portion of the Employers project for the transaction of necessary business with the Employer or  
the members of the Union subject to government or security regulations.  
Section 4. The Employer agrees to recognize the right of the Business Representative to select a  
Steward from among the Employees, to herein attempt to adjust disputes and grievances, and in case of  
accident, to see that the Employee and their personal belongings are cared for. Loss of time by the injured  
Employee or the Steward in caring for sick or injured Employees shali be paid for by the Employer, during the  
scheduled working shift, in an amount not to exceed eight (8) hours.  
Section 5. It is understood and agreed that the Steward must have been a member of the Union in  
whose jurisdiction the Employer is working for a period of at least one (1) year, except by permission of the  
Business Representative where conditions justify. The Steward, or his apr ointed substitute, shall work on all  
overtime work providing they are qualified to do the work.  
Section 6. A Steward, after having satisfactorily completed five (5) working days of employment for  
the Employer shall not be laid off or discharged so long as other UBC merabers are employed by the Employer,  
without just cause. In no case shall the Steward be discharged, laid off or fired until the Business  
Representative or Assistant Business Representative has been notified to the effect that his work or conduct is  
unsatisfactory. If, after a thorough investigation, it can be proven that the Steward is incompetent or  
insubordinate then he shall be discharged and the Business Representative or Assistant Business Representative  
shall appoint another Steward. When the Employer's work force is temporarily cut down with only a Foreman  
remaining on the job and the Steward is laid off, when rehiring, the Steward, if available, shall be the first man  
re-employed, providing he is qualified to perform the work.  
Section 7. In no instance shall the Steward be discriminated against because of his affiliation with  
the Union or because of his activities on behalf of the Union.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### PRE-JOB CONFERENCE  
Section 1. No Employer covered by this Agreement shall commence a job until the pre-job  
conference has been held. Such pre-job conference shall be held not less than forty eight (48) hours before a  
job commences. However, if the parties agree, the pre-job conference may be done by fax, phone, electronic  
communications, or in person.  
Section 2. At the pre-job conference, the Employer shall advis2 the Local Union of its requirements  
as to the workmen required in the respective classifications, the probable starting date, duration of the job, the  
working schedules and shall be required to submit in writing the names, address, telephone number and the  
contact person of all subcontractors performing bargaining unit work under this contract when available.  
Section 3. The above section will not apply providing the job continues not more than five (5)  
working days. It is agreed that 2 contractor working within the jurisdiction of the Local Unions, parties of this  
Agreement, shall notify the Business Manager before starting this work.  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### HIRING  
Section 1. On each jobsite the Employer may employ one key person who may be the first man on  
the job, from any area. This Employee may be designated by the Employer to be a Foreman or a General  
Foreman.  
Section The Employer may at any time recall by name from the Local Union having jurisdiction,  
employees who have special skills or previous work experience with the: Employer within the preceding twelve  
(12) months.  
Section 3. All other applicants for employment in the various classifications required by the  
Employer shall be referred to the Employer by the Union except as othe:wise provided herein.  
Section 4, The Employer shall be the sole judge of the competency and qualification of individuals  
referred by the Union and the number of Employees required at any timc. No manning clauses shall apply  
unless specified in this Agreement.  
Section 5. There shali be no restriction on the movement of ]imployees between jobs of the  
Employer within the jurisdiction of a Local Union.  
Section 6. When a job falls within the jurisdiction of two (2) or more Local Unions, the Local  
Unions involved shall promptly determine a formula for jointly manning the job.  
Section 7. The Employer shall have free movement of regula7 UBC Member Employees within the  
jurisdiction of the Mid-Central Illinois Regional Council of Carpenters with at least one (1) of the workmen  
referred from the Local Union, whose jurisdiction that jobsite is located in, who shall be Steward, unless  
Employees are not available from the Local Union. It is understood that the provisions of Article VI, Union  
Representation, shall apply. In order to be considered a regular employe::, the employee shail have worked  
more than forty (40) hours for the Employer in the previous ninety (90) days. On alli jobs requiring more than  
four (4) employees, the fifth (Sth) and tenth (10th) employee shall be frorn the Local Union having jurisdiction  
over the geographic area of the job until a full crew of twelve (12) employees is reached. In the event the job  
requires a second crew, the Local Union having jurisdiction over the geo;raphic area of the job shall furnish the  
first employee and the Employer the second alternating in this manner fo: the remainder of all needed  
employees on the job.  
It is understood that for the purposes of Article VIII, Section 7, current and regular employees of the  
employer from the Local having jurisdiction over the job shall be countec. as the fifth (Sth) and tenth (10th)  
employee.  
The Employer shall have free movement of Local #1051 men within the forty-one (41) county  
jurisdiction of Millwright Local Union #1051, affiliated with the Mid-Central! Regional Council of  
Carpenters.  
Section 8. The parties further recognize the provisions of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age  
Discrimination Employment Act, the National Labor Relations Act, Executive Order 11346 and any  
Affirmative Action Programs of the parties.  
### ARTICLE VHl  
HIRING (Continued)  
Section Legal Authorization. The Employer is exclusively engaged in the building and  
construction industry and the parties have elected to come under the provisions of Section 8(f), Part 3 of the  
National Labor Relations Act, as amended, which permits the parties to mzke an Agreement requiring the  
Employer to:  
(A) Notify the Local Union of opportunities for employment provided, however, that the Employer  
reserves the right of recall of former Employees who have within the previsus twelve (12) months performed  
work under this Agreement by notifying the Union.  
(B) Give the Local Union an opportunity to refer qualified applicants for employment.  
(C) The Employer shall advise the Local Union of all available openings and job requirements at least  
forty-eight (48) hours excluding Saturday and Sunday prior to the Employer's fulfilling such job requirements.  
(D) Men so referred shall not be given preference of priority by the Employer over non-referred men  
and the Employer shall have the sole and exclusive right of accepting or rejecting the men so referred.  
(E) Whenever any words are used in the masculine gender in this contract, they shall be construed as  
though they were also used in the feminine gender.  
(F) All present Employees who are members of the Union on the ¢ffective date of this Agreement shall  
be required to remain members of the Union as a condition of their employment.  
Any Employee who fails to become a member of the Union or fails. to maintain his membership therein  
in accordance with provisions of this Article shall forfeit his rights of and the Employer shall  
within two (2) working days of being notified by the Union in writing as tc the failure of an Employee to join  
the Union or maintain his membership therein, discharge such Employee. For this purpose the requirements of  
membership and maintaining membership shall be consistent with State ard Federal Laws. The Employer shall  
not be deemed in default unless he fails to act within the required period receipt of registered or certified  
written notice.  
(G) Repeal and Greater Security. In case of repeal or amendment of the Labor Management  
Relations Act of 1947, or in case of new legislation rendering permissible any Union security to the Union  
greater than that specified in this paragraph of this Agreement, then, and in such event, such provisions shall  
automatically be deemed substituted in lieu thereof. In such event, and if »ermissible under law, the Union  
agrees to supply adequate, competent and qualified Employees for the job requirements of the Employer in the  
classifications covered by this Agreement.  
(H) After the Employer has advised the Local Union of all availat le openings and job requirements at  
least forty-eight (48) hours excluding Saturday and Sunday prior to the Eniployer's needs, upon failure of Union  
to refer such needs adequately the Employer is free to hire from any sourc2 whatsoever.  
14  
   
### ARTICLE VIII  
HIRING (Continued)  
Section 9. (Continued)  
(I) A Contractor, who employs Carpenter members, who are nct members of Millwright Local Union  
#1051, has the right to use that member on existing Millwright work, if additional personnel in the Millwright  
trade is needed, the referrals shall come from Millwright Local #1051.  
A Contractor who employs Millwright members, who are not members of the Local Carpenters Union in  
the Area, has the right to use that member on existing Carpenter work, if additional personnel in the Carpenter  
trade is needed, the referrals shall come from the Local Carpenter Union in the Area.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### FOREMAN, GENERAL FOREMAN, WORKING FOREMAN  
Section 1. When three (3) or more Employees in the bargaining unit are working on the same job  
site, one (1) bargaining unit Employee shall! be designated by the Employer as Foreman. When there are twelve  
(12) or more bargaining unit Employees working at the job site, then the: Foreman shall not be required to work  
with his own tools. Nor shall he be required to supervise more than eleven (11) employees.  
Section 2. When additional crews are established at the job site then the first man shall be  
designated by the Employer as Foreman.  
Section 3. General Foreman. When three (3) crews of bargaining unit employees are working on  
the same job site there shall be a General Foreman who shall be required only to give instructions to three (3)  
Foremen.  
Section 4. Working Foreman.  
(A.) Only Journeyman covered by this Agreement shall be eligible to be selected as Foreman when  
the contractor makes his decision that foremen are required to supervise the work.  
(B.) | When the Contractor determines it to his best interest to assign a working foreman to layout the  
work to be accomplished by the Carpenter, Lather, or Millwnght, he shail appoint at his discretion, the  
individual of his choice from among those he normally employs or has h.red for the project, without  
interference by the Union, provided they are members of the bargaining unit.  
(C.) Additional working foremen may be required to supervise and/or direct further operations when  
the number of employees exceeds the abilities of the Job Superintendent or the first appointed working  
Foreman, therefore the Contractor shall have the latitude to appoint additional working Foremen in the numbers  
he feels is required to properly organize and progress his work without interference by the Union.  
(D.) On all shift work the Contractor shall have the latitude to request the Foreman or Foremen to  
start early or stay over after their regularly scheduled shift to advise the siicceeding Foreman or supervisor of  
the project details, of which the Contractors agrees to pay the agreed to rzte of pay for the overtime required and  
above his regular scheduled shift of eight (8) hours.  
(E.) Foreman and General Foreman giving instruction to Employees of the Bargaining Unit shall be  
Journeyman members of a Local Union affiliated with the Mid-Central II] inois Regional Council of Carpenters.  
This subparagraph may be waived by a Representative of the Union only.  
1S  
### ARTICLE IX  
### FOREMAN, GENERAL FOREMAN, WORKING FOREMAN (Continued)  
Section 4. (Continued)  
(F.) | Working Foreman shall have no authority to, nor shall they exercise any of the functions  
customarily exercised by Supervisors as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, as amended; nor shall  
they in any way be deemed to be an Agent of the Union.  
### ARTICLE X  
### GENERAL CONDITIONS  
Section 1.‘ There shall be no restriction on the Employers sole and exclusive right under this  
Agreement to determine the size of the work force on any particular job or project, except as noted in Article II,  
Section 12. Nor shall there be any restriction on the Employers sole and exclusive right to man or not to man  
any equipment. There shall be no standby work demands.  
Section 2. The parties reaffirm their policy of a fair day's work for a fair day's wage. Employees  
shall be at their place of work at the starting time and shall remain at their place of work until the quitting time.  
Scheduled quitting time shall include a reasonable time to clean up.  
Section 3. There shall not be any organized coffee breaks, rest periods or other non-working time  
established during working hours. Employees may take individual thermos of coffee, or non-alcoholic  
refreshments to their assigned place of work and consume same as time and work schedule allow.  
Section 4. When Employees leave the project of their own acc ord at other than the normal quitting  
time, it is their responsibility to notify their Supervisor.  
Section 5. When an Employer, upon reasonable cause, considers it necessary to shut down a job to  
avoid the possible loss of human life, or because of an emergency situation that could endanger the life or safety  
of an Employee, Employees will be compensated only for the actual time worked. In such an event, if the  
Employer requests the Employee to stand by, Employees will be compens:ited for the standby time at the  
applicable rate.  
Section 6. Only upon reasonable cause shall Employees on the job submit to personal and/or vehicle  
inspection by the Employer. The job site steward shall be at all inspections along with Employer designee for  
any such inspections.  
Section 7. Foremen and General Foremen shall take orders only from the designated Employer  
Representative.  
Section 8. Within one (1) hour after starting time, sanitary drir.king water and individual drinking’  
cups shall be furnished by the Employer on each job. Ice water, or cooled water will be furnished  
from May | to September 30.  
### ARTICLE XI  
### HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME  
Section 1. The regular work week will start on Monday and conclude on Friday. Eight (8)  
consecutive hours exclusive of one-half (1/2) hour lunch period between ‘he fourth (4th) and fifth (Sth) hour  
after the starting time, between six o'clock (6:00) a.m. and five o'clock (5 00) p.m. shall constitute a normal  
work day. Starting time for the work day may be changed within these hours by the Employer to take  
advantage of daylight hours, weather conditions, shift or traffic condition. Notice of such change will be given  
forty-eight (48) hours in advance. All the Employees of an Employer on the job site shall have the same  
starting time except when other arrangements are mutually agreed to.  
Section 2. All Employees who report for work at their scheduled starting time shall receive two (2)  
hours show up pay except in the case of inclement weather. If requested l»y the Employer, Employees must  
remain on the job two (2) hours to earn show up pay.  
Employees who start work are guaranteed four (4) hours pay unless work is curtailed because of  
inclement weather, or emergency conditions as set forth in Section 5 of Article X, in which case Employees  
shall be paid only for the actual hours worked.  
After the first four (4) hours Employees will be paid only for actual time worked.  
Section 3. All work performed by an Employee in excess of e: ght (8) hours in any one day, Monday  
through Friday, and all Saturday work shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) times the hourly  
rate. Sundays and Holidays shall be paid at the double time rate. After ten (10) hours in any one day,  
Employees shall receive one-half (1/2) hour lunch and an additional lunch every four (4) hours after that. All  
lunch or supper periods after eight (8) hours of work shall be paid at the a;»propriate overtime rate.  
Section 4. 8 Hour Work Day-Monday through Friday only. Ir. the event of a lost workday on  
account of inclement weather, Saturday may be a voluntary make up day bby mutual agreement between the  
Business Representative and the Employer. Provided however, that employees shall receive premium pay when  
any other craft working on the job at that time receives premium pay from the Employer. There shall be no  
retaliation or discrimination towards employees that decline make up  
Section 5. If an Employee is recalled to the job site after the completion of his regular work shift,  
he shall a minimum of four (4) hours overtime pay or overtime pa‘ for actual hours worked if more than  
four (4) hours.  
Section 6. By prior agreement between the Employer and the Council or Local Union  
Business Manager, if a special shift 1s required by an Owner and if the Employer is required to perform work  
which cannot be performed during regular working hours, an Employee may work a special shift and shall  
receive eight (8) hours pay at the appropriate rate. Seven (7) hours work r ot including a one-half (1/2) hour  
lunch shall constitute a full shift. No Employees may work on a special shift if he has performed bargaining  
unit work that day during the regular working hours. The Employer’s request for this special shift must include  
the starting date, the approximate number of employees involved and the estimated conclusion date.  
17  
### ARTICLE XI  
### HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME 'Continued)  
Section 7. When work is performed by Employees covered by this Agreement on that portion of a  
project that extends beyond the geographical jurisdiction of the Mid-Ceatral Ilinois Regional Council of  
Carpenters into the geographical jurisdiction of another United Brotherhood of Carpenters Regional  
Council/Local Union, it is agreed that for all such work the employees covered hereunder will receive the other  
Regional Council/Local Union's hourly wage and fringe benefit rates, if they are higher than those provided in  
this Agreement.  
Section 8. Shift Work. When so elected by the contractor, shifts of at least three (3)  
consecutive days duration may be worked. When two (2) or three (3) skufts are worked, the first shift (day shift)  
shall be worked between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) a.m. and four-thirty (4:30) p.m. Workmen on the day  
shift shall receive eight (8) hours pay at the regular hourly rate for eight (8) hours work.  
The evening shift shall be worked between the hours of four-thirty (4:30) p.m. and twelve thirty (12:30)  
a.m. Employees on the evening shift shall receive eight (8) hours pay at the regular hourly rate for seven and  
one-half (7 1/2) hours work.  
The night shift shall be worked between the hours of twelve-thirty (12:30) a.m. and eight o'clock (8:00)  
a.m. Employees on the night shift shall receive eight (8) hours pay at the regular hourly rate for seven (7) hours  
work.  
If only two (2) shifts are to be worked, the Employer may regulate starting times of the two (2) shift  
operations to permit the maximum utilization of daylight hours.  
A lunch period of thirty (30) minutes shall be allowed on each shift.  
Shift clause shall apply on regular work week only, twelve-thirty (12:30) a.m. Monday through twelve-  
thirty (12:30) a.m. Saturday. All other work performed on Sunday or Hclidays and all hours worked other than  
the regular shift hours shall be paid according to the overtime provisions in this Agreement.  
There shall be no pyramiding of rates and double the straight time rate shall be the maximum  
compensation for any hours worked.  
If other hours and conditions are to be observed with respect to shift work, they shall be by mutual  
consent of the Contractor involved and the Union Business Manager or Regional Council.  
In the event that Employees are changed from one shift to another, there shall be eight (8) hours lapse  
between shifts otherwise overtime wage rate shall be applicable.  
By prior agreement between the Employer and the Union Business Manager, if the Employer is required  
to perform work which cannot be performed during regular working hours an Employee(s) may work a special  
shift, limited to seven (7) hours work included lunch, and receive eight (8} hours pay for the seven (7) hours  
worked.  
No Employee may work on a special shift if he has performed bar zaining unit work that day during the  
regular working hours.  
### TR  
### ARTICLE XII  
### OPTIONAL 4-10 HOUR WORK WEEK  
Section 1. |§ By mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer, a work week consisting of  
four (4) ten (10) hour days may be utilized on a project.  
Section 2. The work day shall consist of ten (10) hours worked between the hours of six o'clock  
(6:00) a.m. and five thirty (5:30) p.m., including lunch.  
Section 3. The work week shall consist of four (4) ten (10) hour days commencing at six o'clock  
(6:00) a.m. Monday and ending at five thirty (5:30) p.m. Thursday.  
Section 4, All hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours per day, Monday through Thursday shall be  
paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) the regular rate of pay.  
Section 5. In the event that weather conditions or other acceptable conditions to the Union prevent  
work from being performed on a regular work day, then Friday shall be considered a regular work day at the  
straight time rate of pay (only to attain forty (40) hours per week) providec! however, that employees shall  
receive premium pay when any other craft working on the job at that time receives premium pay from the  
Employer. If Friday is worked as a regular work day, then any work performed on Saturday will be paid at the  
time and one-half (1 1/2) rate of pay.  
Section 6. In the event that the regular four (4) ten (10) hour days are worked and an Employer  
wants to work Friday, then all hours worked on Friday shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) the  
regular rate of pay. In such case, any time worked on Saturday shall be paid at the double time rate of pay.  
Section 7. Sundays and Holidays shall be paid at the double tirne rate of pay.  
Section 8. The Employer shall provide the Union with the starting date and the conclusion date so  
that it may be determined that such request is not for the purpose of circum:venting the overtime provisions of  
this contract.  
Section 9. When Employees are required to work beyond ten (10) hours per day, they shall receive  
an additional lunch period.  
### ARTICLE  
### WAGES, FRINGES AND PAYDAW  
Section 1. Except as specifically set forth in subsequent sections of this Article, all Employers agree  
to be bound by the wages, fringe benefits, dues deducts, apprenticeship, triining and other industry  
advancement funds, affecting Employees which have been negotiated and legally established pursuant to  
bonafide collective bargaining, the Employer will be presented with such «evidence by the Union and the  
Employer will, subject to the provisions of the Agreement, conform his of eration accordingly.  
Section 2. No subsequent change in wages or working conditions in such area will become effective  
insofar as the Employer is concerned, except to the extent that any such cl.ange in wages or working conditions  
will be agreed upon and in accordance with the effective date agreed upon in negotiations between the Local  
Union having jurisdiction over the area and a recognized bargaining agent of the Employer(s) in such area and  
no conditions shall be imposed thereby other than those in force on local firms.  
19  
### ARTICLE XII  
### WAGES, FRINGES AND PAYDAY (Continued)  
Section 3. | New wages and fringes shall become applicable upon consummation of applicable local  
collective bargaining agreements. New working conditions shall apply provided they do not conflict with the  
terms and provisions of this Agreement.  
Section 4. _All fringe benefits shall be paid on hours for which work is performed, such as one and  
one half (1 & 1/2) times fringes shall be paid for all one and one half (1 :& 1/2) overtime. Double rate fringes  
shall be paid for all double (2) rate overtime. Benefits paid at overtime rates shall be Pension, Annuity and  
Health and Welfare. All other check offs and deductions will be paid at straight time rate.  
Section 5. The Union shall have the right to picket for non-piyment of wages, fringes and/or other  
deducts from employee's check, after giving five (5) days notice to the Owner's Representative.  
Section 6. |§ Any Employee assigned to perform work that requires premium pay shall receive not less  
than four (4) hours premium pay in addition to his minimum wage rate fer any work performed in the a.m., and  
not less than four (4) hours premium pay in addition to his minimum waj'e rate for any work performed in the  
p.m.  
An Employee designated to work as top man on sheet piling or the man assigned to working the leads  
shall receive not less than fifty cents ($.50) per hour above the minimum wage rate.  
Section 7. The regular payday shall be once a week on Friday or such other day as the Employer  
shall designate prior to the start of the job. When the regular payday is a Holiday, then the last work day before  
that Holiday shall be payday.  
Section 8. Wages shall be payable before quitting time and are to be paid in cash or other legal  
tender. The weekly payroll shall end no earlier than the third work day p-ior to payday. Accompanying each  
payment of wages shall be a separate statement identifying the Employer by name and address, showing the  
total earnings, the amount and purpose of each deduction, number of hours and net earnings.  
Section 9. If no work on payday, the pay check shall be availz.ble at the job site, or other mutually  
agreeable location, not later than two (2) hours from the starting time.  
Section 10. | Employees who are laid off on a day that is not the regular pay day may clatm their final  
paycheck in person on the next regular pay day or have it overnight mailed to the Local Union Hall. If mailed,  
the check shall be dated for the actual day of layoff. If the check is not at the respective Local Union Halli the  
following day (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays) the employee shall receive two (2) hours pay at the  
straight time rate for each day the check 1s late. When an employee quits of his own accord, he shall wait for  
the regular payday for his wages.  
Section If an Employee is made to wait beyond the time hi: wages are due, he shall be paid at the  
straight time rate for all the time he waits. Employee must wait on job site: on which he/she is employed.  
20  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### HOLIDAYS  
Section 1. Only the following Holidays shall be observed: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth  
of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving in lieu of Veterans Day and Christmas Day.  
The above Holidays shall be observed according to National Law, where Ifa holiday is on a  
Sunday, then that holiday will be celebrated on the following Monday. If the holiday is on a Saturday, then the  
holiday will be celebrated on the preceding Friday.  
Section work will be performed on Labor Day under any consideration, except in an extreme  
emergency and then only after consent is given by the Business Manager.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
Section 1. The Employer agrees not to subcontract out any Carpenter work to be done at the site of  
construction, alteration, painting or repair of a building, structure or other except to a person, firm or  
corporation signatory to this Agreement. The furnishing of materials, supplies or equipment and the delivery  
thereof shall in no case be considered as subcontracting.  
Section 2. Subcontractors coming under this Agreement must show proper insurance and agree to  
pay fringe benefits as provided in this-Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
Section 3. This Article shall not apply to Owner designated Subcontractors. Further, the Contractor  
agrees to notify the Union of such designated Sub-contractors when he becomes aware of same.  
Section 4. At the time of the pre-job conference the Local Area Business Manager will bring to the  
attention of the Employer the availability of materials and/or services in the area. The Employer will make an  
effort to use such materials or services if possible.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
Section 1. As used in this Agreement, the term "jurisdictional dispute" shall be defined as any  
dispute, difference or disagreement involving the assignment of particular work to one class or craft of  
Employees rather than to a different class or craft of Employees, regardless of that Employer's contractual  
relationship to any other Employer, Contractor or Organization on the site.  
Section 2. In the event of any dispute involving craft jurisdiction the Employer shall forthwith notify.  
the appropriate Representatives of the craft involved of the existence of such dispute, and convene a meeting  
with such Representatives for the purpose of attempting to resolve such dispute among the affected parties.  
Section 3. In the event the jurisdictional dispute is not settled, it shall be referred to the  
Jurisdictional Dispute Committee consisting of three (3) Employer Representatives, selected by the Association  
and three (3) Union Representatives, selected by the Regional Council. A Meeting of the committee shall be  
convened within ten (10) days upon proper notification to all Committee raembers through their respective  
Organizations. The determination of the Jurisdictional Dispute Committee by majority vote of those present  
shall be binding on all parties bound to this Agreement.  
1  
   
### ARTICLE XVI  
### JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES (Continued)  
Section 3. (Continued)  
Should the Jurisdictional Dispute Committee be unable to resolve the matter, the Union, the Employer  
or the Association shall refer the matter to immediate arbitration by so notifying the affected parties and  
utilizing the Arbitration Article of this Agreement.  
Section 4, There shall be no stoppage of work or slow down by Employees or lockout by the  
Employer, during the implementation of the above procedure for the settlement of jurisdictional disputes  
between crafts.  
Section 5. The Employer shall submit in writing when reque sted by the Union, information  
regarding past, current and future job assignments. The Employer shall comply with such request not later than  
three (3) working days.  
Section 6. The Union agrees that it will not file suit over jurisdictional issues provided that the other  
craft party to the dispute agrees to same.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
Section 1. it is specifically agreed that there shall be no strikes, lockouts or cessation or slowdown  
of work or picketing over any dispute over the application or interpretation of this Agreement and that all  
grievances and disputes, excluding jurisdictional disputes, shall be handled as herein provided, except as  
addressed within this Agreement in Article XXII, Section 7, Trust Agreements.  
Section 2. Should any Employee or the Employer covered by this Agreement believe that they have  
been unjustly dealt with or that any provisions of this Agreement has been or is being violated, such grievance  
shall be handled in the following manner:  
(A) The Employee or Employer shall immediately report such grievance to the Steward or Business  
Representative, as the case may be, who shall go with him to the superintendent or Employer's Representative  
on the job site and endeavor to have same adjusted.  
(B) In the event such complaint or grievance cannot be satisfactorily settled in this manner, the matter  
shall then be submitted in writing, within twenty-four (24) hours, to the Business Representative of the Union or  
the Union's Representative and a Representative of the Employer, who shall be selected by the Employer to act  
on such grievance.  
### ARBITRATION  
Section!. —_In the event such complaint or grievance shall not Lave been satisfactorily settled, the  
matter shall then be submitted to an Arbitration Committee of three (3) for final decision. This Committee shall  
be selected as follows:  
2?  
   
   
### ARTICLE XVII  
### GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
### ARBITRATION (Continued)  
Section 1. (Continued)  
One (1) member shall be selected by and representing the Union, one (1) member shall be selected by  
and representing the Employer, and these two (2) shall select a third imparial member who shall act as  
Chairman. This Committee shall hold hearings as expeditiously as possibl2, and render its decision in writing  
without undue delay (within five (5) days) and the decision of the Committee shall be final and binding on both  
parties. Should the Management Representative and the Union Representative on the Arbitration Committee  
fail to agree on a third impartial member, then the parties shall jointly request the Federal Mediation and  
Conciliation Service to submit a list of seven (7) recognized Arbitrators. From the list so submitted, the parties  
would then within five (5) working days after receipt thereof select the Arbitrator by the alternate rejection of a  
suggested name until one (1) remains, the person whose name so remains shall act as Arbitrator.  
Section 2. The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to, detrac: from or in any way modify the  
terms and provisions of this Agreement.  
Section 3. The Arbitrator named by the Union and the Arbitrator named by the Employer shall serve  
as such without compensation; necessary expenses of the hearing, including any compensation for the third  
Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties hereto.  
Section 4. _—It is distinctly understood that hours of labor, rates cf pay and the use of the Union Label  
are not subject to Arbitration.  
Section 5. Any and all disputes, stoppages, suspensions of work and any and all claims, demands or  
actions resulting therefrom or involved therein shall be settled and determined exclusively by the machinery  
provided for settlement of grievances, including final arbitration.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### NO STRIKE--NO LOCKOUT  
Section 1. During the term of this Agreement there shall be no strikes, picketing, work stoppages,  
slow downs, sympathy strikes or other disruptive activity for any reason by the Union or by any Employee and  
there shall be no lockout by the Employer.  
Section 2. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limut or restrict the right of the Union or  
the Employer to pursue fully any and all remedies available under law in the event of a violation of this Article.  
Section 3. Employees shall have the right within the limits set by Section 8(b) 4 of the National  
Labor Relations Act, as amended; and it shall not be a violation of this Agreement or any cause for discharge or  
any other penalty if an Employee or Employees (covered by this Agreement) refuse to go through an  
established picket line.  
73  
   
### ARTICLE XIX  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
   
Section 1. Should any part of or any provision herein contai:ied be rendered or declared invalid by  
any reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation, or by anv decree or order of a court or board of  
competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining  
portion hereof; provided, however, upon such invalidation, the parties signatory hereto agree to immediately  
meet to renegotiate an article or provision which will meet the objections to this invalidity, and which will be in  
accord with the intent and purpose of the article or provision in question.  
Section 2. The remaining part of provisions shall remain in full force and effect.  
### ARTICLE XX  
### T.E.A.M.  
Section 1. The parties recognize the value to the Community and to the Construction Industry of a  
joint Labor-Management Committee serving the Construction Industry. To this end the parties agree to  
participate in, support and, in part, fund the operation of the T.E.A.M. T.E.A.M. contributions represent a joint  
and matching contribution on behalf of each Employer and each Employee of crafts signatory to this  
Agreement. In the event that T.E.A.M. contributions are discontinued, the existing wage scale shall be  
increased by an amount equal to half of the contribution rate at the time such contributions are discontinued.  
Section 2. The contribution rates for the above Labor Management Fund shall be paid as reflected  
on the appropriate area wage addendum.  
### ARTICLE XXI  
### APPRENTICES  
Section 1. Upon an Employer having at least two (2) Employes of the Bargaining Unit in his  
employ, he may be allowed one (1) Apprentice by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee.  
Section 2. Upon an Employer having three (3) Employees of “he Bargaining Unit in his employ, he  
must, if available, work one (1) Apprentice and, thereafter, the Employer must work one (1) additional  
Apprentice for each additional three (3) Employees of Bargaining Unit eraployed. All Apprentices must be  
approved by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee.  
Section 3. Apprentice who should fail to comply with the Apprenticeship standards, the rules  
and regulations of the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee, or who fails to attend school as required,  
or perform on the job training satisfactorily, shall be given notice in detail in writing of the alleged violations by  
the Employer or the joint JATC prior to termination of employment. The Employer or the joint JATC agrees to  
extend this notice to the Employee and the Business Representative of the Local involved, upon receipt of the  
notice of alleged violation by registered or certified mail from the Joint Apprenticeship and Training  
Committee. An Employee so notified, if he believes that the facts upon which this violation is based are untrue,  
may challenge such facts by filing a written statement with the Local Union and the Employer within three (3)  
working days thereafter. A hearing shail be held within three (3) working days after the filing of such statement  
by the Apprentice before an equal number of Employer and Union for the purpose of passing  
upon the claim of such individual. In the event of a disagreement between the Local Union and the Employer,  
the matter shall be deemed in dispute and submitted to Arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration Provisions  
of this Contract. Ifthe Apprentice does not so file, he shall be discharged after the three (3) days have elapsed.  
24  
   
### ARTICLE XXI  
### APPRENTICES (Continued)  
Section 4. first year Apprentice shall be allowed to use any power tools, nor shall he be allowed  
to work on a hoist or tower except when such work is on the ground unt!] he has received the proper safety  
instructions. Such instruction to be given in the first six (6) months of the training at Apprenticeship and  
Training School. In no case shall an Apprentice do any rigging until he has had one (1) year of training.  
Section 5. Apprentices shall be paid wages according to the wage scale set forth in the current  
Addendum attached hereto or as set forth by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee.  
Section 6. There shall be a Master Apprentice Committee comprised of an equal number of Union  
and Employer Representatives who will be responsible for the Apprenticeship Programs in each of the affiliated  
Local Unions in the Regional Council.  
Section 7. | Apprenticeship Contribution will be thirty two ($.32) cents for duration of agreement. If  
both parties agree that additional funds are needed for the Training Progam, the contribution rates may be  
increased.  
Section 8. Carpenters International Training Fund and Carpenters Labor  
Management/Education/Development Fund. In addition to any contributions otherwise called for herein, the  
parties agree that the Employer shall make a contribution of four cents ({: .04) per hour worked for each  
Employee covered by this Agreement to the Carpenters International Trzining Fund. The parties also agree that  
the Employer shall make a contribution of two cents ($ .02) per hour worked for each Employee covered by this  
Agreement to the Carpenters Labor Fund. Payment shall be made to the  
Carpenters International Training Fund and the Carpenters Labor/Management/Education Development Fund  
on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the month of the work performed. The Employer  
hereby agrees to be bound by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust “or the Carpenters International  
Training Fund and the Carpenters Labor/Management/Education Development Fund as they exist and as they  
may be amended or restated, and to such rules, regulations and other governing documents adopted pursuant to  
such Trusts. Upon request, the Employer may receive the latest Annual |Xeport prepared for the Carpenters  
Training Fund, and/or the Carpenters Labor/Management/Education Dev 2lopment Fund.  
Section 9. Training. [t is recognized that failure to provide training opportunities for Joumeymen  
and Apprentices, and the failure of these individuals to take advantage of these opportunities stands as a  
impediment to the competitiveness of the area's unionized construction industry. It is also acknowledged that  
training will have a discernible, positive effect upon productivity and quelity for the industry. It is further noted  
that verifiable training offers a strong marketing concept for Contractors, thereby enhancing employment  
opportunities for Union Labor. These concepts also promote pride and sitisfaction in building tradesmen,  
which, in themselves, are marketable attributes.  
Management and Labor therefore pledge to work towards the devzlopment of intensified, innovative  
training programs designed to improve quality, safety and productivity in a competitive environment. To this  
end, the Unions may provide to Employers current lists of those tradesmen that successfully complete upgrade  
training programs so that they will be naturally rewarded through increas:d work opportunities for reinvesting  
in their collective futures. |  
It is further agreed that the Unions will provide to Management Associations specific information on the  
scope of any Journeyman upgrade training.  
245  
### ARTICLE  
### TRUST AGREEMENTS, ETC.  
Section 1. The Employer agrees that Pension and Welfare Find contributions under this Agreement  
are to be made to the Independent Employee Benefit Corporation, Central Illinois Carpenters Health & Welfare  
Fund, Construction Industry Welfare Fund of Central Illinois, and Danville Carpenters Pension and Annuity  
Fund at the hourly rates approved as directed by Regional Council or Local Union affiliates wage addendum,  
and that such contributions are to be made on behalf of all persons covered by this Agreement for all hours  
worked by such persons for the Employers.  
The Employer agrees to be bound by the terms of the Trust Agrezments establishing the various above  
mentioned Funds, as they now exist and as they may hereafter be amended, as if the terms of such Agreements  
were fully set forth herein. The Employer understands and acknowledges that the Trustees of those Funds have  
the right to make reasonable rules relating to the administration of the Finds, including rules pertaining to the  
payment of fringe benefit contributions as specified in this Agreement, and pertaining to their nghts and  
remedies as against Employers who are delinquent in making payment of such contributions to the Funds. The  
Employer agrees to be bound by such rules as currently exist or may frorn time to time be established or  
amended. Copies of such rules can be obtained by the Employer by request from the various Funds  
Administrator.  
Section 2. Supervisor Clause. The bargaining unit shall als include, for purposes of Pension and  
Welfare Fund contributions only, such persons in the employ of the Employer referred to herein as  
"Supervisors," as that term is defined in the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, provided  
that such Supervisor:  
(A) has heretofore been included as a member of the "bargaining unit” on any basis, under the terms of  
this Collective Bargaining Agreement, any predecessor Collective Bargaining Agreement, or any other  
Collective Bargaining Agreement entered into by this Local Union or Regional Council, and  
(B) was an Employee on whose behalf within the five (5) year period prior to the effective date of this  
Agreement contributions were required to be made or were in fact made ‘‘o any of the various Funds as specified  
above for at least five thousand (5,000) hours worked.  
It is expressly understood that the purpose of this provision is limited solely to permitting persons who  
have participated in the aforesaid Pension and Welfare Funds as member: of the Bargaining Unit to continue to  
do so upon their promotion to Management positions, and is in no respec’ intended to include such persons  
within the scope of the Bargaining Unit for purposes of Union membership, Collective Bargaining or any other  
provisions of this Agreement other than provisions governing the payment of Pension and Welfare  
contributions.  
It is further understood and agreed that since such Supervisors are not subject to the wage provisions of  
this Agreement, and may be paid on a salaried basis, contributions on behalf of such persons to the Pension and  
Welfare fund shall be on the basis of one hundred sixty (160) hours for ezch and every month during which  
such Supervisor receives any wages from the Employer.  
### IA  
   
   
### ARTICLE XXII  
### TRUST AGREEMENTS, ETC. (Continued)  
Section 3. Language for Company Owners/Sole Proprie‘ors that are not Incorporated.  
Owners and/or Sole Proprietors engaged in the industry may participate in the Pension, Annuity, and Health and  
Welfare Funds provided, however, that the appropriate Agreements and Declarations of Trust and/or  
Administrative Rules of the appropriate Trusts specifically authorizes such participation. Each Owner/Sole  
Proprietor must contribute to the Fund the appropriate contribution rate adopted by the Trustees based on the  
number of hours actually worked. The Owner/Sole Proprietor must notify the Local Union in writing not less  
than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of May 1° of each year as to whether or not each Owner/Sole  
Proprietor opts for said coverage and agrees to the terms and conditions of this Article and the Agreement and  
Declaration of Trust for the Fund. In the event that each Owner/Sole Proprietor opts for the coverage, it is  
specifically agreed and understood that such coverage shall continue for the duration of the current Collective  
Bargaining Agreement.  
Section 4. ¥orms, Payment Date and Audit Rights. Forms to be supplied by the Trustees of the  
various Funds shall be completed by each Employer and the Employer shall transmit the required amounts to  
the depository on or before the 15th day of each month for all contributions attributable to the prior calendar  
month. In the event the Trustees of any Fund or the Union question the authenticity or accuracy of the  
information completed on the forms or in the event of a belief that the amounts being transmitted are not in  
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Trustees of any Fund er the Union shall have the right after  
giving notice to inspect the books of any Employer or to have an examination of same made by a Certified  
Public Accountant. In the event any discrepancy is discovered, the Employer shall bear the accounting cost  
incurred by the Trustees of the Union.  
Section 5. Required Documents. Prior to or immediately upon any Employer becoming signatory  
to the Agreement they shall furnish the following to the Union:  
(A) A Certificate of Workman Compensation Insurance Policy issued by a Company authorized to  
do business in the State of Illinois.  
(B) Employer's State and Federal Tax Identification Numbers.  
(C) Acopy of the Illinois State Certificate regarding Unemployment Insurance Compensation.  
(D) A Surety or Certified Check in full amount of bond required may be required of any Employer  
who was not signatory to the previous Agreement or has been listed as a delinquent contributor by Health and  
Welfare and/or Pension Funds included in this Agreement. In the event that any Employer, covered by this  
Agreement, should become delinquent, such Employer shall be required to post a bond in the amount specified  
below, or at the Union's option, provide a cash bond in the same amount.  
One (1) to Five (5) Employees $ 30,000.00  
Five (5) to Ten (10) Employees 45,000.00  
Ten (10) to Fifteen (15) Employees 60,000.00  
Fifteen (15) or more Employees 75,000.00  
Section 6. Each Employer shall be required to furnish, at his cost and expense, a bond, with a  
recognized and responsible corporate surety or cash, in an amount determ ined by the Regional Council  
guaranteeing the payment of wages, all payroll deductions and fringes as set forth in Addendum A or he shall  
deposit and maintain with the Regional Council, as collateral security for the payment of wages and fringes an  
amount in cash or in securities acceptable to the Regional Council. The amount of bond, cash or securities shall  
be based upon an estimated amount equal to thirty (30) days wages and fringes. After the Employer has  
employed Employees of the Union for two (2) years without default in payment of wages and fringes, he will  
not be required to furnish such bond or securities.  
27  
   
### ARTICLE XXII  
### TFRUST AGREEMENTS, ETC. (Continued)  
Section 7. Failure to Comply. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, the Union shall have the  
right to picket for nonpayment of wages, fringes and/or other deducts from Employee's check, after giving five  
(5) days notice to the Owner's Representative, Contractor and Sub-Contractor where applicable.  
Failure of the Employer to comply with the provisions of Articles J, I] or VII, Pre-job Conference shall  
permit the Union the same options upon giving of thirty (30) hours notice to the same parties. It is understood  
that time is of the essence as regards to compliance and in order to be in full compliance an Employer will have  
to comply with the requirements of the Agreement at the time specified therein. The remedy provided for  
herein for the Union, not be exclusive of any other remedy by the way of suit in law or in equity, or  
otherwise whether brought by the Union or in the case of the Fringe Benefit Funds, by the Trustees or  
Administrators of any of the Funds.  
### ARTICLE XXIII  
### EMPLOYERS WORKING  
Section 1. Three (3) Owner/Partners may work with their tools on construction projects within the  
Mid-Central Illinois Regional Council, but must observe and comply with all applicable work rules and by-  
laws, and shall remit all fringe benefits, dues checkoff and assessments in in accordance with this  
Agreement on all hours worked.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### TOOLS & EQUIPMENT  
Section 1. Cutting and Welding. Employees covered by this Agreement shall do all cutting and  
welding whether acetylene or electric when used in connection with any work within the jurisdiction of this  
Agreement. Any employee covered by this Agreement in cutting or welding shall be furnished an Employee,  
from within the bargaining unit, currently on the job site to watch after his safety and to protect him from fire, if  
it is determined necessary by the Job Superintendent.  
The Employer shall furnish when engaged in any burning or welding, if required, such protective  
clothing as gloves, sleeves, aprons, and hoods.  
All Employees who are engaged in certified welding shall receive not less than fifty cents ($ .50) per  
hour above the minimum hourly rate of pay.  
Section 2. The Employer shall furnish all drill bits, hacksaw blades, files, taps and dies, all socket  
wrenches of over 1/2" drive, all power tools and all star drills.  
Section 3. Employers and Employees shall observe all necessary safety precautions.  
Section 4, No power tools shall be used on any job of the Employer that are found to be unsafe by  
the Steward or Business Representative of the Local Union.  
Section 5. All Employees shall have their tools sharp when they report to work on a job.  
Section 6. The Employer shall provide, as required by job a suitable shed or facility for  
the exclusive use of Bargaining Unit Employees. Such facilities shall be heated, lighted and ventilated.  
### IR  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### TOOLS & EQUIPMENT (Continued)  
Section 7. | Hand Tools that an Employee is Required to 'urnish. Each Employee is required to  
furnish, for his individual use only, all of those hand tools customarily required of an Employee to perform his  
duties.  
Section 8. Tools that an Employer is Required to Furnish. The Employer shall furnish all power  
operated tools, machinery and equipment, pop-rivet guns, dry-wall squares, Whitney punches, metric tools, dial  
indicators, micrometer over one inch (1), precision levels over eight (8”), adjustable wrenches over  
twelve inches (12”), sockets over one-half inch (1/2”) drive, open-end or box wrenches over one and one-eight  
inches (1 1/8”), taps, dies and reamers. The Employer shall replace all expendable tools such as drill bits, taps,  
hack-saw blades, files, hammer handles, etc. that are worn out or broken on the job that an Employee may use  
in the performance of his duties.  
Section 9. Employers Responsibility for Employees Tools that are Lost because of Fire, Theft  
or Water Damage. The Employee shall at all times be responsible for iis own tools during working hours. In  
the event said tools are stored in the job tool box or tool shed under the control of the Employer; in which case  
the Employer agrees to assume responsibility for theft, fire or water dam age of all tools not to exceed Four  
Hundred Dollars ($400.00) for Carpenter Tools and One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for Millwright Tools.  
When said tools are lost or damaged by cause as herein stated, the Emplwyer agrees that he will, within three (3)  
working days, replace the tools with like quality tools, or if they are not ::vailable at that time will reimburse the  
Employee for his loss at current replacement value. If requested by the the Employee will furnish a  
complete inventory upon arrival at the job site.  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### MISCELLANEOUS  
Section 1. At least one (1) Carpenter shall be employed during the pouring of concrete in or on  
forms built to hold concrete except when pouring concrete in forms for s:dewalks, slabs on grade, curbs and  
gutters. He will perform such work as assigned in the area within view of the pour.  
Section 2. Tool Crib. At any time Tool Cribs are used on jols and an Employer is made  
responsible for issuing such tools and equipment as are used by members of the Bargaining Unit, a Bargaining  
Unit Employee shal! be placed in charge of such facilities in order that such tools or equipment may be  
maintained and issued in good order.  
Section 3. The Employer shall furnish or have reasonable conveniently toilets for  
Employees on all jobs.  
Section 4. These toilets shall be placed at the time work starts and continued until such time as the  
permanent toilets are put in operating condition. Whenever temporary toilets are to be provided, they shall be  
provided with water for flushing and shall be connected to a sanitary sewer, or shall be of a chemical type. In  
case of chemical toilets, these units will be serviced as needed or required to keep them in a sanitary condition.  
Pit privies will not be permitted.  
29  
### ARTICLE XXVI  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
Section 1. It is agreed that the Union will have the option of accepting contributions in Health and  
Welfare, Annuity, Training Fund and Pension Fund in lieu of wages with the approval of the Trustees of the  
respective Funds.  
In the event the contributions required to be paid into the respective Health and Welfare is increased by  
order or resolution of Trustees at a later date, such increase shall be deducted by the Employer from the  
Employee's wages and the Employer shall remit such increases to the respective Funds. Provided, however,  
that the change is made at the anniversary date of the Agreement.  
Section 2. If payment is not received in the Fund Office on or before the day of the month due, such  
payment is subject to a late payment charge plus collection costs.  
Section 3. Upon receipt of notice in writing to the Employers from the Union, the Employer shall  
contribute an amount, as designated in such notice, to an Annuity plan in lieu of wages. The contribution for  
such an Annuity plan shall be paid in lieu of wages, and shall be effective on the next anniversary date of the  
Agreement, unless the Annuity contribution is deducted from the Pension :ontribution, then it shall be effective  
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days advance notice. For example, if such notice is  
given on May 20, the contribution shall be effective July 1.  
Section 4. = Apprenticeship - Training Funds, IAF Funds and Dues Check Offs shall be in accordance  
with the Area Agreements. These Funds shall be increased or decreased the anniversary date of the  
Agreement if possible. In case of necessity, these Funds shall be increasecl or decreased on the first day of the  
calendar month following thirty (30) days advance notice. For example, if such notice is given on May 20, the  
contribution shall be effective July 1. The Trustees, through their Fund Auditor, may examine the pertinent  
payroll records of each Employer at the Employer's place of business, whenever such examination is deemed  
necessary or advisable by the Trustees in connection with the proper administration of the trust.  
Each Employer shall pay all fringe benefits and check offs and deductions on all Employees into the  
respective Fringe Benefit Funds in the jurisdiction of each Local Union within the Regional Council in which  
the Employer has been working.  
### ARTICLE XXVH  
### INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUND  
Section 1. — Associations signatory to this Agreement, with an Industry Advancement Fund,  
hereinafter called IAF, shall be financed by payments provided for the purpose of the said IAF, which purposes  
shall be generally, to benefit and promote the building construction industry. Provided, however, that no  
expenditure from said Fund shall be made for any activity injurious to the Union.  
3A  
### ARTICLE XXVII  
### INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUND((continued)  
Section No part of the Funds allocated for the Industry Aclvancement Fund shall be spent directly  
or indirectly for any of the following purposes:  
(A) Promotion of legislation opposed by the Union or opposition to legislation favored by the Union;  
(B) Subsidies, indemnities or payments of any kind to Contractors during, for, or in connection with a  
period of strike, lockout or work stoppage;  
(C) Litigation before any court or administrative body against tt.e Union or the payment of any  
expenses directly or indirectly involved in any such litigation;  
(D) Publicity or Public Relations Campaigns tn support of Manz gement's position respecting pending or  
prospective bargaining negotiations with the Union;  
(E) Any activity injurious to the Union.  
Section 3. Failure to make IAF contribution shall be deemed a direct violation of this agreement.  
Any employer signatory to this agreement who fails to make the IAF coritribution shall be subject to a penalty  
of ten percent (10%) of the previous month’s non-payment. Additional penalties of ten percent (10%) shall be  
due every thirty (30) days thereafter, until payment is made. A non-contributing contractor will also be subject  
to all reasonable legal collection fees relating to the non-payment of the | AF contribution.  
### ARTICLE XXVIII  
### CHECK OFF PER CAPITA TAX  
Section 1. Upon receipt of an Employee's written authorization, \vhich shall be irrevocable for not more  
than one (1) year, or the termination of Agreement, whichever occurs sooner, the Employer shall deduct from  
such Employee's wages in the amounts provided in the Addendum of this. Agreement, the dues; for the Mid-  
Central Illinois Regional Council of Carpenters and the wage assessment Local Union Funds with which the  
Local Unions are party hereto and affiliated and remit same to the duly authorized Representative of the Mid-  
Central Illinois Regional Council of Carpenters and the Local Unions as «lirected in writing by said Council  
together with a list of the names of Employees from whose pay deductions are made.  
Such written authorization may be revoked by the Employee by written notice by registered or certified  
mail to the Employer, the respective Local Union, and the Mid-Central II_inois Regional Council of Carpenters  
received by all during the ten (10) day period prior to the end of any appl cable yearly period, or during the ten  
(10) day period prior to termination of any applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement, whichever occurs  
sooner. In the absence of such revocation, sent and received in accordance with the foregoing, the authorization  
shall be renewed by an additional yearly period or until the end of the Collective Bargaining Agreement,  
whichever occurs sooner.  
31  
### ARTICLE XXIX  
### REPORTING  
Section 1. |§ Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the Contractor from stopping an Employee  
from coming to work at any time so long as the Employee is notified in adequate time before leaving his place  
of residence; the distance the Employee has to travel to the job shall be taken into consideration along with an  
understanding with the Employee as to the time he usually leaves for work. Employees may be notified either  
by radio station, in person or by telephone. It will be the responsibility of the Contractor or his designated  
Representative to obtain the address and telephone number of his Employees covered by this Agreement for the  
purpose stated above, and those Employees who cannot furnish an adequate way of contact shall sacrifice their  
rights for show-up time pay.  
### ARTICLE XXX  
### INCORPORATION OF ADDENDUM  
Section 1. Minimum hourly wages, Health and Welfare payments, Pension Fund payments,  
Apprentice and Training Fund payments, Mid-Central Illinois Regional Council of Carpenters Funds, Annuity  
Funds and Industry Advancement Fund are included in the Addendum which is attached hereto and  
incorporated herein. The duration of said Addendum, unless otherwise sp::cified, shall be the same duration as  
hereinafter provided. During the life of this contract wages will be paid to the Employees working for the  
Employer according to the wage scale set forth in the current Addendum t: this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XXXII  
### PROTECTIVE AND LIFE SAVING EQUIPMENT  
Section 1. The Employer shall provide all items of personal, protective and life saving equipment as  
required by Federal or State regulations.  
Section 2. The Employer shall furnish safety helmets and rain gear including boots when necessary  
and safety helmets will be worn by Employees at all times.  
Section 3. The Employer shall have the right to discharge any Employee who fails to observe and  
follow all required safety rules and regulations after the Employee has been instructed and warned by the  
Foreman.  
Section 4. It is expressly agreed that employees covered under this Agreement shall not be  
disciplined for refusing to work with, on, or under unsafe equipment or conditions, as defined by O.S.H.A.  
Regulations.  
Section 5. —_ It is recognized that there are important roles to be performed by both Management and  
Labor in the prevention of accidents and ensuing a safe and healthy working environment. The worksite should  
be maintained in a clean and orderly state, so as to encourage efficient and safe operations.  
It is important to succeed in this cooperative effort because it is also recognized that failure can mean  
emotional and financial hardship for the Employee and a threat to the security of his or her family.  
It is because of these mutual benefits that Labor and Management }ledge to do all that is possible to  
maintain a safe, hazard-free working environment for all on the job, incluc.ing initial and continuous training,  
regular inspections, establishment of emergency procedures and the commitment and cooperation of the parties  
to this Agreement.  
32  
### ARTICLE XXXI  
### PROTECTIVE AND LIFE SAVING EQUIPMIENT (Continued)  
Section 6. The Union should assist the Employer in maintaining safe work sites by promoting safety  
training to the employees covered under this Agreement. It is agreed that employees should complete an  
O.S.H.A. 10-Hour Safety and Health Training Course and any certified O.S.H.A. approved Training Program  
offered by the MCIDC Apprenticeship and Training School.  
### ARTICLE XXXII  
### MUTUAL AMENDMENT  
Section I. This Agreement shall be subject to amendment at any time by mutual consent of the  
parties hereto. Such amendment shall be reduced to writing; state the effective date thereof and be approved  
and executed in the same manner as this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE  
### DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY  
Section 1. Whereas employers signatory to this agreement and the Mid-Central Illinois Regional  
Council of Carpenters shall use and be bound to the rules and procedures as outlined in the Mid-Central  
Joint Labor Management Substances Abuse Testing Program. Which prohibits the use, abuse, presence in the  
body, or reporting to work under the influence, bringing onto the worksi:e, the unlawful manufacture,  
unauthonzed drugs, controlled substances, alcoholic beverages or drug r:lated paraphernalia by employees and  
any of the foregoing 1s a violation of this program and will subject the eraployee to disciplinary action, up to  
and including immediate termination.  
Section 2. Effective May 1, 2006, the Union and the Employr agree to establish and adequately  
fund a substance abuse consortium. Funding for this consortium will be provided through a two cents ($.02) per  
hour Employer contribution and a two cents ($.02) per hour Employee deduction. Said monies shall be  
deposited in a trust overseen by trustees appointed from the Employer and the Union, who shall generally be  
responsible for ensuring that substance abuse testing be carried out in conjunction with Policy and Procedures,  
which shall be considered as part of this agreement. It is likewise undersiood that the Employers by this  
contract are bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust governing the Mid-Central Illinois Carpenters  
Joint Labor Management Substance Abuse Testing and Assistance Program. The payment shall include along  
with other remittances provided for under this agreement and at such time: and places as other remittances are  
made to the designated Fund Office on behalf of all Regional Council affiliated Locals, and shall be paid on or  
before the fifteenth (15") day of each month following the calendar month in which hours were worked.  
Section 3. Employers agree that employees shall be paid lost time at straight time rate when  
required or notified for Drug/Alcohol testing not to exceed two (2) hours. The employer shall receive and be  
paid for actual time lost by the “Fund” up to two (2) hours reimbursement for Carpenter/Millwright employees  
tested. However, in no case shall this exceed more than two (2) hours reirnbursement.  
Employers failing to require an employee to report for a test when so notified shall be liable for a  
payment equal to twice the current reimbursement, payable to the drug ani alcohol fund. Thus the contractor is  
charged four (4) hours of the employee’s normal wage and benefit rate. A.J] employers signatory to the  
collective bargaining contract agree to implement this policy for all UBC :nembers including all Supervisors  
and Foremen.  
33  
### ARTICLE XXXIll  
### DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY (Continued)  
Section 4. Employees taking prescription medication which according to their physician has physical or  
mental side effects which could cause impairment on the job site, must report the medication to site supervision.  
Employees who report use of lawful medication as described above shall not be disciplined for use of same.  
Section §. Determination under this provision, including the circumstances surrounding the conduct of  
the drug or alcohol test, shall be fully subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this contract to the  
same extent and in the same amount as all other grievances as defined herein.  
### ARTICLE XXXIV  
### ENTIRE AGREEMENT OF THE PARTIES  
This represents the entire Agreement of the parties. The Employer understanding that the Union is a  
fraternal society and, as such, in keeping with the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947,  
as amended, has the right to prescribe its own rules and regulations with respect to any other matters or its own  
use. However, such rules and regulations whether contained in the By-laws, Constitution or otherwise shall  
have no effect, directly or indirectly, upon this Collective Bargaining Agreement, any employment relationship  
or the relationship between the parties.  
### ARTICLE XXXV  
### DURATION  
This Agreement shall be effective May 1, 2006, and shall remain in full force and effect, until April 30,  
2009, and shall continue in force from year to year thereafter except by w-itten notice given by either party at  
least sixty (60) days, but not more than ninety (90) days, prior to April 30.. 2009, or at least sixty (60) days, but  
not more than ninety (90) days prior to April 30, of any year thereafter, ei:her party may notify the other of its  
desire to amend, modify or terminate this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XXXVI  
### CORPORATE SIGNATURE AUTHORITY AND W.AGE ADDENDUMS  
For purposes of signing any union documents, a signature must be secured from a duly authorized  
officer of the Corporation, Company, Partnership or other recognized legal structure to be considered valid and  
binding. Under most circumstances a craft employee will not be allowed t> sign on behalf of the Employer  
unless confirmation allowing this signature is received from the Company Office.  
Wage Addendum are available upon request from the Mid-Central Illinois Regional Council of  
Carpenters, affiliated Local Unions and Signatory Contractor Associations.  
34  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreem 2nt to be signed, approved and ratified  
by the duly authorized Officers of the respective parties as of the day and year first above set forth.  
### CENTRAL ILLINOIS BUILDERS MID-CENTIRAL ILLINOIS REGIONAL  
### OF AGC COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
Executive Vice President Executive Secretary Treasurer  
Having authority to sign on behalf  
of those Firms who have assigned .  
their bargaining rights to the President  
Association  
Carpenters, ‘Local Union #16  
### BUILDERS ASSOCIATION OF  
### TAZEWELL COUNTY .  
Carpenters I ocal Union #44  
Executive Vice President Carpenters Local Union #63  
Having authority to sign on behalf  
of those Firms who have assigned __  
their bargaining rights to the Carpenters Local Union #183  
Association  
Carpenters Local Union #189  
GREATER PEORIA CONTRACTORS Carpenters Local Union #269  
### AND SUPPLIERS ASSOC., INC.  
Carpenters E ocal Union #347  
Executive Vice President Carpenters I ocal Union #644  
Having authority to sign on behalf  
of those Firms who have assigned _  
their bargaining rights to the Carpenters Local Union #725  
Association  
Carpenters Local Union #742  
Carpenters Local Union #904  
Millwright Local Union #1051  
34