2012 -2015 AGREEMENT  
between  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF WASHINGTON  
And  
### WASHINGTON AND NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
### INDEX  
### PREAMBLE  
### ARTICLE  
### 1. PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT  
### 2. WORK AFFECTED  
### 3. TERRITORY OF AGREEMENT  
### 4, EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION  
### 3. UNION SECURITY  
### 6. UNION RECOGNITION AND HIRING PROCEDURES  
### 7. SUBCONTRACTORS  
### 8. HOLIDAYS  
### 9. LUNCH PROVISIONS, REST PERIODS AND SICK LEAVE  
### 10. PAY DAY  
### 11. UNION REPRESENTATIVE  
### 12. SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
### 13. SETTLEMENT OF JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
### 14. STRIKES AND PICKET LINES  
### 15. SAFETY MEASURES  
### 16. SAVINGS CLAUSE  
### 17. HOURS OF WORK  
### 18. OVERTIME  
### 19. REPORTING AND MINIMUM HOURS PAY  
### 20. MANAGEMENT RIGHTS CLAUSE  
### 21, SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
### 22, PRE-DETERMINED WAGE RATE PROJECTS  
### 23. UNION DUES DEDUCTIONS  
### 24, EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
### 29. WASHINGTON FAIR CONTRACTING FOUNDATION  
### 26. SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
### 27. WASHINGTON LABORERS-EMPLOYERS COOPERATION  
### AND EDUCATION TEAM  
### 28. LIGHT DUTY RETURN TO WORK  
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE A - CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE SCALES  
### SCHEDULE B - FRINGE BENEFITS  
### SCHEDULE C - ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
### APPENDIX 2  
### CRAFT WORKING RULES  
### APPENDIX 3  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
### APPENDIX 4  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON AREA  
### APPENDIX 5  
### HIRING OF APPRENTICES  
### APPENDIX 6  
### OPERATION OF LOCAL UNION HIRING HALLS  
### WESTERN/CENTRAL WASHINGTON LOCALS  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING FOR PRIVATE SECTOR WORK  
### WAGE & FRINGE BENEFIT RATES  
### LABORERS  
### PAGE 1  
No  
### WN  
30  
32  
33  
34  
39  
40  
42  
2012 - 2015  
2012 - 2015 AGREEMENT  
between  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF WASHINGTON  
and  
### WASHINGTON AND NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
### PREAMBLE  
This Agreement is a successive principal Agreement of the 2007 - 2012 Agreement, and all other prior  
Agreements thereto by and between the Associated General Contractors of Washington, a Chapter of the  
Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., and the Washington and Northen Idaho District  
Council of Laborers.  
For the purposes of this Agreement, the AGC of Washington is not acting as a multi-employer bargaining  
agent in a single multi-employer unit, but is acting for and on behalf of Employers who have individually  
requested the AGC of Washington to act as their individual and separate bargaining agent in individual  
Employer units. Further, each individual principal member reserves the night to review and accept or  
reject any proposed Agreement negotiated between the Union and the AGC of Washington acting as an  
agent for the individual contractor members.  
This is a collective bargaining Agreement between certain individual members of the Associated General  
Contractors of Washington, a Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. (hereinafter  
referred to as the “Employer’), and Washington and Northem Idaho District Council of Laborers  
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union’), and shall constitute an Agreement between the parties hereto for  
the work, conditions and wage rates provided for herein in the temitory of Westem and Central  
Washington.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 1  
### PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT  
SECTION 1. The purpose of this Agreement is to promote the settlement of labor disagreements by  
conference, to prevent strikes and lockouts and to stabilize wages and working conditions in building,  
heavy highway construction and engineering work in the area affected.  
SECTION 2. Bylaws of either party are not part of this Agreement. It is agreed and understood  
between the parties hereto that this Agreement contains all the covenants, stipulations and provisions  
agreed upon by the parties hereto. No agent or representative of either party has authority to make any  
promise, inducement or agreement contrary to the provisions herein.  
SECTION 3. ‘The Employer hereby voluntanly recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent  
of all employees performing bargaining unit work covered by this Agreement, and agrees that a majority  
of those employees have designated the Union as their collective bargaining representative.  
SECTION 4. The Union recognizes the AGC of Washington as the exclusive individual bargaining  
agent for each Employer who has authorized the AGC of Washington to negotiate individually with the  
Union on its behalf. Back to Index  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### ARTICLE 2  
### WORK AFFECTED  
SECTION 1. ‘This Agreement shall cover all Highway, Building, Heavy Construction and Engineering  
projects including the loading and unloading of barges or other camiers of the Employer’ s materials and  
equipment at loading facilities for the contractor’ s work performed by Employer parties to this Agreement  
in the counties outlined in Article 3, Section 1.  
SECTION 2. For clarification, Heavy, Highway and Engineering projects are defined as follows:  
construction of railroads, street railways, roads, highways, streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs and gutters,  
paving (portland cement or asphaltic concrete), airports, bridges, overpasses, sewers, water mains,  
Sanitation projects, imigation projects, flood control projects, reclamation projects, reservoirs, dams,  
dikes, levees, revetments, channels, aqueducts, channel! cutoffs, jetties, breakwaters, harbor developments,  
docks, dry docks, piers, abutments, retaining walls, transmission lines, duct lines, subways, shafts,  
tunnels, excavation of earth and rock, power generating projects, reinforced earthwork, and all other  
heavy construction and engineering operations in connection therewith, and all site clearing, demolition  
work, pipeline and refinery work when covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. For further clarification, the term “Building” shall mean a building structure, including  
modifications thereof, or additions or repairs thereto, intended for use for shelter, protection, comfort and  
convenience.  
SECTION 4. Asbestos, Lead, Mold and Toxic Waste: This Agreement shall also cover all work in  
connection with the handling, control, removal, abatement, encapsulation or disposal of asbestos, lead,  
mold and/or toxic waste.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 3  
### TERRITORY OF AGREEMENT  
SECTION 1. This Agreement shall cover all construction work in the following counties: Whatcom,  
Skagit, Snohomish, King, Pierce, Thurston, Lewis, that portion of Pacific County north of a straight line  
made by extending the north boundary of Wahkiakum County west to the Pacific Ocean, Grays Harbor,  
Clallam, Jefferson, Mason, Kitsap, Island, San Juan, Chelan, Kittitas, Yakima and that portion of Douglas  
County lying west of the 1202 mendian.  
SECTION 2. Attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement is Appendix 4 which contains any  
differences in wages, travel or working conditions for the Central Washington area.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 4  
### EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION  
SECTION 1. This Agreement shall be effective commencing June 1, 2012, and shall continue in force  
and effect through May 31, 2015. Upon its expiration, this Agreement shall continue from year to year,  
June 1 through May 31 of each year, by automatic renewal unless changed, or superceded by a successor  
principal agreement, or For the purpose of negotiating alterations in wages and other terms  
and conditions of employment, either party may open this Agreement or any contract effectuated through  
automatic renewal by giving written “Notice of Opening” not later than sixty (60) nor more than ninety  
(90) days prior to the expiration date. “Notice of Opening” is in no way intended by the parties as a  
termination of, nor shall it in any way be construed as a termination of this Agreement or any annual  
contract effectuated through automatic renewal nor as forestalling automatic renewal as herein provided.  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
The parties reserve the right to economic recourse in negotiations, except during the interval between the  
giving of “Notice of Opening” and the expiration date.  
SECTION 2. Except by mutual written agreement, termination of this Agreement or any annual  
contract effectuated through automatic renewal, must to the exclusion of all other methods, be perfected.  
by giving wiitten “Notice of Tennination” not later than sixty (60) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to  
the expiration date, whereupon the contract shall, on its expiration date, terminate. Effective temination  
eliminates automatic renewel.  
SECTION 3. Any “Notice of or “Notice of Tennination” by the lover Shall be sent via  
certified mail to the Washington & Northem Idaho District Council.  
SECTION 4. Any “Notice of Opening” or “Notice of Termination” given in hand within sixty (60)  
days of any expiration date shall be absolutely null and void and completely ineffective for all purposes.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 5  
### UNION SECURITY  
SECTION 1. ‘The employees shall become and remain members of the Union as a condition of  
employment from the seventh but not later than the eighth day of employment, or the effective date of this  
Agreement, whichever is later.  
SECTION 2. No ovyee covered by this it Shall be ired to sign or be bound by a non-  
competition agreement of any kind or nature that restricts future employment opportunities.  
SECTIONS. — Itis further agreed that all Union members employed by the Employer shall maintain  
their membership in good standing in the Union.  
SECTION 4. Failure of any employee to pay or tender nonmal initiation fees or dues as required by this  
Agreement shall, upon the request of the Union in result in the termination of such employee  
within two (2) working days, provided a replacement is available. ‘Tenination in this Article shall be  
within seven (7) working days under any circumstance.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 6  
### UNION RECOGNITION AND HIRING PROCEDURES  
SECTION 1. The Employer will call upon the Local Union in whose temitory the work is to be  
accomplished to refer qualified applicants for work in the classifications herein contained. In requesting  
applicants for work, the Employer shall notify the Local Union office either in wniting or by telephone,  
Stating the location, starting time, type of shift schedule (i.e., 5 days at 8 hours or 4 days at 10 hours),  
approximate duration of the job, the type of work to be performed and the number of employees required.  
A. All qualified applicants referred for work to an Employer shall provide to the Employer when  
reporting for work two pieces of identification, one of which has a picture of the applicant.  
B. All qualified applicants shall complete and sign W-4 and I-9 forms as requested by the Employer.  
C. An applicant who fails or refuses to submit this information or who provides false information  
when referred to an Employer shall be registered on the bottom of the appropriate out-of-work list  
for which the applicant qualifies.  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
D. An applicant who, upon a subsequent referral to an Employer, fails or refuses to submit this  
information or provides false information shall be denied use of all hiring facilities within the  
area of this District Council, unless the applicant enters into a written agreement that the applicant  
will submit the information to Employers.  
SECTION 2. | When the Employer has placed a verbal or wiitten order for referral of workers from the  
Local Union and should a shortage of applicants exist and they cannot be supplied by the Local Union  
within twenty-four (24) hours from the time workers ordered are required to report to the job, Saturdays,  
Sundays and holidays excluded, the Employer may then seek applicants from other sources. When an  
Employer so hires employees from sources other than the Local Union, the Employer shall notify the  
Union, giving the names and addresses and classifications of the employees hired within five (5) days of  
the date of employment.  
SECTION 3. ‘The Employer shall have the right to reject any job applicant, but the applicant and the  
Local Union shall be entitled to the reason for such rejection in wiiting.  
SECTION 4. ‘The Employers acknowledge and support the LIUNA Code of Performance, dated  
5/14/2010, as an effort to increase co itiveness by improving the ity and performance of the  
workforce. ‘To assist the Union with implementation of this Code of Performance, the Employers agree to  
desi disc “for cause” in when appropriate. This clause is intended only to assist the  
Union in implementing its Code of Performance with future referrals under the Union's hiring hall  
procedures. Otherwise this clause does not create any new or additional nghts for the workers or  
additional responsibility for Employers under this agreement.  
SECTION 5. Whenever an employee is discharged for cause, including failure to pass a substance  
abuse test, not able to perform the assigned work due to lack of skills or as unsatisfactory, the Employer  
agrees to send a written temination notice, within fifteen (15) working days to the Union, stating the  
reasons for tenmmination. If no notice of cause is provided, the individual shall be eligible for rehire  
without exception.  
SECTION 6. General Termination: When a registrant has been terminated as unsatisfactory or has  
been discharged for cause by at least three (3) Employers within a twenty-four (24) month period, he/she  
Shall be denied further use of all hiring halls covered by the District Council provided the Employers have  
furmished the Local Unions in waiting the reasons for such terminations or discharges. Members wishing  
to demonstrate that corrective action has been taken by them, and therefore should be allowed access to  
the hiring hall facilities, may petition the District Council’s Executive Board for an opportunity to appear  
and give their position. The burden is on the petitioning member to demonstrate that corrective action has  
been taken to remedy the issue(s) outlined in the termination letters. The District Council’s Executive  
Board shall be the sole judge as to whether such corrective action is sufficient for reinstatement.  
SECTION 6.1. When a registrant has been terminated for lack of possessing the  
necessary Skills to perform assigned duties, by at least three (3) Employers within a twenty-four (24)  
month period, satisfactory completion of additional training will be required before hiring hall privileges  
are restored in the classification in question.  
SECTION 6.2. Substance Abuse Termination: The following provision applies only to those Employers  
using the AGC-Labor Substance Abuse Program or one that has been jointly negotiated with the Union.  
In order to protect the privacy of all employees, termination notices for failure of the drug test must be  
sent “Personal and Confidential” to:  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
Business Manager  
Washington & Northem Idaho District Council of Laborers  
PO Box 12917  
Mill Creek, WA 98082-0917  
When a registrant has been terminated, and/or is deemed ineligible for rehire, for failure to pass a  
Substance abuse test, the individual shall be registered on the bottom of the appropriate out-of-work list  
for which he/she qualifies. Should the registrant be a second time within a twenty-four (24)  
month peniod for failure to pass a substance abuse test, the registrant shall be denied use of all hiring  
facilities within the area of the District Council until he/she has successfully completed a State certified  
drug/alcohol program or has been released for employment purposes by a State certified counselor, and  
continues to remain free of all prohibited substances as defined in the AGC-Labor Substance Abuse  
Program. In order to determine compliance with this section, prior to having hiring hall privileges  
restored, the registrant must sign a privacy release to allow the Union to discuss and to exchange with the  
drug/alcohol program or counselor any necessary information pertaining to the case.  
SECTION 7. Where Employers engage in a joint venture, individuals employed by a member company  
of the joint venture may be transferred to the job or called for by name by said member company of the  
joint venture within the temitory covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 8. ‘The referral procedure as contained herein shall be followed except:  
A.  
Requests by the Employer for key personne! to act as supervisors or foremen shall be honored  
without regard to the requested place on the out-of-work list. To qualify for a request  
under this Section, the employee must actually perform the duties of the position requested.  
. Bona fide requests will be honored for individuals previously employed by the Employer when  
requested by name and whose name appears on the out-of-work list and who have been legally  
employed by the Employer in the area of the jurisdiction of the Local Union.  
Note: Any individual who was previously hired illegally or improperly by the Employer may not  
seek pnionty of dispatch under this Section.  
The Employer may bring three (3) present employees at his discretion into the geographic  
junisdiction of the Local Union for each job. In such cases, the Employer transfeming such  
employees from one Local jurisdiction into another Local Union jurisdiction shall be required to  
Check in and receive clearance from the Local Union having jurisdiction over the project. Failure  
to comply with this provision may be grounds for the Union to request of said  
employees.  
. Additionally, the Employer may request by name, regardless of their respective position in Group  
A, one (1) individual for each three (3) Laborers hired. (Exception for Central Washington only:  
one (1) individual for each one (1) Laborer hired.) The provision will apply to Group A  
registrants only.  
When the Employer has placed an order for employees requiring special skills or of special  
classification, applicants possessing the qualifications of the job will be referred in the order in  
which their names appear on Group A, C or D of the out-of-work list.  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
SECTION 9. College Students: College students seeking employment during the period of May 1°  
through October 1* shall register on the Local Union’ s out-of-work list by personal call orin writing. An  
Employer (owner) desiring to hire such students shall notify the Local Union of such desire and the  
Student shall not be employed until such registration has been complied with.  
By mutual agreement between the Employer and the Local Business Manager, a college student may be  
called for by name, and be referred to the Employer without regard to his/her place on the out-of-work  
list. Such request for college students and Intems combined may be allowed on a ratio of one (1) for the  
first five (5) Laborers employed up to a total of three (3) students or Intems on any one job. However,  
this ratio may be waived by mutual agreement of the Union and the Employer.  
A college student must demonstrate that he has been accepted as a full time student and is currently  
registered in school with no less than twelve (12) credited hours of instruction.  
In the case of a formal construction related college intemship, mutual is implied herein, and  
the student shall be called for by name and will be referred to the over without to their place  
on the out-of-work list, provided such est shall not displace current é ees. All conditions  
related to ratios indicated above shall apply to this provision.  
### ARTICLE 7  
### SUBCONTRACTORS  
Back to Index  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer agrees it will not subcontract or otherwise transfer in whole or in part any  
work covered by this Agreement to be done at the site of the construction, alteration, painting or repair of  
a building, structure, or other work unless the person, firm, corporation or other business entity is  
Signatory to this Agreement. The Employer agrees that a member of the Union will be employed by the  
Employer or any contractor or subcontractor at the jobsite if there is work to be done coming under the  
junisdiction of the Union Agreement. The Union agrees that it will not take strike action to enforce this  
Article. In the event of any change in the present law, this clause will be renegotiated.  
SECTION 2. Whenever the Employer is obligated to satisfy MBF/WBE/DBE recruiting requirements,  
the Union and the Employer by mutual agreement may waive this provision prior to commencement of  
the work in the event an Employer and the Union are unable to find qualified competitive Union  
MBE/WBE/DBE subcontractors.  
SECTION 3. | When potential union subcontractors are not available in the locality of the jobsite to  
perform the work or where the general contractor receives no competitive union bids, by mutual  
agreement, the Employer and the Union may waive this provision. Provided, however, the Union and the  
Employer shall review the prices submitted before assigning the non-union subcontractor.  
SECTION 4. the total landscaping portion of a project is under two hundred and seventy-five  
thousand dollars ( $275,000) in value and there is no portion of the landscaping excluded from the project  
or bid separately, the Employer may waive this provision. For the purpose of this Section, landscaping  
Shall be as currently defined in WAC 296-127-01346.  
Back to Index  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### ARTICLE 8  
### HOLIDAYS  
SECTION 1. Holidays recognized by this Agreement shall be New Y ear’s Day, Memorial Day (last  
Monday in May), Fourth of July, Labor Day, ‘Thanksgiving Day, Friday and Saturday after'Thanksgiving  
Day and Christmas Day. Any holiday which falls on a Sunday shall be observed as a holiday on the  
following Monday. No work shall be performed on Labor Day except to protect life and property or by  
mutual agreement of the Union and the Employer. If any of the listed holidays falls on a Saturday, the  
preceding Friday shall be a regular work day.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 9  
### LUNCH PROVISIONS, REST PERIODS AND SICK LEAVE  
   
SECTION 1. Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours from the start of the  
shift without at least a one-half (?/) hour break for lunch. ‘This lunch period shall not begin earlier than  
three and one-half (3 1) hours after the start of the shift. If they are required to work past five (5) hours,  
one-half (7/2) hour at the applicable overtime rate shall be added to the hours worked and they must then  
be allowed time to eat theirlunch. If not allowed to eat lunch, employees will be paid an additional one-  
half (7/) hour of overtime.  
SECTION 2. | Employees required to work more than two (2) hours after the end of the regular shift  
Shall be allowed at least one-half (7/2) hour meal period which shall be considered as time worked, and if it  
is impractical for the employees to leave the job, they shall be provided by the Employer. If not  
given one-half (?/) hour meal period, one-half (?/) hour at the applicable overtime rate shall be added to  
the hours worked.  
SECTION 3. | Employees required to work more than five (5) hours after the end of the regular shift  
Shall be allowed at least one-half (7/2) hour meal period which shall be considered as time worked, and if it  
is impractical for the employees to leave the job, they shall be provided alunch by the Employer. If not  
given the one-half (7/2) hour meal period, one-half (?/) hour at the applicable overtime rate shall be added  
to the hours worked.  
SECTION 4. — In the event that the Employer establishes a ten (10) hour day, the first lunch period shall  
be at mid-shift. Employees’ lunch period may be staggered during the period of three and one-half (37/2)  
to five (5) hours from the start of the shift to cover necessary work of a continuous nature.  
SECTION 5. — For the purpose of this Article the applicable overtime rate following a delay/missed  
meal, as noted above, shall be as follows:  
A. Inthe event the rate of the day is straight time, the applicable overtime rate will be time and one-  
half (1/2) times the straight time rate of pay.  
B. Inthe event the rate of the day is time and one-half (11/2), the applicable overtime rate will be two  
(2) times the straight time rate of pay.  
C. Inthe event the rate of the day is double time, the applicable overtime rate will be two and one-  
half (21) times the straight time rate of pay.  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### SECTION 6. REST PERIODS  
A. ‘The nature of the construction work covered by this agreement allows intennittent rest periods.  
Employers shall provide such intermittent rest periods as work flow pennits, not to exceed ten  
(10) minutes for each four (4) hours worked. Scheduled rest periods are not required.  
B. Such intermittent rest periods shall be taken on the work site, at the employee's place of work. A  
rest period means to stop work duties, exertion or activities for personal rest and rejuvenation.  
C. Itwill be the nsibility of each lovee to take rest periods. If an employee does not take a  
rest period, then the e ee must notify his/her immediate isor and a rest peniod will be  
provided.  
### SECTION 7. SICK LEAVE  
The parties to this Agreement acknowl that given the nature of the construction i id sick  
leave is not mate and he ressly waive the provisions of Seattle City Ordinance 123698  
and/or city, state or co ordinance, rule or ation id sick leave to the lovees  
under the junisdiction of this A assuming that said ordinance, rule or ation allows for such  
a Waiver.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 10  
### PAY DAY  
SECTION 1. | Employees shall be paid in full once each week (on the same day), but in no event shall  
more than five (5) days’ (Saturday, Sunday and holidays excluded) wages be withheld.  
A. If the regular payday falls on a holiday, the employees shall be paid on the last regular work day  
before the holiday. The check must be dated for the last regular work day before the holiday.  
B. The Employer will have the following options of making payment: 1.) negotiable check made  
on a local bank, paid prior to quitting time at site; 2.) direct deposit, into employee’s  
bank account; or by mail, at the election of employee, in wiiting at the time of hire or with ten  
(10) days advance notice of a change. If paid by mail, the check shall be postmarked not later  
than two (2) business days prior to the established payday.  
C. No employee shall be discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced, transferred or have any other  
adverse action taken against hinyher for refusing to use the direct payroll deposit or mail option.  
D. The Employer shall fumish to each employee, at the time of payment of wages, an itemized  
Statement showing the pay basis (i.e., hours or days worked), rate or rates of pay, gross wages and  
all deductions from that pay period. In addition, the name, address and phone number of the  
Employer shall be indicated.  
FE. No adjustment of disputed pay will be made unless the employee or the Union shall make a claim  
in waiting to the Employer’ s representative within fifteen (15) days from the pay period in  
question.  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
SECTION 2. Employees who quit shall be paid not later than the next regular pay period.  
SECTION 3. | Employees who are laid off or discharged shall be paid not later than the end of the next  
regular business day. If the employee is on direct deposit payment, payment shall be deposited into  
employees’ bank account within two (2) business days.  
SECTION 4. _ If the payment is not made expressly as provided in this Article, then the employee shall  
be paid two (2) hours pay at the appropriate hourly wage rate for each twenty-four (24) hour period  
(Saturday and Sunday excepted, holi Shall be ex unless the ar falls on a holi  
and the check is not dated for the last regular work day before the holiday), thereafter until payment is  
made. In the case of payment by mail, the postmark on the envelope will serve as the cutoff date for any  
penalty. Employees must notify the Union within three (3) working days after the payday, layoff, or  
discharge to be eligible for penalty pay.  
SECTION 5. Non-Sufficient Funds: In the event an employee receives a non-sufficient funds (NSF)  
check, the it Shall then be made by money order or certified check. In addition documented  
bank fees or incurred by the oyee as a result of receiving a NSF check it will be  
reimbursed to the affected oyee. If a letter of explanation will be sent to the lovee’ S  
bank and any creditors that may have been affected. If an employee receives a NSF check for the second  
time in four (4) week peniods, the make-up check and all Shall be by mo  
order or certified check.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 11  
### UNION REPRESENTATIVE  
SECTION 1. Authorized representatives of the Union shall have access to the projects provided they  
do not unduly interfere with the work of employees, and that they fully comply with the safety and  
secunity procedures established for the project. On projects with restricted access, the Employer will  
cooperate with the Union officials in this regard as far as regulations pennit.  
SECTION 2. Union representatives will attempt to report to job site supervision prior to entering the  
job site.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 12  
### SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
SECTION 1. —Incases of violation, misunderstandings or differences in interpretation of this  
Agreement, there shall be no cessation or stoppage of work. Both parties pledge their immediate  
cooperation to eliminate the above mentioned possibilities, and the procedure in Section 2 is outlined for  
this purpose.  
SECTION 2. Procedure for Settlement of Disputes:  
A. Step One: In the event that a dispute arising on the job cannot be satisfactorily adjusted on the  
job between the representative of the Union involved and the Employer, the dispute shall  
promptly (not later than fifteen (15) working days), be referred to the Business Manager of the  
Local Union involved and the Employer’ s authorized representative who is vested with decision  
making authonty. Should they fail to effect a settlement, the matter shall proceed to Step Two. ]  
B. Board of Conciliation. The dispute shall be referred to the District Council and the  
Employer’ s authorized representative who is vested with decision making authonty for a Board  
10  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
of Conciliation within fifteen (15) working days. This Board shall consist of two (2) persons who  
have no direct involvement in the dispute, appointed by each party. If these four (4) persons  
cannot effect a settlement within seven ('7) days after the dispute has been referred to them, the  
matter shall proceed to Step Three. Either waive their right to a Board of Conciliation  
in Step Two, however, if this iS waived, mediation, in Step Three shall become mandatory.  
At no time will more than twe 20) workin between the conclusion of Step One and  
the decision to waive the night to Step Two.  
C. Mediation: Except as provided in Step Two, by mutual agreement, the issue may be  
referred to mediation. ‘The parties shall request a mediator from the Federal Mediation &  
Conciliation Service or other mutually acceptable service. This person shall serve as the mediator  
to resolve the dispute. ‘The expense of employing the mediator shall be bore equally by both  
parties and each party shall be responsible for their own attomey fees and costs. Should  
mediation be waived or the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall proceed to Step Four.  
D. Step Four: Arbitration: The parties shall request a list of seven (7) arbitrators from the Federal  
Mediation & Conciliation Service or other acceptable service and shall altemately stike names  
until only one name remains. This person shall serve as the arbitrator to resolve the dispute. The  
expense of employing the arbitrator shall be bome by the non prevailing party and each party  
Shall be responsible for their own attomey fees and costs.  
Any decisions shall be within the scope and terms of this Agreement. It may also provide  
retroactivity not exceeding sixty (60) days and shall state the effective date. Decisions by the  
Board shall be rendered within twenty (20) days or at their discretion after the dispute is referred  
to them, and such decision shall be final and binding upon all parties. By mutual agreement, the  
aforementioned time frames in this Article may be waived or extended.  
### Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 13  
### SETTLEMENT OF JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
SECTION 1. There will be no strikes, no work stoppages or slowdowns or other interference with the  
work because of jurisdictional disputes.  
SECTION 2. The Employer shall be responsible for all assignments. In issuing such  
assignments, the Employer shall be guided by area practice, decisions of record and jurisdictional  
agreements of record. Craft jurisdiction is neither detennined nor awarded by classifications appearing in  
any labor agreement.  
SECTION 3. If ajurisdictional dispute arises, it shall first be submitted to the Local Unions involved  
and the affected AGC Chapter for settlement, then if no understanding or agreement is reached within  
forty-eight (48) hours, the parties may refer the dispute to the Intemational Unions with which the  
disputing Unions are affiliated for resolution and the Employer shall abide by the resolution. ‘The  
disputed work shall continue as assigned by the Employer until the dispute has been resolved.  
### SECTION 4. MUTUALLY AGREED TO WORK ASSIGNMENTS: The Employer explicitly assigns  
the following classifications to be performed exclusively by members of the Laborers Union at all times:  
Pipe Layer/Tailor Caulker, Remote Equipment Operator (i.e. Compaction and Demolition), Nozzleman  
Shotcrete/Gunite, Asphalt Raker, Lead Pipe Layer, Mortanman and Hodcamier.  
11  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
SECTION 5. MUTUALLY AGREED TO TOOLS OF THE TRADE: The Employer explicitly assigns  
the work classifications to be performed exclusively by members of the Laborers Union when used as  
tools of their trade:  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 14  
### STRIKES AND PICKET LINES  
SECTION 1. — It is mutually agreed that there shall be no lockouts or other slow down or  
cessation of work by either party on account of any labor difference pending the utilization of the  
gnievance machinery, as set forth in Article 12.  
SECTION 2. | Employees will not be discharged, disciplined or permanently replaced for any protected  
activity related to the recognition of a primary picket line approved by the Union party to this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. As required by law, employees shall be fumished to the Employer during labor disputes  
with other construction crafts and the Employer will endeavor to work as long as economically possible  
during these periods.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 15  
### SAFETY MEASURES  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer and the employee will conform to all Federal and State health and safety  
regulations applicable to work covered by this Agreement and shall have adequate shelters available  
where necessary, with heat, where the employees can change and dry their clothes and store their tools.  
On all projects covered by this Agreement, there shall be provided by the Employer at all times during  
construction, sanitary facilities consisting of a reasonable number of toilets and urinals, on tunnel projects  
separate showers for men and women. Fresh drinking water will be available to the employees.  
Employer will fumish all welding, safety and protective equipment required; including, but not limited  
to, leathers, hard hats, eye protection, ear protection, respirators, safety belts and lanyards, reflective  
vests, flagging signs and paddles.  
SECTION 2. ‘This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed as creating, imposing, or  
adopting on the Union or representatives any state common-law duties in areas of safety.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 16  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
SECTION 1. This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed to penmit acts which violate  
any valid Federal or State law.  
SECTION 2. — If any provision of this Agreement or the application of such provision shall in any court  
or other Govemmental action, be held invalid, the remaining provisions and their application shall not be  
affected thereby. Provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties signatory hereto agree to  
immediately meet to re-negotiate such provisions affected. ‘The parties agree to arrive at a mutually  
Satisfactory replacement within sixty (60) days unless a definite extension of time is mutually agreed to.  
In the event that the parties are unable to negotiate a replacement, the matter shall be resolved through the  
provisions of Article 12.  
### Back to Index  
12  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### ARTICLE 17  
### HOURS OF WORK  
### SECTION 1. SINGLE SHIFT OPERATION  
A. Fight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work, five (5) days shall constitute a week’s work,  
Monday through Friday.  
B. A single shift operation shall be restricted to the hours between 5:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. and  
eight (8) hours of continuous employment (except for lunch period) shall constitute a day’ s work  
Monday through Friday of each week. In the event the job is down due to weather conditions,  
Monday through Friday, then Saturday may, at the option of the Employer, be worked as a  
voluntary make-up day at the straight time rate. However, Saturday shall not be utilized as make-  
up day when a holiday falls on Friday.  
C. Fourten (10) hour shifts at the straight time rate may be established on a project either Monday  
through Thursday or’Tuesday through Fiday. There will be no overapping of four ten (10) hour  
shifts between crews or other crafts on the same project of the Employer. In the event the job is  
down due to weather conditions, then Friday (when working Monday through Thursday) may at  
the option of the Employer, be worked as a make-up day, In the event the job is down due to  
weather conditions, then Saturday (when working Tuesday through Friday), may, at the option of  
the Employer, be worked as a voluntary make-up day. All hours worked in excess of ten (10)  
hours a day or forty (40) hours a week must be compensated at the overtime rate. However,  
Saturday shall not be utilized as a make-up day when a holiday falls on Friday.  
D. No employee shall be discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced or transferred for refusing to  
work a voluntary make-up day, provided they inform the Employer they will not be working.  
FE. Inthe event of acivil emergency such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, floods, or fires, starting  
time of the shift may be made to fit the emergency and eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24)  
hour period may be worked at straight time. In order to work such shift, mutual agreement shall  
be received.  
F. Special Shifts: When due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer or when contract  
Specifications require that work can only be performed outside the regular day shift, then a special  
shift may be worked at the straight time rate. The starting time of work will be arranged to fit  
such conditions of work. Such shift shall consist of eight (8) hours work for eight (8) hours pay  
or ten (10) hours work for ten (10) hours pay for four ten hour shifts worked in accordance with  
paragraph (c) of this Section.  
The over shall provide three (3 S wutten notice to the Union pnor to starting a ial  
shift.  
G. Holiday Week: In the event that a holiday is celebrated during the week (Monday through  
Friday), the remaining four days of the week may be worked as four ten hour shifts, as defined in  
paragraph (c) of this Section.  
SECTION 2. MULTIPLE SHIFT OPERATION: Shifts may be established when considered necessary  
by the Employer. Shift hours and rates will be as follows:  
A. Two Shift Operation: On (2) consecutive shift operation, no shift penalty is involved for  
work performed on either of these two (2) shifts. Each shift must be scheduled for at least eight  
13  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
(8) hours except as provided forin Section 1 of this Article. Ona two (2) shift operation, the  
second shift shall be established fora minimum of three (3) days. The Employer shall notify the  
Local Union pnor to the start of a two (2) shift operation. Once the starting times are established  
for the two (2) shift operation, they shall not be changed except upon three (3) working days,  
notice to the Union.  
B. Three Shift Operation: Ona three (3) shift operation, the following shall apply:  
1. First Shift - The regular hours of work on the first shift of three (3) shift operations shall  
be eight (8) hours of continuous employment, except for lunch peniod at mid-shift,  
between the hours of 5:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.  
2. Second Shift - The second shift shall be seven and one-half (7/2) hours of continuous  
employment, except for lunch period at mid-shift, and shall be paid eight (8) hours at the  
Straight time hourly wage rate.  
3. Third Shift - The third shift shall consist of seven (7) consecutive hours of employment,  
except for lunch period at mid-shift, and shall be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time  
hourly wage rate.  
C. Multiple shift ( a two (2) or three (3) shift) operation will not be construed on the entire project if  
at any time it is deemed advisable and necessary for the Employer to multiple shift a specific  
operation. ‘Those groups of employees only who relieve first shift groups of employees and such  
first shift groups of employees who are relieved by groups of employees on a second shift, and on  
a three shift operation those groups of employees who relieve the groups of employees on a  
second shift, shall be construed as working multiple shifts. The intent of this clause shall be  
construed so as to recognize that a “reliever group” and a “relief group” do not necessarily mean  
“employee for employee” relief.  
D. Itis understood and agreed when the first shift of a multiple shift (a two (2) or three (3) shift)  
operation is started at the basic straight time rate or at a specific overtime rate, all shifts of that  
day’ s operation shall be completed at that rate.  
FE. The Employer shall notify the Local Union pnor to the start of a multiple shift (a two (2) or three  
(3) shift).  
### SECTION 3. GENERAL PROVISIONS:  
A. Call Out. When employees have completed their scheduled shift and are “called out’ to perform  
special work of a casual, incidental or irregular nature they shall receive premium pay in  
accordance with the proper overtime rates with a minimum guarantee of two (2) hours pay at the  
employee’ s overtime wage rate. When an employee is called out to work without at least eight  
(8) hours off since his/her previous shift, all such call out time shall be paid at the applicable  
overtime rate until the employee has had a break of ei 8) hours or more.  
B. Paving Operations. To take full advantage of weather conditions, starting time of operations for  
the paving of asphalt paving, road oiling and concrete paving will be at the option of the  
Employer. However, standby time will be considered as part of the regular operation and will be  
paid at the regular rate.  
14  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
C. Tide Work. When employees are called out between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. to  
work broken time on tide work, all time worked shall be at time and one-half (17/2) the basic  
hourly rate of pay, and a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the straight time rate.  
Except for the above, all tide work shall be worked in accordance with provisions of the general  
Agreement.  
D. Maintenance, Watchperson and Flagger. When no other work is in progress and it is necessary to  
keep a maintenance person, watchperson, or flagger on duty on Saturdays and Sundays, they will  
be paid straight time rates but allowed two (2) regular consecutive days off each week. If these  
employees work more than five (5) consecutive days in any one week, the sixth (6°) day shall be  
paid for at time and one-half (1'/) the basic rate and the seventh (7) day shall be paid for at  
double the basic rate.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 18  
### OVERTIME  
SECTION 1. Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours of straight time per day, or ten (10) hours of  
Straight time per day when four ten (10) hour shifts are established, Monday through Friday, or outside  
the nonmal shift, and all work on Saturdays, except for make-up days, shall be paid at time and one-half  
the straight time rate. All work performed on Sundays and holidays and work in excess of twelve (12)  
hours per day shall be paid at double the straight time rate of pay.  
The Employer shall have the sole discretion to assign overtime work to employees. Primary  
consideration for overtime work shall be given to employees regularly assigned to the work to be  
on overtime situations.  
SECTION 2. After an employee has worked eight (8) hours at an applicable overtime rate, all  
additional hours shall be at the applicable overtime rate until such time as the employee has had a break  
of eight (8) hours or more.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 19  
### REPORTING AND MINIMUM HOURS PAY  
SECTION 1. Reporting Pay: Employees reporting for work and not put to work shall receive two (2)  
hours pay at the regular straight time rate, unless inclement weather conditions prohibits work, or notified  
not to report at the end of the previous shift or two (2) hours prior to the start of a shift. ‘The Employer  
may require employees to remain at the jobsite for the two (2) hours to receive such reporting pay.  
It is understood that it shall be the responsibility of the Employer to secure from each employee a  
telephone number by which to be contacted. The Employer will make every effort to notify employees of  
inclement weather conditions. If the employee does not, at the Employer's request, fummish a telephone  
number or fails to inform the Employer of any change of number at which he may be reached, then the  
Employer shall be relieved of any responsibility of notification and shall not have to pay show-up time.  
When employees, including new hires, reporting for work arrive on the job unprepared to perform the  
work required (for example, including but not limited to: under the influence of alcohol or drugs, not  
possessing the right requested certifications, or inadequately clothed), the Employer shall not have to pay  
show up time. If the employee is put to work and lacks requested qualifications employer shall pay actual  
time worked only.  
15  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
Reporting pay on overtime days shall be a minimum of two (2) hours at the applicable overtime wage  
rate.  
SECTION 2. | Employees who work less than two (2) hours shall be paid two (2) hours; they shall be  
paid a minimum of four (4) hours if required to work more than two (2) hours; they shall be paid a  
minimum of six (6) hours if required to work more than four (4) hours; they shall be paid eight (8) hours  
if required to work more than six (6) hours; and they shall be paid ten (10) hours if required to work more  
than eight (8) hours on a regularly established ten (10) hour shift. When a shift is suspended due to  
inclement weather, after the two (2) hour minimum, employees shall be paid for actual time worked.  
SECTION 3. _ If any employee refuses to start work or if any employee stops work of his own volition,  
the minimums set forth in Section 2 above shall not apply.  
SECTION 4. Any applicant who is required to report to the Employer’ s designated location for  
employment onentation shall be paid a minimum two (2) hours reporting time. Any applicant who is  
required by the Employer to travel more than thirty (30) miles from the dispatch point to the enjployment  
onentation shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours reporting ime. ‘The Employer who conducts the  
onentation at the job location and puts the applicant to work shall not be subject to the provisions of this  
Section 4.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 20  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS CLAUSE  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer retains full and exclusive authonty for the management of its operation  
unless otherwise limited by this bargaining Agreement. The Employer shall direct his working forces at  
his sole prerogative including, but not limited to hiring, promotion, transfer, layoff or discharge for just  
cause as traditionally practiced within the Construction Industry. The Employer shall utilize the most  
efficient methods or techniques of construction, tools or labor saving devices. There shall be no  
limitations upon the choice of materials or design except those imposed by safety and health  
considerations.  
SECTION 2. ‘The foregoing enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to exclude other  
functions not specifically set forth. The Employer retains all legal rights not specifically covered by this  
Agreement.  
SECTION 3. — It shall not be a violation of this Agreement when an Employer considers it necessary to  
shut down ajob to avoid the possible loss of human life, because of an emergency situation beyond the  
Employer’ s control that could endanger the life and safety of an employee. In such cases, employees will  
be compensated only for the actual time worked. In the case of a situation described above whereby the  
Employer requests the employees to stand by, the employees will be compensated for the “stand by” time.  
If such a condition continues, the Employer agrees to give at least two (2) hours notice to members of the  
next shift scheduled to report for duty. In the event that at least two (2) hours notice is not given,  
employees who report for work at their regular reporting time and are not put to work shall be paid “show  
up pay”.  
This article shall be suljject to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 12.  
### Back to Index  
16  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### ARTICLE 21  
### SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
SECTION 1. Both parties recognize that there may be extenuating circumstances when it is to the  
mutual interest of both parties to modify the terms of this Agreement. In that event, it will not bea  
violation of this Agreement for the parties to meet and mutually agree to make such modifications to meet  
a specific need on a specific project.  
SECTION 2. In order to maximize the effect of this provision, all crafts will be requested to act  
uniformly. ‘The General Contractor shall encourage his subcontractors to comply with any modifications  
granted under this provision.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 22  
### PRE-DETERMINED WAGE RATE PROJECTS  
SECTION 1. In the event the Employer bids a public job or project being awarded by a Federal, state,  
county, city or other public entity which is to be performed at a pre-determined and/or prevailing wage  
rate established or established by the U.S. Department of Labor (pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act, 40  
U.S.C.§ 3141 et seg., whose ations are contained in 29 CFR Parts 1, 3, 5, 6, and 7 and which  
determinations are published in the Federal Register) or by the Director of the Washington State  
Department of Labor and Industries (pursuant to RCW 39.12.010 to RCW 39.12.900) prevailing wages  
on public works Washington State, Prevailing Wage on Public Works, the published hourly wage rate set  
forth in said public work at the time of bid shall apply for the first twenty-four (24) months of the project  
from the date the Contractor is permitted to proceed. After twenty-four (24) months the current contract  
wage and fringe rate will apply. ‘The fringe benefit contnibution rates shall be those as established and  
maintained by the Master Agreement and any fringe increases are the nsibility of the  
Notwithstanding the above, the project agreements may be mutually agreed upon to allow use of the pre-  
determined wage rate for the duration of a project to exceed twenty-four (24) months.  
SECTION 2. In the event the specifications include an escalator provision covering wages, such  
amount will be included as an increase to wages to the extent that the Employer may recover in the  
escalator claim.  
SECTION 3. Except as provided in Article 17, Section 1 B and C (makeup days) on affected  
Washington State public works projects, all work perfonmed on S Shall be paid at time and one-  
half (11/2 the straight time rate and all work Ormed on Sundays and holi Shall be paid at double  
the straight time rate, as established by the prevailing wage detenninations for the project (overtime code  
and holiday code).  
SECTION 4. The Employer shall, when requested in wiiting, supply accurate and reliable information  
on company stationery that will assist the Union in establishing the correct rates when responding to  
Govemmental requests for prevailing wage data.  
Back to Index  
17  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### ARTICLE 23  
### UNION DUES DEDUCTIONS  
SECTION 1. Upon presentation of a proper authonzation form executed by the individual employee,  
the Employer agrees to deduct Union dues from net pay after taxes and remit same to the Union in  
accordance with applicable law. It is understood the Employers will remit each month the Union dues  
deducted in accordance with this Article on the transmittal forms used for fringe benefit contnbutions and  
that the pro-rata costs of such forms and the collection and accounting thereof will be paid by the Union  
to the fringe benefit administrator. Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 24  
### EQUAL EMPLOY MENT OPPORTUNITY  
SECTION 1. The parties to this Agreement acknowledge and agree to comply with the requirements of  
Federal and State laws, Executive Orders and other rules and regulations goveming civil nghts to insure  
that there shall be no discrimination in employment against any employee or applicant for employment  
because of age, race, color, religion, sex or national origin.  
SECTION 2. ‘The parties hereto recognize that the Employer’ s compliance with project specifications  
is of paramount importance. It is mutually agreed, therefore, by the parties to this Agreement, that  
provisions of this Agreement will be interpreted, applied and enforced in a manner that will serve to  
assure compliance with project specifications as they relate to recruiting, training and hiring.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 25  
### WASHINGTON FAIR CONTRACTING FOUNDATION  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer agrees to deduct from the net pay (after taxes) of each employee  
performing work covered by the terms of the Agreement a sum as listed in Schedule “A”, for each hour  
worked and remit same to the Washington Fair Contracting Foundation. Contributions will be made on  
the same formas the Health and Security payments.  
SECTION 2. ‘The District Council reserves the right during the life of this Agreement to disaffiliate  
from the Foundation and reallocate the monies dedicated for this endeavor.  
The pro-rata costs of such forms, collection and accounting will be paid by the Committee to the fringe  
benefit administrator.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 26  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
SECTION 1. Labor and Management are committed to providing employees with a drug-free and  
alcohol-free work place. It is the goal to protect the health and safety of employees and to promote a  
productive work place, and to protect the reputation of Labor and Management and the employees.  
SECTION 2. Consistent with these goals, the Employer prohibits the use, possession, distibution or  
Sale, at its employment sites, of drugs, drug paraphemalia or alcohol. A testing program pursuant to the  
Substance Abuse Program, may be instituted, upon mutual consent of labor and management which  
consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, to monitor compliance with this policy.  
SECTION 3. | Anacceptable Substance Abuse Program is contained in a separate addendum to this  
Collective Bargaining Agreement, but itis not a part of this Agreement and modifications to this  
18  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
Substance Abuse Program, by mutual agreement of an Employer and the Union, will not constitute a  
change to this Agreement.  
SECTION 4. Any related to any Employer’ s substance abuse program shall be resolved.  
through Article 12, Settlement of Disputes, of this Agreement.  
### Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 27  
### WASHINGTON LABORERS-EMPLOYERS COOPERATION AND EDUCATION TEAM  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer and the Union recognize that they must confront many issues of mutual  
concem which are more susceptible to resolution through Labor-Management Cooperation than through  
collective bargaining. ‘To seek resolution of these mutual concems and to advance mutual interest  
through Labor-Management Cooperative efforts, the Employer and the Union agree to participate in the  
Washington Laborers’-Employers’ Cooperation and Education Team (WALECET) which is established  
in accordance with Section 302 (C)(9) of the Taft- Hartley Act.  
SECTION 2. ‘The parties agree that the Employers shall contribute to the WALECET an amount  
provided in Schedule A for each employee covered by this Agreement. Said contnibution shall become  
effective for hours worked starting January 1, 2006 and for each month thereafter for the term of this  
Agreement.  
SECTION 3. Contributions will be made on the same form as the Health and Secunty payments. The  
pro-rata costs of such forms, collection and accounting will be paid by the WALECET to the fringe  
benefit administrator.  
SECTION 4. This Article will sunset May 31, 2015 unless the parties to this contract mutually agree to  
continue the contibutions to WALECET or to reallocate for another purpose.  
Back to Index  
### ARTICLE 28  
### LIGHT DUTY RETURN TO WORK  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer may retum an injured employee to light duty status when allowed by the  
employee's doctor. When such light duty work is available, light duty functions may not be work of  
another craft or work under classifications covered by the Master Laborers Agreement.  
SECTION 2. time will the employee's total earings be less than his/her full time loss  
compensation under insurance. Further, the employee will be provided with a full fringe  
package, as per the collective bargaining agreement, over and above total remuneration.  
SECTION 3. Should the employee on light duty have to be laid off due to no work available, the  
Employer will not adversely affect his/her ability to continue to receive loss time benefits from the  
Industrial Insurance Division of Labor and Industnies (including self-insured employers), provided they  
are still medically eligible.  
Back to Index  
19  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### APPENDIX 1  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGES  
SCHEDULE A. WESTERN WASHINGTON: To include the following counties: Whatcom,  
Skagit, Snohomish, King, Pierce, Thurston, Lewis, that portion of Pacific County north of a straight line  
made by extending the north boundary of Wahkiakum County west to the Pacific Ocean, Grays Harbor,  
Clallam, Jefferson, Mason, Kitsap, Island and San Juan.  
### SCHEDULE B. FRINGE BENEFITS  
### SCHEDULE C. ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
### APPENDIX 2  
### CRAFT WORKING RULES  
### APPENDIX 3  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
### APPENDIX 4  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON PROVISIONS  
### APPENDIX 5  
### HIRING OF APPRENTICES  
### APPENDIX 6  
### OPERATION OF LOCAL UNION HIRING HALLS  
### APPENDIX 7  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
Back to Index  
20  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### SCHEDULE “A”  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE SCALES  
SECTION 1. shall be recognized as applying to classifications and employees shall be  
paid at the rate of the classification which their work calls for.  
The wage rates in the schedules below shall become effective June 1, 2012, and shall remain in effect  
until May 31, 2015.  
### NOTE: ONLY ZONE “A” RATES ARE SHOWN FOR ALL CLASSIFICATIONS. REFER TO  
### SCHEDULE “C” FOR ZONE “B” & “C” RATE  
### SECTION 2.  
### WAGES  
### VO  
$32.59  
* ‘Total package increase. ‘The 2013 and 2014 allocation of the wage/finge will be determined sixty (60)  
days prior to the anniversary date.  
  
(These deductions are included in wages)  
iE  
June, 2012, | July | | June  
Washington $0.04 $0.04 TBD TBD  
Fair  
Contracting  
Foundation  
   
  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
Effective Date  
June 1, 2012 June 1, 2013 June 1, 2014  
$5.30 TBD  
$3.70 TBD  
$0.45  
$0.10 TBD TBD  
   
21  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
* A pprenticeship/Training- Tunnel contnibutions shall only apply to Group 6 Tunnel Work classifications  
and is an addition to the $0.45 Apprenticeship/Training contribution.  
Apprenticeship Rates: Percentage Computed on Group IIT Rate.  
Apprentices registered prior to June 1, 2012.  
Effective Date  
Je 2012 | Jue 1 2013 | Jue 1, 2014  
Apprentices registered beginning June 1, 2012 will participate in the 6000 hour program.  
me 1, 2012 | Jue 1, 2013 | Jue 1, 2014  
The fringe benefit contnbution rates for the apprentices shall be the same as forjoumeymen. However, at  
no time will apprentices’ wages rates exceed those of joumeymen for the same classification of work.  
### GROUPS  
Group 1 _ Landscaping & Planting & Inigation Sprinkler Systems (1)  
Watchman  
Window Washer/Cleaner (2)  
1. Landscape construction does not include:  
e Any activity or task when performed preparatory to any non-landscaping construction work.  
Constructing roads, footpaths, trails or rock walls more than four feet high.  
Custom fabrication of trellis work, play equipment, benches or picnic tables.  
Constructing restrooms, shelters or similar structures.  
Installing sewer systems, storm sewer systems, catch basins, vaults or drainage systems for  
impervious surfaces (such as parking lots).  
Installing drainage systems or underground sprinkler systems more than three feet below final  
grade.  
   
   
Land clearing, dozing, grading, excavating or hauling except as permitted above.  
Tree falling or bucking.  
Sub-grade preparation.  
The use of power equipment with more than ninety horsepower.  
The use of trucks with more than one rear axle except hydroseeders.  
Demolition of structures.  
Asphalt or concrete work except incidental anchorage for play equipment, benches or picnic  
tables.  
e Welding.  
e Installing agricultural imigation systems.  
Encapsulation of landfills,  
[Statutory Authority: Chapter 39.12 RCW, RCW 43.22.270 and 43.22.050. 00-15-077, § 296-127-01346,  
filed 7/19/00, effective 7/19/00. ]  
   
22  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
2. Detail clean-up, such as, but not limited to, cleaning floors, ceilings, walls, windows, etc. prior to final  
acceptance by the Owner.  
Group IIA  
Group III  
General  
Laborer  
Batch Weighman  
Crusher Feeder  
Fence Laborer Pilot Car  
Air, Gas or Flectric Vibrating Screed  
Asbestos Abatement Worker  
Ballast Regular Machine  
Brick Pavers  
Cement Finisher Tender  
Change House or Dry Shack  
Chipping Gun (Under 30 lbs.)  
Choker Setter  
Chuck ‘Tender  
Clean-up Laborer  
Concrete Form Stnipper  
Curing Laborer  
Demolition: Wrecking & Moving (Including  
charred material)  
Ditch Digger  
Dry Stack Walls  
Dump Person  
Epoxy Technician  
Erosion Control Worker  
Fine Graders  
Fomn Setter  
Gabian Basket Builders  
Grout Machine Tender  
Grinders  
Guardrail Erectors  
Hazardous Waste Worker (Level C)  
Lead Abatement Worker  
Maintenance Person  
Matenal Y ard Person  
Mold Abatement Worker  
Pot Tender  
Powderman’s Helper  
Rip Rap Person  
Scale Person  
Scaffold Erector  
Sloper Sprayer  
Stake Hopper  
Stock Piler  
Toolroom Person (At job site)  
‘Topper  
Track Laborer  
Truck Spotter  
Vinyl Seamer  
   
Note: All other Laborer work classifications not specifically listed shall be classified as General Laborer Group III.  
### LABORERS  
23  
2012 - 2015  
Manhole Builder Mudman operated tools  
Mortarman & Hodcamier Timber Person- Sewer (Lagger, Shorer  
Motorman-Dinky Locomotive & Cnibber)  
Nozzleman (Concrete Pump, Green Cutterwhen | Track Liner- Power  
using combination of high pressure air & water | ‘Tugger Operator  
on concrete & rock, sandblast, gunite, shotcrete, | Vibrator  
Water Blaster, Vacuum Blaster) Welder  
Pavement Breaker Well Point Laborer  
Remote Equipment Operator (2)  
(1) Including pressure and non-pressure ductile pipe, gravity pipe and HDPE (fused and non-fused)  
(2) i.e Compaction and Demolition  
Group V Airtrack Dnil Operator Powdenman  
Caisson Worker Re-Timberman  
Diver Hazardous Waste Worker (Level A)  
High Scaler Mortarman & Hodcamier  
Group IV Cement Dumper- Paving Pipe Layer (1) Tailer Caulker  
Chipping Gun (30 Ibs. and over) Pipe Pot Tender  
Clary Power Spreader Pipe Reliner  
Concrete Dumper/Chute Operator Pipe Wrapper  
Concrete Placement Crew Power Jacks  
Concrete Saw Operator/Core Driller Railroad Spike  
Dnill Operator (Hydraulic, Diamond) Rigger/Signal Person  
Faller & Bucker Chain Saw Rivet Buster  
Groutmen (Pressure) including Post Tension Rodder  
Beams Sloper (Over 20”)  
Hazardous Waste Worker (Level B) Spreader (Concrete)  
Jackhammer ‘Tamper (multiple & self-propelled)  
Laserbeam Operator Tamper & similar electric, air & gas  
Grade Checker & Transit Person Raker Asphalt  
   
Pipe Layer (Lead)  
Group VI Miner  
Tunnel Work Gauge and Lock ‘Tender  
70.01-72.00psi | $71.80  
| 873.80  
ated.  
Rates over 74.00 psi shall be negoti  
     
24  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
SECTION 3. Swinging Stage/Boatswain Chair. Employees working on a swinging stage or boatswain  
chair or under conditions that require them to be tied off to allow their hands to be free shall receive  
twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour above the classification rate. This provision also applies to high  
scalers when using pneumatic tools.  
SECTION 4. Cofferdam Work: Miners shall be employed on work within or behind cofferdams if  
hazard is equivalent to shaft excavation.  
SECTION 5. Compressed Air Work: The conditions for compressed air work are contained in  
Appendix 3 to this Agreement and hereby become a part of this Agreement as though contained in the  
body thereof. ‘The wage schedule is now listed under Appendix I, Schedule A, Group VI Tunnel Work.  
SECTION 6. Riggers, Bumers and Welders shall be paid according to the classification in which they  
are working.  
SECTION 7. Foreman, Asbestos, Lead, Mold or'Toxic Waste Supervisor. When one of the Laborers is  
designated to act as a Foreman, Asbestos, Lead, Mold or’Toxic Waste Supervisor, that individual shall  
receive two dollars ($2.00) per hour above the highest Laborers’ classification supervised.  
‘Traffic Control Supervisors shall receive two dollars ($2.00) above their Group ITB rate when they are  
Supervising Flaggers and/or Traffic Control Laborers.  
Foreman - When an employee has the responsibility of supervising Laborers on the project, he/she shall  
be a Laborer and shall be paid foreman’s scale. Foremen shall receive two dollars ($2.00) per hour above  
the highest paid J oumeyman Laborer classification supervised.  
The Employer has the nght to assign a non-bargaining unit employee as the Traffic Control Supervisor.  
However, if the employee performs any work of a “Traffic Control Laborer’, he/she shall be required to  
make membership in the Union in accordance with the requirements of Article 5.  
SECTION 8. Live Sewer. When Laborers are required to work in or with live sanitary sewage, they  
will receive a premium pay of forty dollars ($40.00) per day above their regular daily classification pay.  
Further, the Employer will pay for all necessary inoculations to prevent disease if requested by the  
employee and as recommended by the Department of Labor and Industnies (Industnial Safety & Health  
Division).  
SECTION 9. Fringe Option: Union option to take up to twenty cents ($0.20) from wages to apply to  
fringe benefits with sixty (60) days notice prior to any anniversary date of this Agreement. If any  
additional sums are necessary to maintain fringe benefit plans, by mutual agreement such sums may be  
deducted from wage at any anniversary date of the agreement.  
Back to Index  
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE “B”  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
SECTION 1. Health and Secunty: Itis agreed that all Employers employing employees within the  
geographical area covered by this Agreement shall contnbute a sum as listed in Schedule “A”, for each  
hour worked by all employees performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union  
membership. Said contributions shall be made to the Northwest Laborers-Employers Health and Security  
‘Trust Fund in the manner as set forth in the Trust Agreement of said ‘Trust Fund. ‘The details of the  
Health and Security Plan established by this Trust Fund shall continue to be controlled and administered  
20  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
by Board of ‘Trustees composed of equal representation from the Unions and the Chapters of the  
Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., who are signatories to the Trust Agreement of the  
aforesaid ‘Trust Fund. Each trustee appointed by the Union shall be a member of the Union, or a regular  
paid employee of the Union. Each trustee appointed for the Employer after June 1, 2003, shall bea  
member with assigned bargaining nights, of an affiliated firm of the Chapters, that is making regular  
contnbutions on compensable hours to the Trust or a regular paid employee of the Chapters of the  
Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. The‘Trust Agreement, as amended, shall become a part  
of this Agreement.  
SECTION 2. — Pension:  
A. Itis agreed that all Employers employing employees within the geographic area covered by this  
Agreement shall contnilbute a sum, as listed in Schedule “A,” for each hour worked by all  
employees performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said  
contnibutions shall be made to the Westem Washington Laborers-Employers Pension Fund in the  
manner as set forth in the Trust Agreement of the said Trust Fund. ‘The details of the Pension  
Plan established by this Trust shall continue to be controlled and administered by a Joint Board of  
Trustees composed of equal representation from the Unions and the Chapters of the Associated.  
General Contractors of America, Inc., who are signatories to the Trust Agreement of the aforesaid  
Trust Fund. Each trustee appointed by the Union shall be a member of the Union, or a regular  
paid employee of the Union. Each trustee appointed for the Employer after June 1, 2003, shall be  
a member with assigned bargaining rights of an affiliated firm of the Chapters, that is making  
regular on compensable hours to the Trust or a regular paid employee of the  
Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. The Trust Agreement, as  
amended, shall become a part of this Agreement. Contnbutions will be made on the same form  
as Health & Secunity payments.  
B. Itis agreed that a portion of the negotiated contributions to the Pension Fund in 2A above, in an  
amount determined by the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund in consultation with the Pension  
Fund actuary, may be remitted to a Non-Qualified Excess Benefit Trust to be utilized as  
necessary to establish, fund and administer the Non-Qualified Excess Benefit Trust and a Non-  
Qualified Excess Benefit Plan under guidelines established in Intemal Revenue Service Letter  
Rulings. ‘The Excess Benefit Plan will be used solely to provide pension benefits to the Pension  
Fund participants whose benefits are otherwise limited by the Intemal Revenue Code Section  
415. The Excess Benefit Plan and Trust will be administered by a Board of Trustees, consisting  
of the same Trustees who administer the Pension Fund. The Pension Fund Trustees are granted  
the authority to establish and maintain the Excess Benefit Plan and Trust, provided that the  
language of the Excess Benefit Plan will allow for its termination if continuing benefits under the  
Excess Benefit Plan will impair the funding status of the Pension Plan, or if legislation is adopted  
modifying Intemal Revenue Code Section 415 to such an extent that the Excess Benefit Plan is no  
longer required. In such event, the remaining articles and sections of this collective bargaining  
agreement shall be unaffected and shall otherwise remain in full force and effect.  
SECTION 3. Credit Union: It is agreed that all Employers employing employees within the  
geographic area covered by this Agreement shall subtract a sum, as listed in Schedule “A” from each  
net pay check (after taxes), for each hour worked by its employees performing work covered  
by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said contributions shall be made to the Qualstar  
Credit Union. Contributions will be made on the same formas Health & Security payments and that the  
pro-rata costs of such forms and the collection and accounting thereof will be paid by the Union to the  
fringe benefit administrator.  
26  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
SECTION 4. ‘Training: It is agreed that all Employers employing employee within the geographic area  
covered by this Agreement shall contnibute a sum, as listed in Schedule “A”, for each hour worked by all  
employees performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said  
contributions shall be made to the Northwest Laborers-Employers Training Fund in the manner as set  
forth in the Trust Agreement of said Trust Fund. The details of the Training Program established by this  
Trust Fund shall continue to be controlled and administered by a Joint Board of Trustees composed of  
equal representation from the Union and Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of America,  
Inc., who are signatonies to the Trust Agreement of the aforesaid Trust Fund. Each trustee appointed by  
the Union shall be a member of the Union or a regular paid employee of the Union. Each Trustee  
appointed by the Employers after June 1, 2003 shall be a member with assigned bargaining nights of an  
affiliated firm of the Chapters that is making regular contnbutions on compensable hours to the Trust ora  
regular paid employee of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. ‘The Trust Agreement, as  
amended shall become a part of this Agreement. Contributions will be made on the same formas Health  
& Secunty payments.  
SECTION 5. Economic Action: In the event an Employer fails to make the monetary contnibutions in  
conformity with this section of the Agreement, the Union is free to take any economic action against such  
Employer it deems necessary, including, but not limited to, the removal of all employees covered by this  
Agreement and such action shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement.  
SECTION 6. — Rights of Parties: It is understood that the Union and Employer Associations are  
principal parties to all ‘Trust Agreements and are, therefore, entitled to full information on the action of  
the trustees and the operation of the ‘Trust.  
SECTION 7. ‘Trust Agreements: The individual ‘Trust documents are part of this Agreement as if  
included herein, but may be amended during the term of this Agreement and such amendments when  
adopted by the parties shall also become part of the Agreement.  
SECTION 8. Consolidation Study: The trustees may have a study made to see if it would be beneficial  
to the funds and their recipients if any or all of the trusts were consolidated or merged with the Trust  
Funds of any other'Trusts. If the study shows that a consolidation or merger would be beneficial, then the  
Bargaining Committee will consider such merger. The trustees have the authority to investigate, evaluate  
and present their recommendations to the negotiating committee regarding merger, consolidation,  
amalgamation, joinder or other similar situations. The trustees’ authonity, in this respect, shall be limited  
to the power to prepare and recommend agreements to consummate the same and to recommend the  
transfer of the monies and properties of the said Trust Fund or Funds to any successor trust.  
SECTION 9. — Itis agreed by the Employers within the area covered by this Agreement that this section  
covering the Employers’ ‘Trust Fund contributions shall continue as a separate written agreement  
including the legal remedies for collection of contnbutions during the period of negotiations for a new  
agreement, and may be enforced by the Trust Funds in either State or Federal Court, at the election of the  
Trust Funds.  
Back to Index  
2/  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE “C”  
### ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
SECTION 1. The payment for transportation rembursement shall be govemed by the following  
provisions:  
The parties recognize that it is sometimes inconvenient to get to the job location because of  
varying distances. Itis agreed and understood that while traveling to and from work, the  
employees are not within the course and scope of their employment and the relationship of  
Employer-employee does not commence until hourly wage commences.  
SECTION 2. ‘The parties therefore adopt the following provisions for wage scales:  
### POR THE FOLLOWING WESTERN WASHINGTON CITIES:  
Aberdeen Kent Seattle  
Bellingham Mt. Vemon Shelton  
Bremerton Olympia ‘Tacoma  
Centralia Port Angeles  
Everett Port Townsend  
Zone Pay Remuneration:  
A. All jobs or projects located within twenty-five (25) radius miles of the respective city halls of the  
above mentioned cities shall receive the basic rate of pay for all classifications (Zone A) as listed  
in Schedule “A”.  
B. All jobs or projects located more than twenty-five (25) radius miles and less than forty-five (45)  
radius miles from the respective city halls of the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone “B”  
allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased by one dollar ($1.00) per hour.  
C. All jobs or projects located more than forty-five (45) radius miles from the respective city halls of  
the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone “C” allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be  
increased by one dollar and thirty cents ($1.30) per hour.  
### SECTION 3.1. FOR THE FOLLOWING CENTRAL WASHINGTON CITIES:  
Chelan Sunnyside Wenatchee Yakima  
Zone Pay Remuneration:  
A. All jobs or projects located within twenty-five (25) radius miles of the respective city halls of the  
above mentioned cities shall receive the basic rate of pay for all classifications (Zone A) as listed  
in Appendix 4.  
B. All jobs or projects located more than twenty-five (25) radius miles from the respective city halls  
of the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone “B” allowance. ‘The basic rate of pay shall be  
increased by two dollars and twenty-five cents ($2.25) per hour.  
28  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
SECTION 3.2. FOR ELLENSBURG: All jobs or projects located more than twenty (20) radius miles  
from the Ellensburg City Hall shall receive Zone “B” allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased  
by two dollars and twenty-five cents ($2.25) per hour.  
ans ION4. Toll Bridges & Ferry Fares: All necessary ferry or other forms of water transportation  
made necessary by the special conditions of a specific project are to be reimbursed by the Employer in the  
following instances and manner:  
A. Employees will be reimbursed tor Ue fare or passenger’ s carfare when substantiated  
by receipts, within thirty (30) days of expense.  
B. When employees elect to temporarily live at or near the project and forego daily ferry travel, itis  
recognized that they are entitled to the prerogative of visiting their homes for the weekend, and in  
that event charges shall be paid for such weekend travel as substantiated by receipts, submitted  
within thirty (30 of  
C. When circumstances make it necessary that a toll bridge be utilized, the employees will be  
reimbursed accordingly.  
D. ‘This Section 4 shall not be interpreted to include “nonmnal” commuting costs.  
SECTION 5. Board & Lodging: When an Employer provides camp or board and lodging, the basic  
wage scale will be observed and the rate for camp or board and lodging will not exceed fifteen dollars  
($15.00) per day to be paid by the employee. Any costs over fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day will be  
absorbed by the Employer. On jobs in remote areas where camp or board and lodging is not provided and  
housing is inadequate or the cost of housing is prohibitive the Employer will make every effort to arrange  
for housing at reasonable rates to his employees.  
On jobs where an Employer establishes a camp with board and lodging, or where the Employer prohibits  
private vehicles beyond a designated area, which in either case is more than reasonable walking distance  
from the job site, the Employer, the District Council representative and the Chapter representative  
concemed shall be required to enter into immediate negotiations to establish all conditions of travel  
and/or transportation from the camp or parking area to the place of work on the job site.  
Back to Index  
### APPENDIX 2  
### CRAFT WORKING RULES  
SECTION 1. Shop Steward: There will be no against any workmen because of past or  
present union activities or because of race, creed, sex, age or color. However, no workman, unless he/she  
has been designated as the working steward on the job, is to use the Employer’ s time for union activities.  
The Employer shall be informed of the names of the appointed stewards.  
The authority of the job steward shall be limited to the investigation of complaints which may be in  
violation of this collective bargaining agreement. He/she shall present such finding to the Union Agent  
for processing.  
No steward shall be allowed to solicit membership in this organization or to collect any monies from any  
employees, nor shall they have any authority to take strike action or any action interrupting the  
Employer’ s business, and shall perform work of the Employer to the same extent as other employees.  
29  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
When an Employer or superintendent deems it necessary to discharge an appointed working steward  
during the course of ajob, he/she will, to maintain harmony, inform the Union beforehand of the  
necessity of such action.  
SECTION 2. Union Notification: When an Employer moves into a temitory away fromits home area  
in the of the Washington and Northem Idaho District Council to begin a new project, he/she  
will notify the District Council prior to starting said project.  
SECTION 3. — Protective Clothing: On sewer, water mains, tunnels, concrete and other work which  
actually warrants, such protective clothing as rubber boots, pants, coats and leather or rubber gloves of  
proper size will be supplied by the Employer, such clothing to be charged and signed out to the employee  
who are to guarantee their retum in like condition, normal wear and tear excepted or pay for the same.  
Rubber gear will not be fumished to tum foul weather.  
SECTION 4. Flaggers: It is agreed by placing the classification of flaggers under Group ITA that when  
in the opinion of the Employer the “uniform” has the effect of better control of traffic and thereby protects  
the public and the workmen on major artenals or severely congested city streets or highways, the  
Employer may use off duty uniformed policemen without violation of this Labor Agreement. However,  
the Employer may not use retired policemen or security guards. Further, itis the intent to use Laborers  
who are certified as flaggers where possible.  
Where conditions are nonmal, it is the intent to use Laborers to do on-the-job flagging, on new roads or  
street construction and on sewer and other work in residential or rural areas.  
SECTION 5. ‘Termination Notices: Upon termination, each employee will be given a termination  
notice. If they are not eligible for rehire the reasons will be stated.  
SECTION 6. A single pre-job conference will be held if requested by either party. Additional pre-job  
conferences may be held if requested by either party.  
Back to Index  
### APPENDIX 3  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
It is agreed that the following provisions shall apply on work under compressed air:  
SECTION 1. Except as stated or modified hereafter, the condition provisions of the Master Agreement  
apply.  
SECTION 2. — All on-the-job travel, compression time and decompression time shall be exclusive of  
time worked as set forth in the wage schedule below, but compensation for this time is included in the pay  
set forth for the work shift.  
SECTION 3. There shall be one rate of pay for all classifications and types of work and workmen  
working under compressed air.  
SECTION 4. Foremen shall receive twelve dollars and eighty cents ($12.80) per shift over workmen.  
SECTION 5. Health and Security shall be paid at eight (8) times the hourly rate in effect for each day  
worked.  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
SECTION 6. Retirement pay shall be paid at eight (8) times the hourly rate in effect for each day  
worked.  
SECTION 7. | Onasix (6) hour shift the employees will be allowed time off between the end of the 3'/2  
hour and the 5" hour to eat a sandwich and coffee, but this time shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes and  
the employees may be rotated so as to keep continuous work at the heading.  
SECTION 8. ‘The highest pressure registered on the gauge for an accumulated time of more than fifteen  
(15) minutes during the shift shall be used in determining the scale paid.  
SECTION 9. All necessary protective clothing shall be fummished by the Employer, but the employees  
Shall guarantee its retum, normal wear and tear excepted.  
SECTION 10. Outside lock tenders and gauge tenders shall be paid at eight (8) times the miner’ s rate,  
but shall work the same shift time as worked by the gang under compressed air.  
SECTION 11. All other outside classifications shall be at classifications and conditions for tunnel  
workers in free air except that cleaning and maintaining of change house will be done at general labor  
rate.  
SECTION 12. Employees shall be relieved at the heading or working points as designated by the  
Employer.  
SECTION 13. ‘To compute overtime for each hour of overtime worked at the heading, the overtime pay  
Shall be derived by dividing the applicable shift rate by the “overtime devisor’ and this figure multiplied  
by the applicable overtime rate from the Master Agreement. On Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, all  
work shall be at the applicable overtime rate.  
SECTION 14. ‘There shall be only one (1) straight time shift in any twenty-four (24) hour peniod.  
SECTION 15. When required to return for additional decompression in the medical decompression  
Chamber, the time spent in medical decompression shall be paid at the General Laborers’ straight time  
rate and such time shall not be considered as time worked.  
SECTION 16. Medical examinations will be provided by the Employer at no cost to the employee.  
Such examinations shall be conducted on the Employer’ s time.  
Back to Index  
31  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### APPENDIX 4  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON AREA  
SECTION 1. ‘Temitory: This Addendum shall cover all construction work in Chelan, Kittitas, and  
Yakima Counties and that portion of Douglas County lying west of the 120° Mendian.  
SECTION 2. Adoption of Master Agreement: The parties agree to be bound by, to adopt and  
incorporate by reference, as part of this Addendum, all of the terms and conditions of the Master Labor  
Agreement, except as provided in this Addendum.  
SECTION 3. Wage Rates:  
NOTE: Only zone “A” rates are shown for all classifications. Appendix 1, Schedule C, Section  
3 for zone “B” Rate adjustments.  
   
Apprenticeship Rates: Percentage Computed on Group IIT Rate. Apprentices registered pnior to June 1,  
2012.  
| Jue 1, 2012 | June 1, 2013, | June 1, 2014  
Apprentices registered beginning | une 1, 2012 will participate in the 6000 hour proc  
|| June 2002 June 1.2013 [June 12014  
1000hours | $1394 Ss TBD S|  
   
3001 - 4000 hours $19.75  
4001 - 5000 hours $20.91  
5001 - 6000 hours $22.07  
   
**T otal package increase. The 2013 and 2014 allocation of the wage/fringe package will be  
sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date.  
However, at no time will apprentices’ wage rates, exceed those of joumeymen for the same classification  
of work.  
The Fringe Benefit contnbution rates for Apprentices shall be the same as forjoumeymen.  
Back to Index  
32  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### APPENDIX 5  
### HIRING OF APPRENTICES  
SECTION 1. Apprentices: The employment of apprentices shall be in accordance with the following  
ratios per job:  
A. An Employer employing one or more Joumey-level Laborers may employ apprentices per the  
below Apprentice Ratio Chart. This is to be interpreted as perjob. Each Contractor or  
contract is separate with their own ratios on the job.  
### APPRENTICE RATIO CHART  
  
ae  
po  
   
Sequential pattem would continue for remaining numbers.  
NOTE: Employers may lose their training agent status with the State of Washington if they are found to  
be in violation of the established ratios.  
Back to Index  
33  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
B. The apprentice to Jo -level ratios established above be altered on a project  
project basis under the guidelines set forth by the Northwest Laborers JATC and depending  
on the availability of current apprentices.  
C. The apprentice to Joumey-level worker shall never exceed a one to one (1:1) ratio.  
D. ‘The above ratios are subject to the availability of current ices.  
E, The proper ratio of joumeymen to apprentices will be maintained when reducing the work  
force and when transfering employees from project to project.  
F, When perfonming overtime or emergency work, Joumeyman Laborers will be given  
preference.  
Work Defined: By a single crew or on a crew by crew basis, and not to the job as a whole.  
G. When Employers wish to transfer apprentices from one project to another resulting in the  
need to transfer from one local union to another covered by this Agreement, they must have  
penmission of both local JETC subcommittees.  
Note: Apprentices may not be transferred outside the area of the subcommittee’ s jurisdiction  
except when done in accordance with this subsection 1 G.  
H. At no time will apprentices’ wage rates exceed those of joumeyman for the same  
Classification of work.  
I. Apprentices shall be indentured in accordance to the Northwest Laborers Apprenticeship  
Committee Standards of Apprenticeship.  
J. When an apprentice is ired to attend traini for maintaining and/or  
his/her status in the apprenticeship program, and such training necessitates the absence of the  
rentice froma job, the oyer shall it the tice leave from the job to sati  
the traini irement and restore his/her status on the job when the training is co  
provided a position is available.  
Back to Index  
### APPENDIX 6  
### OPERATION OF LOCAL UNION HIRING HALLS  
SECTION 1. In order to maintain employment and preserve workable labor relations, as well as to  
insure accomplishment of private and public work, the following shall prevail:  
A. Itis recognized within the construction industry that the Union and the Employer have jointly  
developed a pool of qualified and safety trained workers.  
B. The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative  
of employees over whom the Union has jurisdiction.  
C. The recruitment of employees shall be the responsibility of the Union and its Local Unions will  
maintain offices or other designated facilities for the convenience of the Employer and forjob  
applicants.  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
D. Selection and referral of applicants for jobs shall be on a non-discniminatory basis and shall in no  
way be affected by race, color, age, sex, or creed, nor by Union membership, bylaws, rules,  
regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership,  
policies or requirements.  
FE. Realizing that employees working under this Agreement acquire certain rights through experience  
in the industry and acquire Health and Welfare benefits for themselves and their families, itis  
agreed that selection of applicants for referral will be on the following basis:  
The Union shall maintain a list of applicants in the Union office or designated point, who are out  
of work and available for employment.  
Registration and referral of applicants shall be on a non-discriminatory basis without regard to  
race, color, sex, age or creed or to membership or non-membership in the Union and shall be in  
accordance with the following plan. The Union shall register all applicants for employment on  
the basis of the Groups listed below. Each applicant shall be registered in the highest priority  
Groups for which he/she is qualified.  
Back to Index  
### GROUPA  
Effective January 1, 2003, Group A shall consist of:  
All Laborers who have previously qualified for Group A list status under the terms of this  
Agreement.  
Laborers who have successfully completed the Apprenticeship program, which consists of three  
hundred twenty (320) hours of training and four thousand (4000) hours of covered employment or  
Laborers that registered in the Apprenticeship program after June 1, 2012 who have successfully  
completed the A iceshi which consists of four hundred ei 480) hours of  
training and six thousand (6000) hours of covered employment.  
Laborers who have been rated by the New Entrant Assessment (NEA) process as Joumey Level  
Construction Craft Laborers.  
Laborers who have worked at least four thousand (4000) hours under the terms of an agreement  
with a District Council as herein defined and have achieved a passing score at a level established  
by the NEA on the “Knowledge Assessment” portion of the assessment or a “Classification  
Specific Knowledge Assessment” that is approved by the Training Trust.  
All other Laborers who have worked at least four thousand (4000) hours under the terms of an  
agreement with a District Council will qualify for Group A list status only in the classification(s)  
for which they have demonstrated proficiency through a history of employment.  
Back to Index  
### GROUP B  
Effective January 1, 2003, Group B shall consist of:  
Individuals who are registered with and have been qualified by the JETC and are  
Signatory to a training agreement with the Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee. Such  
individuals shall register at the Training Office with the subcommittee. The Area JATC shall  
35  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
determine the number of individuals accepted into the new entrant training program upon the  
recommendation of the subcommittee.  
Individuals that do not successfully complete their apprenticeship will be denied use of all hiring  
halls within this District Council for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of their  
tenmination from the Program. Hours worked during their apprenticeship will not count towards  
any list status.  
If at any time, the indenturing of Apprentices causes the Training Trust to be out of compliance  
with Affirmative Action requirements in any Local Union area, the Training Trust will indenture  
additional Apprentices from their pool of eligible individuals, at the earliest opportunity, to get  
the Local Union area back into compliance.  
Back to Index  
### GROUP C  
Effective January 1, 2003, Group C shall consist of:  
All Laborers who have previously qualified for Group C list status under the terms of this  
Agreement.  
Laborers who have worked at least two hundred (200) hours under the terms of an agreement  
with this Distict Council.  
Back to Index  
### GROUP D  
All other individuals who are seeking and who are physically fit. Any individual who has  
previously failed to pass or complete the Pre-Construction Training (PCT) shall not be eligible to register  
on the “D” list.  
F. The Hiring Hall shall make up and prepare the roster for preference of rehire by grouping all  
applicants who come within the above classifications and shall utilize the Health and Welfare and.  
Pension records and/or check stubs in establishing these accrued rights based on length of  
employment. The registrant shall have the burden of proving his past experience and skills to the  
hiring hall.  
G. Seattle/Everett Metropolitan Area: In order to have applicants available and ready for work in the  
densely populated Seattle/Everett Metropolitan area, the Locals in that area shall give preference  
to those applicants present at the hiring hall during the established dispatch hours. Any  
dispatching done outside of the Local’ s established dispatching hours will be done by telephone.  
H. Definition of Employer: “Employer” under this Article means, (1) any Employer party to the  
Agreement, or (2) any Employer who employs Laborers under the terms of this Agreement and is  
a contibuting employer within the meaning of the Health and Welfare and Pension Plans.  
I. Referral of Laborers: Laborers shall be referred from Group A, as qualified, in successive order  
as their names appear on the out-of-work list. When Group A has been exhausted:  
Dispatching of Group B apprentices shall be in successive order as registered on the out-of-work  
list. When Group B has been exhausted:  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
Laborers shall be referred from Group C, as qualified, in successive order as their names appear  
on the out-of-work list. When Group C has been exhausted:  
Dispatching of Group D registrants shall be by qualification in successive order as registered on  
the out-of-work list.  
J. When an applicant is referred for employment and is actually employed on a specified short-tenm  
job, such position shall not be changed on the out-of-work list. If a registrant, upon  
being referred for employment in regular order, refused to accept employment for which he/she is  
qualified, or voluntarily quits such employment pnor to completion of the job, oris fired for  
cause, such registrant’ s name shall be placed at the bottom of the Group out-of-work list on  
which he/she is registered.  
K. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Hiring Hall dispatching officer to refer  
Laborers to ajob which is located outside of a metropolitan area whose residence is in close  
proximity to that job even though their priority on the out-of-work list may not be as great as  
some other Laborers living at a greater distance.  
L. There shall be no discrimination by the Employer or the Local Union, with respect to recruitment,  
referral, hiring, tenure or discharge of any applicant or worker and any requirement as to  
membership or non-membership in any Union shall be in accordance with the National Labor  
Relations Act of 1947 as amended.  
M. There shall be no discrimination by the Employer or the Local Union, with respect to recruitment,  
referral, hiring, tenure or discharge of any applicant or worker because of race, color, sex, age or  
creed and both the Employer and the Local Union agree to abide by Presidential Orders, Federal  
Laws or State Laws providing for non-discrimination in employment.  
N. Itis the intent of the Employer and of the Union by these procedures to fully comply with the  
National Labor Relations Act of 1947 as amended and the regulations and criteria of the National  
Labor Relations Board.  
O. The Union and each Local Union shall post in their main offices all provisions relating to the  
referral and hiring provisions of this Agreement.  
Back to Index  
37  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF this Agreement has been executed by the Washington and Northern Idaho  
District Council of Laborers and its Local Unions party hereto, and the AGC of Washington, a Chapter of  
the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., on behalf of certain individual members who have  
authonzed the Chapter to execute the Agreement on their behalf.  
### FOR ‘THE EMPLOY ERS: FOR THE WASHINGTON AND NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS:  
Craig Holt David J. Letinich, Business Manager & Secretary  
Chairman of Laborers Bargaining ‘Treasurer - Negotiating Committee Chairman  
AGC of Washington  
Date Date  
38  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
### WESTERN/CENTRAL WASHINGTON LOCALS  
Bellingham Local 276  
1700 N. State St  
Bellingham, WA 98225  
Fverett Local 292  
2810 Lombard Ave, Ste 100  
Fverett, WA 98201  
Wenatchee Field Office  
Mt. Vemon Local 901  
1221 Riverside Dr. Ste C  
Mt. Vemon, WA 98273  
Seattle Local 242  
2800 - 1% Ave, Rm 50  
Seattle, WA 98121  
Seattle Local 440  
565 - 13" Ave  
Seattle, WA 98122  
Tacoma Local 252  
4803 South “M” St  
Tacoma, WA 98408  
Silverdale Sub-Office  
Olympia Sub-Office  
Port Angeles Sub-Office  
Yakima Local 614  
2408 Fruitvale Blvd, Ste 400  
Yakima, WA 98902  
### LABORERS  
360-733-0900  
360-733-0089 (Fax)  
425-259-5077  
425-252-3062 (Fax)  
909-662-9762  
909-663-4570 (Fax)  
360-336-6159  
360-336-6159 (Fax)  
206-441-0481  
206-728-8756 (Fax)  
206-329-1540  
206-329-0156 (Fax)  
203-383-1493  
203-597-4980 (Fax)  
360-613-4073  
360-692-2759 (Fax)  
360-357-6460  
360-357-9900 (Fax  
360-457-6929  
360-417-1545 (Fax)  
909-452-4332  
909-452-4337 (Fax)  
39  
Back to Index  
2012 - 2015  
### WASHINGTON & NORTHERN IDAHO DISTRICT COUNCILOF LABORERS  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### FOR  
### PRIVATE SECTOR WORK  
THIS MEMORANDUM, effective the first day of June, 2012, by and between the WASHINGTON &  
NORTHERN IDAHO DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS, hereinafter referred to as the “Union” and  
the undersigned Employer, hereinafter referred to as the  
1.  
   
Competitive Conditions: The parties listed below agree that this Memorandum of Understanding  
for Private Sector Work is provided for the purpose of giving the signatory contractor the  
opportunity to be competitive in negotiating and bidding in the private sector limited to the scope  
listed in paragraph 4 below.  
Adoption of Master Labor Agreement: The parties agree to be bound by, to adopt and  
incorporate all of the terms and conditions of the Master Labor Agreement, except as provided in  
the Memorandum of Understanding.  
Notification: The Employer shall notify the affected Local Union when work is to be performed  
under this Memorandum prior to starting work. Failure to notify the Union will result in the  
payment of 100% wage rates until the Union is properly notified in waiting.  
Coverage: This Memorandum shall cover all privately funded projects whose value is $5.0  
million or less (excluding electrical on civil work, i.e., signals and treffic lighting).  
Fringe Benefits: Fringe Benefits shall be 100% of those listed in the Master Labor Agreement  
during the terms of this Agreement.  
Wage Rates: The wage rates covered by this Understanding shall be equal to ninety percent  
(90%) of the wage rates established in the Westem Washington area for those projects whose  
value is from $3 million up to $5 million and eighty-five percent (85%) of the wage rates  
established in the Westem Washington area for those projects who value is $3 million or less and  
eighty-five percent (85%) of the wage rates established in the Central Washington area for those  
projects whose value is $5 million or less.  
Working With Other Crafts. ‘The Employer and Union agree that when the Laborers are working  
on the same payroll as another craft that are a higher percentage scale, then those  
Laborers will also receive the higher percentage scale. This Memorandum will in no way affect  
the provisions of Article 22 of the Master Labor Agreement.  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015  
Itis expressl the ies hereto that this Memorandum is not intended to circumvent the  
rates set forth in the Master Labor Agreement through artificial staging or phasing of projects for the sole  
purpose of applying the limits stated herein.  
### FOR THE UNION: FOR THE EMPLOY ER:  
### WASHINGTON & NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS ee  
Name of Contractor  
AddressofContactor ©  
By  
David J. Letinich, Business Manager &  
Secretary- Treasurer  
Name  
Date Date  
### LABORERS  
Al  
2012 - 2015  
### PRIVATE SECTOR WORK  
### WESTERN/CENTRAL WASHINGTON  
### WAGE & FRINGE BENEFIT RATES  
JUNE 1, 2012 - MAY 31, 2013  
### WESTERN WASHINGTON:  
### GROUP  
$19.75 $18.65  
$22.58 $21.33  
2B $24.74 $23.37  
3 General Laborer $28.18 $26.61  
$28.86 $27.26  
$29.33 $27.70  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON:  
4 |  
5  
   
3 General Laborer $19.75  
$20.22  
OO $20.56  
### FRINGE BENEFIT RATES:  
Training  
### WAGE DEDUCTION:  
   
   
$1.00  
$100  
Union Dues Eff 6/1/12 $0.85  
Union Dues Eff 7/1/12  
### WAFCF  
   
Back to Index  
LABORERS 2012 - 2015