2015 -2018 AGREEMENT  
between  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF WASHINGTON  
And  
### WASHINGTON AND NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
### INDEX  
### PREAMBLE  
### ARTICLE  
### 1. PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT  
### 2. WORK AFFECTED  
### 3. TERRITORY OF AGREEMENT  
### 4, EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION  
### 3. UNION SECURITY  
### 6. UNION RECOGNITION AND HIRING PROCEDURES  
### 7. SUBCONTRACTORS  
### 8. HOLIDAYS  
### 9. LUNCH PROVISIONS, REST PERIODSAND SICK LEAVE  
### 10. PAY DAY  
### 11. UNION REPRESENTATIVE  
### 12. SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
### 13. SETTLEMENT OF JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
### 14. STRIKES AND PICKET LINES  
### 15. SAFETY MEASURES  
### 16. SAVINGS CLAUSE  
### 17. HOURSOF WORK  
### 18. OVERTIME  
### 19. REPORTING AND MINIMUM HOURS PAY  
### 20. MANAGEMENT RIGHTS CLAUSE  
### 21. SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
### 22, PRE-DETERMINED WAGE RATE PROJECTS  
### 23. UNION DUES DEDUCTIONS  
### 24. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
### 29. SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
### 26. WASHINGTON LABORERS-EM PLOYERS COOPERATION  
### AND EDUCATION TEAM  
### 27. LIGHT DUTY RETURN TO WORK  
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE A CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE SCALES  
### SC HEDULE B - FRINGE BENEFITS  
### SCHEDULE C - ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
### APPENDIX 2  
### CRAFT WORKING RULES  
### APPENDIX 3  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
### APPENDIX 4  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON AREA  
### APPENDIX 5  
### HIRING OF APPRENTICES  
### APPENDIX 6  
### OPERATION OF LOCAL UNION HIRING HALLS  
### WESTERN/CENTRAL WASHINGTON LOCALS  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING FOR PRIVATE SECTOR WORK  
### LABORERS  
### PAGE 1  
### RP WWWD  
== = Se RP eS eS eS Se  
=| = ©  
16  
18  
22  
24  
29  
26  
27  
30  
32  
36  
37  
2015 - 2018  
2015 - 2018 AGREEMENT  
between  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF WASHINGTON  
and  
### WASHINGTON AND NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
### PREAMBLE  
This Agreement is a successive principal Agreement of the 2012 - 2015 Agreement, and all other prior Agreements  
thereto by and between the Associated General Contractors of Washington, a Chapter of the Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc., and the Washington and Northem Idaho District Council of Laborers.  
For the purposes of this Agreement, the AGC of Washington is not acting asa multi-employer bargaining agent in a single  
multi-employer unit, but is acting for and on behalf of Employers who have individually requested the AGC of  
Washington to act as their individual and separate bargaining agent in individual Employer units. Further, each individual  
principal member reserves the right to review and accept or reject any proposed Agreement negotiated between the Union  
and the AGC of Washington acting as an agent for the individual contractor members.  
This is a collective bargaining Agreement between certain individual members of the Associated General Contractors of  
Washington, a Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the “Employer’),  
and the Washington and Northem Idaho District Council of Laborers (hereinafter referred to as the “Union’”), and shall  
constitute an Agreement between the parties hereto for the work, conditions and wage rates provided for herem in the  
temitory of Westem and Central Washington.  
### ARTICLE 1  
### PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT  
SECTION 1. ‘The purpose of this Agreement is to promote the settlement of labor disagreements by conference, to  
prevent strikes and lockouts and to stabilize wages and working conditions in building, heavy highway construction and  
engineering work in the area affected.  
SECTION 2. Bylaws of either party are not part of this Agreement. It is agreed and understood between the parties  
hereto that this Agreement contains all the covenants, stipulations and provisions agreed upon by the parties hereto. No  
agent or representative of either party has authority to make any promise, inducement or agreement contrary to the  
provisions herein.  
SECTION 3. ‘The Employer hereby voluntarily recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all employees  
performing bargaining unit work covered by this Agreement, and agrees that a majority of those employees have  
designated the Union as their collective bargaining representative.  
SECTION 4. ‘The Union recognizes the AGC of Washington as the exclusive individual bargaining agent for each  
Employer who has authorized the AGC of Washington to negotiate individually with the Union on its behalf.  
### ARTICLE 2  
### WORK AFFECTED  
SECTION 1. ‘This Agreement shall cover all Highway, Building, Heavy Construction and Engineering projects  
including the loading and unloading of barges or other camiers of the matenals and equipment at loading  
facilites for the work performed by Employer parties to this Agreement in the counties outlined in Article 3,  
section 1.  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
SECTION 2. For clarification, Heavy, Highway and Engineering projects are defined as follows: construction of  
railroads, street railways, roads, highways, streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, paving (Portland Cement or  
Asphaltic Concrete), airports, bridges, overpasses, sewers, water mains, sanitation projects, imigation projects, flood  
control projects, reclamation projects, reservoirs, dams, dikes, levees, revetments, channels, aqueducts, channel cutoffs,  
jetties, breakwaters, harbor developments, docks, dry docks, piers, abutments, retaining walls, transmission lines, duct  
lines, subways, shafts, tunnels, excavation of earth and rock, power generating projects, reinforced earthwork, and all  
other heavy construction and engineering operations in therewith, and all site clearing, demolition work,  
pipeline and refinery work when covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. For further clarification, the term “Building” shall mean a building structure, including modifications  
thereof, or additions or repairs thereto, intended for use for shelter, protection, comfort and convenience.  
SECTION 4. — Asbestos, Lead, Mold and Toxic Waste: This Agreement shall also cover all work in connection with the  
handling, control, removal, abatement, encapsulation or disposal of asbestos, lead, mold and/or toxic waste.  
### ARTICLE 3  
### TERRITORY OF AGREEMENT  
SECTION 1. ‘This Agreement shall cover all construction work in the following counties: Whatcom, Skagit,  
Snohomish, King, Pierce, ‘Thurston, Lewis, that portion of Pacific County north of a straight line made by extending the  
north boundary of Wahkiakum County west to the Pacific Ocean, Grays Harbor, Clallam, Jefferson, Mason, Kitsap,  
Island, San Juan, Chelan, Kittitas, Yakima and that portion of Douglas County lying west of the 120° meridian.  
SECTION 2. Attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement is Appendix 4 which contains any differences in  
wages, travel or working conditions for the Central Washington area.  
### ARTICLE 4  
### EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION  
SECTION 1. ‘This Agreement shall be effective commencing June 1, 2015, and shall continue in force and effect  
through May 31, 2018. Upon its expiration, this Agreement shall continue from year to year, June 1 through May 31 of  
each year, by automatic renewal unless changed, or superseded by a successor principal agreement, or terminated. For the  
purpose of negotiating alterations in wages and other terms and conditions of employment, either party may open this  
Agreement or any contract effectuated through automatic renewal by giving written “Notice of Opening” not later than  
sixty (60) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date. “Notice of Opening” is in no way intended by the  
parties as a termination of, nor shall it in any way be construed as a termination of this Agreement or any annual contract  
effectuated through automatic renewal nor as forestalling automatic renewal as herein provided. The parties reserve the  
right to economic recourse in negotiations, except during the interval between the giving of “Notice of Opening” and the  
expiration date.  
SECTION 2. Except by mutual written agreement, termination of this Agreement or any annual contract effectuated  
through automatic renewal, must to the exclusion of all other methods, be perfected by giving written “Notice of  
‘Temnination” not later than sixty (60) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date, whereupon the contract  
Shall, on its expiration date, terminate. Effective tennination eliminates automatic renewal.  
SECTION 3. Any “Notice of Opening” or “Notice of ‘Temnination” by the Employer shall be sent via certified mail to  
the Washington & Northem Idaho District Council of Laborers.  
SECTION 4. Any “Notice of Opening” or “Notice of Tennination” not submitted per the provisions of this article shall  
be absolutely null and void and completely ineffective for all purposes.  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
### ARTICLE 5  
### UNION SECURITY  
SECTION 1. ‘The employees shall become and remain members of the Union as a condition of employment from the  
seventh but not later than the eighth day of employment, or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later. To  
“become and remain members of the Union as a condition of O t” shall mean an oyee’s tender  
of initiation fees and membership dues to the Union.  
SECTION 2. No employee covered by this agreement shall be required to sign or be bound by a non-competition  
agreement of any kind or nature that restricts future employment opportunities.  
SECTION 3. It is further agreed that all Union members employed by the Employer shall maintain their membership in  
good standing in the Union. ‘T To “maintain their membershi in in the Union” shall mean an employee's  
tor tender of fees or dues as this Article 23.  
SECTION 4. Failure of any employee to pay or tender normal initiation fees or dues as required by this Agreement  
Shall, upon the request of the Union in writing, result in the termination of such employee within two (2) working days,  
provided areplacement is available. ‘Tennination in this Article shall be within seven (7) working days under any  
circumstance.  
### ARTICLE 6  
### UNION RECOGNITION AND HIRING PROCEDURES  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer will call upon the Local Union in whose temitory the work is to be accomplished to refer  
qualified applicants for work in the classifications herein contained. In requesting applicants for work, the Employer shall  
notify the Local Union office either in wniting or by telephone, stating the location, starting time, type of shift schedule  
(i.e, at8 hours or 4 days at 10 hours), approximate duration of the job, the type of work to be performed and the  
number of employees required.  
A. All qualified applicants referred for work to an Employer shall provide to the Employer when reporting for work  
two pieces of identification, one of which has a picture of the applicant.  
B. All qualified applicants shall complete and sign W-4 and I-9 forms as requested by the Employer.  
C. An applicant who fails or refuses to submit this information or who provides false information when referred to  
an Employer shall be registered on the bottom of the appropnate out-of-work list for which the applicant  
Qualifies.  
D. An applicant who, upon a subsequent referral to an Employer, fails or refuses to submit this information or  
provides false information shall be denied use of all hiring facilities within the area of this District Council, unless  
the applicant enters into a written agreement that the applicant will submit the information to Employers.  
SECTION 2. When the Employer has placed averbal or written order for referral of workers from the Local Union and  
Should a shortage of applicants exist and they cannot be supplied by the Local Union within twenty-four (24) hours from  
the time workers ordered are required to report to the job, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded, the Employer may  
then seek applicants from other sources. When an Employer so hires employees from sources other than the Local Union,  
the Employer shall notify the Union, giving the names and addresses and classifications of the employees hired within  
five (5) days of the date of employment.  
SECTION 3. ‘The Employer shall have the right to reject any job applicant, but the applicant and the Local Union shall  
be entitled to the reason for such rejection in writing.  
SECTION 4. ‘The Employers acknowledge and support the LIUNA Code of Performance, dated 5/14/2010, as an effort  
to increase competitiveness by improving the quality and performance of the workforce. To assist the Union with  
A.  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
implementation of this Code of Performance, the Employers agree to designate discharges “for cause’ in wniting, when  
This clause is intended only to assist the Union in implementing its Code of Performance with future  
referrals under the hiring hall procedures. Otherwise this clause does not create any new or additional nights for  
the workers or additional responsibility for Employers under this Agreement.  
SECTION 5. Whenever an employee is discharged for cause, including failure to pass a substance abuse test, not able  
to perform the assigned work due to lack of skills or as unsatisfactory, the Employer agrees to send a written termination  
notice, within fifteen (15) working days to the Union, stating the reasons for termination. notice of cause is  
provided, the individual shall be eligible for rehire without exception.  
SECTION 6. General ‘Termination: When aregistrant has been terminated as unsatisfactory or has been discharged for  
cause by at least three (3) Employers within a twenty-four (24) month period, he/she shall be denied further use of all  
hiring halls covered by the District Council provided the Employers have fumished the Local Unions in writing the  
reasons forsuch terminations or discharges. Members wishing to demonstrate that corrective action has been taken by  
them, and therefore they should be allowed access to the hiring hall facilities, may petition the District Council’s  
Executive Board for an opportunity to appear and give their position. ‘The member's petition to the District Council’s  
Executive Board shall be filled within one year from the date he/she has been denied further use of the hiring halls  
covered by the District Council. A member ition twice for the restoration of his/her use of the hiring hall facilities  
   
covered by the District Council. The burden is on the petitioning member to demonstrate that corrective action has been  
taken to remedy the issue(s) outlined in the termination letters. The District Council’s Executive Board shall be the sole  
judge as to whether such corrective action is sufficient for reinstatement.  
SECTION 6.1. Skills ‘Tenmination: When aregistrant has been terminated for lack of possessing the necessary skills to  
perform assigned duties, by at least three (3) Employers within a twenty-four (24) month period, satisfactory completion  
of additional training will be required before hiring hall privileges are restored in the classification in question.  
SECTION 6.2. Substance Abuse Tennination: The following provision applies only to those Employers using the AGC-  
Labor Substance Albuse Program or one that has been jointly negotiated with the Union. In order to protect the privacy of  
all employees, termination notices for failure of the drug test must be sent “Personal and Confidential” to:  
Business Manager  
Washington & Northem Idaho District Council of Laborers  
PO Box 12917  
Mill Creek, WA 98082-0917  
When a registrant has been terminated, and/or is deemed ineligible for rehire, for failure to pass a substance abuse test, the  
individual shall be registered on the bottom of the appropnate out-of-work list for which he/she qualifies. Should the  
registrant be terminated asecond time within a twenty-four (24) month period for failure to pass a substance abuse test,  
the registrant shall be denied use of all hiring facilities within the area of the District Council until he/she has successfully  
completed a State certified drug/alcohol program or has been released for employment purposes by a State certified  
counselor, and continues to remain free of all prohibited substances as defined in the AGC-Labor Substance Abuse  
Program. In order to determine compliance with this section, prior to having hiring hall privileges_restored, the registrant  
must sign a privacy release to allow the Union to discuss and to exchange with the drug/alcohol program or counselor any  
necessary information pertaining to the registrant’s case.  
SECTION 7. Where Employers engage in ajoint venture, individuals employed by a member company of the joint  
venture may be transferred to the job or called for by name by said member company of the joint venture within the  
temitory covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 8. ‘Thereferral procedure as contained herein shall be followed except:  
A. by the Employer for key personnel to act as supervisors or foremen shall be honored without regard to  
the requested place on the out-of-work list. To qualify for arequest under this Section, the employee  
must actually perform the duties of the position requested.  
  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
B. Bona fide requests will be honored for individuals previously employed by the Employer when requested by  
name and whose name appears on the out-of-work list and who have been legally employed by the Employer in  
the area of the jurisdiction of the Local Union.  
Note: Any individual who wes previously hired illegally or improperly by the Employer may not seek prionty of  
dispatch under this Section.  
C. The Employer may bring three (3) present employees at his discretion into the geographic jurisdiction of the  
Local Union for each job. In such cases, the Employer transfering such employees from one Local jurisdiction  
into another Local Union jurisdiction shall be required to check in and receive clearance from the Local Union  
having jurisdiction over the project. Failure to comply with this provision may be grounds for the Union to  
request termination of said employees.  
D. Additionally, the Employer may request by name, regardless of their respective position in Group A, one (1)  
individual for each three (3) Laborers hired. (Exception for Central Washington only: one (1) individual for each  
one (1) Laborer hired.) The provision will apply to Group A registrants only.  
FE. When the Employer has placed an order for employees requiring special skills or of special classification,  
applicants possessing the qualifications of the job will be referred in the order in which their names appear on  
Group A, C or D of the out-of-work list.  
SECTION 9. College Students: College students seeking employment during the period of May 1° through October 1  
Shall register on the Local Union's out-of-work list by personal call or in writing. An Employer (owner) desiring to hire  
such students shall notify the Local Union of such desire and the student shall not be employed until such registration has  
been complied. with. oyers to terminate College Student by October 1*. Hours worked by College Students  
Shall not count towards ing Hall list ifications.  
By mutual agreement between the Employer and the Local Business Manager, a college student may be called for by  
name, and be referred to the Employer without regard to his/her place on the out-of-work list. Such request for college  
Students and Intems combined may be allowed on a ratio of one (1) for the first five (5) Laborers employed up to of  
three (3) students or Intems on any one job. However, this ratio may be waived by mutual agreement of the Union and  
the Employer.  
A college student must demonstrate that he/she has been accepted as a full time student and is currently registered in  
school with no less than twelve (12) credited hours of instruction.  
In the case of aformal construction related college intemship, mutual agreement is implied herein, and the student shall be  
called for by name and will be referred to the Employer without regard to their place on the out-of-work list, provided  
such request shall not displace any current employees. All conditions related to ratios indicated above shall apply to this  
provision. Formal construction related college intems shall be allowed to work at any time during the year when mutually  
agreed to by the Employer and the Local having jurisdiction over the job. Hours worked by intems shall not count towards  
any Hiring Hall list qualifications.  
### ARTICLE 7  
### SUBCONTRACTORS  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer agrees it will not subcontract or otherwise transfer in whole orin part any work covered by  
this Agreement to be done at the site of the construction, alteration, painting or repair of a building, structure, or other  
work unless the person, firm, corporation or other business entity is signatory to this Agreement. The Employer agrees  
that a member of the Union will be employed by the Employer or any contractor or subcontractor at the jobsite if there is  
work to be done coming under the jurisdiction of the Union Agreement. The Union agrees that it will not take strike  
action to enforce this Article. In the event of any change in the present law, this clause will be renegotiated.  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
SECTION 2. Whenever the Employer is obligated to satisfy MBE/WBE/DBE recruiting or similar govemmental  
subcontracting requirements, the Union and the Employer by mutual agreement may waive this provision prior to  
commencement of the work in the event an Employer and the yen are unable to find qualified competitive Union  
MBE/WBE/DBE Subcontractors to meet these eee 2 oyer, when the Union, shall provide  
f of the pnior to Waiver  
SECTION 3. When potential union subcontractors are not available in the locality of the jobsite to perform the work or  
where the general contractor receives no competitive union bids, by mutual agreement, the Employer and the Union may  
waive this provision. Provided, however, the Union and the Employer shall review the prices submitted before assigning  
the non-union subcontractor.  
SECTION 4. When the total landscaping portion of a project is under two hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars (  
$275,000) in value and there is no portion of the landscaping excluded from the project or bid separately, the Employer  
may waive this provision. For the purpose of this Section, landscaping shall be as currently defined in WAC 296-127-  
01346.  
### ARTICLE 8  
### HOLIDAYS  
SECTION 1. Holidays recognized by this Agreement shall be New Y ear’s Day, Memorial Day (last Monday in May),  
Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Fnday and Saturday after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. Any  
holiday which falls on a Sunday shall be observed as a holiday on the following Monday. If any of the listed holidays falls  
Shall be a ar work day. No work shall be performed on Labor Day except to  
protect life and property or by mutual agreement of the Union and the Employer.  
### ARTICLE 9  
### LUNCH PROVISIONS, REST PERIODS AND PAID SICK LEAVE  
   
SECTION 1. Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours from the start of the shift without at  
least a one-half (7/2) hour break ‘This lunch period shall not begin earlier than three and one-half (3 7/2) hours  
after the start of the shift. If they are required to work past five (5) hours, one-half (7/2) hour at the applicable overtime  
rate shall be added to the hours worked and they must then be allowed time to eat their lunch. If not allowed to eat lunch,  
employees will be paid an additional one-half (7/2) hour of overtime.  
SECTION 2. Employees required to work more than two (2) hours after the end of the regular shift shall be allowed. at  
least one-half (7/2) hour meal period which shall be considered as time worked, and if it is impractical for the employees to  
leave the job, they shall be provided alunch by the Employer. If not given one-half (7/2) hour meal period, one-half (7/2)  
hour at the applicable overtime rate shall be added to the hours worked.  
SECTION 3. Employees required to work more than five (5) hours after the end of the regular shift shall be allowed at  
least one-half (7/2) hour meal period which shall be considered as time worked, and if it is impractical for the employees to  
leave the job, they shall be provided alunch by the Employer. If not given the one-half (7/2) hour meal period, one-half  
(4) hour at the applicable overtime rate shall be added to the hours worked.  
SECTION 4. — In the event that the Employer establishes a ten (10) hour day, the first lunch period shall be at mid-shift.  
Employees’ lunch period may be staggered during the period of three and one-half (3'/) to five (5) hours from the start of  
the shift to cover necessary work of a continuous nature.  
SECTION 5. For the purpose of this Article, the applicable overtime rate following a delay/missed meal, as noted  
above, shall be as follows:  
A. In the event the rate of the day is straight time, the applicable overtime rate will be time and one-half (11/ ) times  
the straight time rate of pay.  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
B. In the event the rate of the day is time and one-half (17/2), the applicable overtime rate will be two (2) times the  
Straight time rate of pay.  
C. In the event the rate of the day is double time, the applicable overtime rate will be two and one-half (21/2) times the  
Straight time rate of pay.  
### SECTION 6, REST PERIODS  
A. ‘The nature of the construction work covered by this Agreement allows intennittent rest periods. Employers shall  
provide such intermittent rest periods as work flow pennits, not to exceed ten (10) minutes for each four (4) hours  
worked. Scheduled rest periods are not required.  
B. Such intermittent rest periods shall be taken on the work site, at the employee’s place of work. A rest period  
means to stop work duties, exertion or activities for personal rest and rejuvenation.  
C. It will be the responsibility of each employee to take rest periods. If an employee does not take a rest period, then  
the employee must notify his/her immediate supervisor and a rest period will be provided.  
### SECTION 7. PATD/SICK LEAVE  
The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that given the nature of the construction industry, paid sick leave is not  
and hereby expressly waive the provisions of Seattle City Ordinance 123698, requiring paid sick leave, City  
of ‘Tacoma Ordinance 28275, requiring paid leave, and/or any city, state or county ordinance, rule or regulation granting  
paid sick leave to the employees under the jurisdiction of this Agreement, assuming that said ordinance, rule orregulation  
allows for such a waiver.  
### ARTICLE 10  
### PAY DAY  
SECTION 1. Employees shall be paid in full once each week (on the same day), but in no event shall more than five (5)  
days’ (Saturday, Sunday and holidays excluded) wages be withheld.  
A. If the regular payday falls on aholiday, the employees shall be paid on the last regular work day before the  
holiday. The check must be dated for the last regular work day before the holiday.  
B. The Employer will have the following options of making payment: 1.) negotiable check made on bank,  
paid prior to quitting time at the job site, 2.) direct deposit, into employee’s bank account; or by mail, at the  
election of employee, in writing at the time of hire or with ten (10) days advance notice of a change. If paid by  
mail, the check shall be postmarked not later than two (2) business days prior to the established payday.  
C. No employee shall be discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced, transferred or have any other adverse action  
taken against for refusing to use the direct payroll deposit or mail option.  
D. The Employer shall furnish to each employee, at the time of payment of wages, an itemized statement showing  
the pay basis (i.e., hours or days worked), rate or rates of pay, gross wages and all deductions from that pay  
period. In addition, the name, address and phone number of the  
Employer shall be indicated.  
FE. No adjustment of disputed pay will be made unless the employee or the Union shall make aclaim in wiiting to the  
Employer's representative within fifteen (15) days from the pay period in question.  
SECTION 2. Employees who quit shall be paid not later than the next regular pay period.  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
SECTION 3. Employees who are laid off or discharged shall be paid not later than the end of the next regular business  
day. If the employee is on direct deposit payment, payment shall be deposited into employees’ bank account within two  
(2) business days.  
SECTION 4. —_ If the payment is not made expressly as provided in this Article, then the employee shall be paid two (2)  
hours pay at the appropriate hourly wage rate for each twenty-four (24) hour period (Saturday and Sunday excepted;  
holidays shall be excepted unless the regular payday falls on a holiday and the check is not dated for the last regular work  
day before the holiday), thereafter until payment is made. Inthe case of payment by mail, the postmark on the envelope  
will serve as the cutoff date for any penalty. Employees must notify the Union within three (3) working days after the  
payday, layoff, or discharge to be eligible for penalty pay.  
SECTION 5. Non-Sufficient Funds: In the event an employee receives a non-sufficient funds (NSF) check, the  
payment shall then be made by money order or certified check. In addition any documented bank fees or charges incurred  
by the employee as of receiving a NSF check payment will be reimbursed to the affected employee. If requested,  
a letter of explanation will be sent to the bank and any creditors that may have been affected. If an employee  
receives a NSF check for the second time in any four (4) week period, the make-up check and all subsequent payments  
Shall be by money order or certified check.  
### ARTICLE 11  
### UNION REPRESENTATIVE  
SECTION 1. Authorized representatives of the Union shall have access to the projects provided they do not unduly  
interfere with the work of employees and that they fully comply with the safety and security procedures established for the  
project. On projects with restricted access, the Employer will cooperate with the Union officials in this regard as far as  
regulations pennit.  
SECTION 2. Union representatives will attempt to report to job site supervision prior to entering the job site.  
### ARTICLE 12  
### SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
SECTION 1. In cases of violation, misunderstandings or differences in interpretation of this Agreement, there shall be  
no cessation or stoppage of work. Both parties pledge their immediate cooperation to eliminate the above mentioned  
possibilities, and the procedure in Section 2 is outlined for this purpose.  
SECTION 2. Procedure for Settlement of Disputes:  
A. Step One: In the event that a dispute arising on the job cannot be satisfactorily adjusted on the job between the  
representative of the Union involved and the Employer, the dispute shall promptly (not later than fifteen (15)  
working days), be referred to the Business Manager of the Local Union involved and the Employer's authorized  
representative who is vested with decision making authority. Should they fail to effect asettlement, the matter  
Shall proceed to Step Two.  
B. Step Two: Board of Conciliation: The dispute shall be referred to the District Council and the Employer’ s  
authonzed representative who is vested with decision making authonty fora Board of Conciliation within fifteen  
(15) working days. This Board shall consist of two (2) persons who have no direct involvement in the dispute,  
appointed by each party. If these four (4) persons cannot effect a settlement within seven (7) days after the  
dispute has been referred to them, the matter shall proceed to Step Three. Hither party may waive their nght to a  
Board of Conciliation in Step Two. However, if this step is waived, mediation, in Step Three shall become  
mandatory. At no time will more than twenty (20) working days pass between the conclusion of Step One and the  
decision to waive the right to Step Two.  
C. Step Three: Mediation: Except as provided in Step Two, by mutual agreement, the issue may be referred to  
mediation. The parties shall request a mediator from the Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service or other  
9  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
mutually acceptable service. This person shall serve as the mediator to resolve the dispute. ‘The expense of  
employing the mediator shall be bome equally by both parties and each party shall be responsible for their own  
attomey fees and costs. Should mediation be waived or the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall  
proceed to Step Four.  
D. Step Four Arbitration: The parties shall request a list of seven (7) arbitrators from the Federal Mediation &  
Conciliation Service or other acceptable service and shall altemately stake names until only one name remains.  
This person shall serve as the arbitrator to resolve the dispute. The expense of employing the arbitrator shall be  
bome by the non prevailing party and each party shall be responsible for their own attomey fees and costs.  
Any decisions shall be within the scope and terms of this Agreement. It may also provide retroactivity not  
exceeding sixty (60) days and shall state the effective date. Decisions by the Board shall be rendered within  
twenty (20) days or at their discretion after the dispute is referred to them, and such decision shall be final and  
binding upon all parties. By mutual agreement, the aforementioned time frames in this Article may be waived or  
extended.  
### ARTICLE 13  
### SETTLEMENT OF JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
SECTION 1. ‘Therewill be no stnikes, no work stoppages or slowdowns or other interference with the work because of  
disputes.  
SECTION 2. ‘The Employer shall be responsible for all jurisdictional assignments. Inissuing such assignments, the  
Employer shall be guided by area practice, decisions of record and jurisdictional agreements of record. Craft junsdiction  
is neither determined nor awarded by classifications appearing in any labor agreement.  
SECTION 3. — If ajunisdictional dispute arises, it shall first be submitted to the Local Unions involved and the affected  
AGC Chapter for settlement. If no understanding or agreement is reached within forty-eight (48) hours, the parties may  
refer the dispute to the Intemational Unions with which the disputing Unions are affiliated for resolution and the  
Employer shall abide by the resolution. The disputed work shall continue as assigned by the Employer until the dispute  
has been resolved.  
SECTION 4. MUTUALLY AGREED TO WORK ASSIGNMENTS: ‘The Employer explicitly assigns the following  
classifications to be performed exclusively by members of the Laborers Union at all times:  
Pipe Layer/Tailor Caulker, Remote Equipment Operator (i.e. Compaction and Demolition), Nozzleman Shotcrete/Gunite,  
Asphalt Raker, Lead Pipe Layer, Mortarman and Hodcamier.  
Upon est from the Union, the oyer shall provide to the Union, with a copy to the AGC, a Letter of Assi  
that sets out work assi made on ajobsite. ‘The Union make such ests during the job or while a  
ject is under construction in order to venfy work that is ormed by its members. If the est is made after the  
ject has been co the over and the Union shall ensure the ac of the of assi  
The Letter of Assignment shall contain a complete description of the work and work processes, the make-up of the ct Crew  
and the name and location of the project. overs who fail to co with the est within ten (30 S Shall be  
subject to the Grievance Procedure.  
SECTION 5. MUTUALLY AGREED TO TOOLS OF THE TRADE: The Employer explicitly assigns the work  
classifications to be performed exclusively by members of the Laborers Union when used as tools of their trade:  
### ARTICLE 14  
### STRIKES AND PICKET LINES  
SECTION 1. — It is mutually agreed that there shall be no lockouts or other slow down or cessation of work by  
either party on account of any labor difference pending the utilization of the grievance machinery, as set forth in Article  
12.  
10  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
SECTION 2. Employees will not be discharged, disciplined orpermanently replaced for any protected activity related  
to the recognition of aprimary picket line approved by the Union party to this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. As required by law, employees shall be fumished to the Employer during labor disputes with other  
construction crafts and the Employer will endeavor to work as long as economically possible during these periods.  
### ARTICLE 15  
### SAFETY MEASURES  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer and the employee will conform to all Federal and State health and safety regulations  
applicable to work covered by this Agreement and shall have adequate shelters available where necessary, with heat,  
where the employees can change and dry their clothes and store their tools. On all projects covered by this Agreement,  
there shall be provided by the Employer at all times during construction, sanitary facilities consisting of a reasonable  
number of toilets and urinals, on tunnel projects separate showers for men and women. Fresh drinking water will be  
available to the employees. Employer will fumish all welding, safety and protective equipment required; including, but  
not limited to, leathers, hard hats, eye protection, ear protection, respirators, safety belts and lanyards, reflective vests,  
flagging signs and paddles.  
SECTION 2. ‘This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed as creating, imposing, or adopting on the  
Union or representatives any state common-law duties in areas of safety.  
### ARTICLE 16  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
SECTION 1. ‘This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed to pennit acts which violate any valid  
Federal or State law.  
SECTION 2. — If any provision of this Agreement application of such provision shall in any court or other  
Govemmental action, be held invalid, the remaining provisions and their application shall not be affected thereby.  
Provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties signatory hereto agree to immediately meet to re-negotiate such  
provisions affected. The parties agree to arrive ata mutually satisfactory replacement within sixty (60) days unless a  
definite extension of time is mutually agreed to. In the event that the parties are unable to negotiate a replacement, the  
matter shall be resolved through the provisions of Article 12.  
### ARTICLE 17  
### HOURS OF WORK  
### SECTION 1. SINGLE SHIFT OPERATION  
A. Fight (8) hours shall constitute aday’s work, five (5) days shall constitute aweek’s work, Monday through  
Friday.  
B. A single shift operation shall be restricted to the hours between 5:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. and eight (8) hours of  
continuous employment (except for lunch period) shall constitute a day’s work Monday through Friday of each  
week. In the event the job is down due to weather conditions, Monday through Friday, then Saturday may, at the  
option of the Employer, be worked as a voluntary make-up day at the straight time rate. However, Saturday shall  
not be utilized as make-up day when a holiday falls on Fnday.  
C. Four ten (10) hour shifts at the straight time rate may be established on a project either Monday through ‘Thursday  
or Tuesday through There will be no ovedapping of four ten (10) hour shifts between crews or other  
crafts on the same project of the Employer. In the event the job is down due to weather conditions, then Friday  
(when working Monday through may at the option of the Employer, be worked as a make-up day, In  
11  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
the event the job is down due to weather conditions, then Saturday (when working Tuesday through Friday), may,  
at the option of the Employer, be worked as avoluntary make-up day. All hours worked in excess of ten (10)  
hours a day or forty (40) hours a week must be compensated at the overtime rate. However, Saturday shall not be  
utilized as a make-up day when a holiday falls on Friday.  
D. No employee shall be discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced or transferred for refusing to work a voluntary  
make-up day, provided they inform the Employer they will not be working.  
FE. In the event of a civil emergency such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, floods, or fires, starting time of the shift  
may be made to fit the emergency and eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period may be worked at  
Straight time. In order to work such shift, mutual agreement shall be received.  
F. Special Shifts: When due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer or when contract specifications  
require that work can only be performed outside the regular day shift, then shift may be worked at the  
Straight time rate. The starting time of work will be arranged to fit such conditions of work. Such shift shall  
consist of eight (8) hours work for eight (8) hours pay orten (10) hours work for ten (10) hours pay for four ten  
hour shifts worked in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.  
The Employer shall provide three (3) days written notice to the Union pnor to starting shift.  
G. Holiday Week: In the event that a holiday is celebrated during the week (Monday through Friday), the remaining  
four days of the week may be worked as four ten hour shifts, as defined in paragraph (c) of this Section.  
SECTION 2. MULTIPLE SHIFT OPERATION: Shifts may be established when considered necessary by the  
Employer. Shift hours and rates will be as follows:  
A. ‘Two Shift Operation: On a two (2) consecutive shift operation, no shift penalty is involved for work performed  
on either of these two (2) shifts. Each shift must be scheduled for at least eight (8) hours except as provided for in  
Section 1 of this Article. Ona two (2) shift operation, the second shift shall be established for aminimum of  
three (3) days. The Employer shall notify the Local Union prior to the start of a two (2) shift operation. Once the  
Starting times are established for the two (2) shift operation, they shall not be changed except upon three (3)  
working days, written notice to the Union.  
B. Three Shift Operation: On a three (3) shift operation, the following shall apply:  
1. First Shift - The regular hours of work on the first shift of three (3) shift operations shall be eight (8)  
hours of continuous employment, except for lunch period at mid-shift, between the hours of 5:00 A.M.  
and 6:00 P.M.  
2. Second Shift - The second shift shall be seven and one-half (7/2) hours of continuous employment,  
except for lunch period at mid-shift, and shall be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time hourly wage rate.  
3. Third Shift - The third shift shall consist of seven (7) consecutive hours of employment, except for lunch  
period at mid-shift, and shall be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time hourly wage rate.  
C. Multiple shift ( atwo (2) or three (3) shift) operation will not be construed on the entire project if at any time it is  
deemed advisable and necessary for the Employer to multiple shift aspecific operation. Those groups of  
employees only who relieve first shift groups of employees and such first shift groups of employees who are  
relieved by groups of employees on asecond shift, and on a three shift operation those groups of employees who  
relieve the groups of employees on asecond shift, shall be construed as working multiple shifts. The intent of this  
Clause shall be construed so as to recognize that a “reliever group” and a “relief group” do not necessarily mean  
“employee for employee” relief.  
12  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
D. Itis understood and agreed when the first shift of a multiple shift (a two (2) or three (3) shift) operation is started  
at the basic straight time rate or at a specific overtime rate, all shifts of that day’s operation shall be completed at  
that rate.  
FE. TheEmployer shall notify the Local Union prior to the start of a multiple shift (a two (2) or three (3) shift).  
### SECTION 3. GENERAL PROVISIONS:  
A. Call Out’ When employees have completed their scheduled shift and are “called out” to perform special work of a  
casual, incidental or irregular nature they shall receive premium pay in accordance with the proper overtime rates  
with a minimum guarantee of two (2) hours pay at the overtime wage rate. When an employee is  
called out to work without at least eight (8) hours off since his/her previous shift, all such call out time shall be  
paid at the applicable overtime rate until the employee has had a break of eight (8) hours or more.  
B. Paving Operations. To take full advantage of weather conditions, starting time of operations for the paving of  
asphalt paving, road oiling and concrete paving will be at the option of the Employer. However, standby time  
will be considered as part of the regular operation and will be paid at the regular rate.  
C. Tide Work. When employees are called out between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. to work broken time on  
tide work, all time worked shall be at time and one-half (11/2) the basic hourly rate of pay, and a minimum of four  
(4) hours will be paid at the employee's straight time rate. Except for the above, all tide work shall be worked in  
accordance with provisions of the general Agreement.  
D. Maintenance, Watchperson and Flagger. When no other work is in progress and it is necessary to keep a  
maintenance person, watchperson, or flagger on duty on Saturdays and Sundays, they will be paid straight time  
rates but allowed two (2) regular consecutive days off each week. If these employees work more than five (5)  
consecutive days in any one week, the sixth day shall be paid for at time and one-half (11/2) the basic rate and  
the seventh (7°) day shall be paid for at double (2x) the basic rate.  
### ARTICLE 18  
### OVERTIME  
SECTION 1. Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours of straight time per day, or ten (10) hours of straight time per  
day when four ten (10) hour shifts are established, Monday through Friday, or outside the normal shift, and all work on  
Saturdays, except for make-up days, shall be paid at time and one-half the straight time rate. All work performed on  
Sundays and holidays and work in excess of twelve (12) hours per day shall be paid at double (2x) the straight time rate of  
pay.  
The Employer shall have the sole discretion to assign overtime work to employees. Primary consideration for overtime  
work shall be given to employees regularly assigned to the work to be performed on overtime situations.  
SECTION 2. After an employee has worked eight (8) hours at an applicable overtime rate, all additional hours shall be  
at the applicable overtime rate until such time as the employee has had a break of eight (8) hours or more.  
### ARTICLE 19  
### REPORTING AND MINIMUM HOURS PAY  
SECTION 1. Reporting Pay: Employees reporting for work and not put to work shall receive two (2) hours pay at the  
regular straight time rate, unless inclement weather conditions prohibits work, or notified not to report at the end of the  
previous shift or two (2) hours prior to the start of a shift. Employer may require employees to remain at the jobsite  
for the two (2) hours to receive such reporting pay.  
It is understood that it shall be the responsibility of the Employer to secure from each employee a telephone number by  
which to be contacted. The Employer will make every effort to notify employees of inclement weather conditions. If the  
13  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
employee does not, at the Employer's request, fumish a telephone number or fails to inform the Employer of any change  
of number at which he may be reached, then the Employer shall be relieved of any responsibility of notification and shall  
not have to pay show-up time.  
When employees, including new hires, reporting for work amive on the job unprepared to perform the work required (for  
example, including but not limited to: under the influence of alcohol or drugs, not possessing the right requested  
certifications, or inadequately clothed), the Employer shall not have to pay show up time. If the employee is put to work  
and lacks requested qualifications employer shall pay actual time worked only.  
Reporting pay on overtime days shall be a minimum of two (2) hours at the applicable overtime wage rate.  
SECTION 2. Employees who work less than two (2) hours shall be paid two (2) hours; they shall be paid a minimum  
of four (4) hours if required to work more than two (2) hours; they shall be paid a minimum of six (6) hours if required to  
work more than four (4) hours; they shall be paid eight (8) hours if required to work more than six (6) hours; and they  
Shall be paid ten (10) hours if required to work more than eight (8) hours on a regularly established ten (10) hour shift.  
When a shift is suspended due to inclement weather, after the two (2) hour minimum, employees shall be paid for actual  
time worked.  
SECTION 3. — If any employee refuses to start work or if any employee stops work of his own volition, the mmimums  
set forth in Section 2 above shall not apply.  
SECTION 4. — Any applicant who is required to report to the Employer's designated location for employment orientation  
Shall be paid a minimum two (2) hours reporting time. Any applicant who is required by the Employer to travel more than  
thirty (S30) miles from the dispatch point to the employment orientation shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours  
reporting time. The Employer who conducts the orientation at the job location and puts the applicant to work shall not be  
Subject to the provisions of this Section 4.  
### ARTICLE 20  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS CLAUSE  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer retains full and exclusive authority for the management of its operation unless otherwise  
limited. by this bargaining Agreement. The Employer shall direct his working forces at his sole prerogative including, but  
not limited to hiring, promotion, transfer, layoff or discharge for just cause as traditionally practiced within the  
construction industry. The Employer shall utilize the most efficient methods or techniques of construction, tools or labor  
Saving devices. ‘There shall be no limitations upon the choice of matenals ordesign except those imposed by safety and  
health considerations.  
SECTION 2. enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to exclude other functions not  
specifically set forth. The Employer retains all legal rights not specifically covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. — It shall not be a violation of this Agreement when an Employer considers it necessary to shut down ajob  
to avoid the possible loss of human life, because of an emergency situation beyond the Employer's control that could  
endanger the life and safety of an employee. In such cases, employees will be compensated only for the actual time  
worked. In the case of a situation described above whereby the Employer requests the employees to stand by, the  
employees will be compensated for the “stand by” time.  
If such a condition continues, the Employer agrees to give at least two (2) hours notice to members of the next shift  
scheduled to report for duty. In the event that at least two (2) hours notice is not given, employees who report for work at  
their regular reporting time and are not put to work shall be paid “show up pay”.  
This article shall be subject to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 12.  
14  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
### ARTICLE 21  
### SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
SECTION 1. Both parties recognize that there may be extenuating circumstances when it is to the mutual interest of  
both parties to modify the terms of this Agreement. In that event, it will not be aviolation of this Agreement for the  
parties to meet and mutually agree to make such modifications to meet a specific need on a specific project.  
SECTION 2. In order to maximize the effect of this provision, all crafts will be requested to act uniformly. The  
General Contractor shall encourage his subcontractors to comply with any modifications granted under this provision.  
### ARTICLE 22  
### PRE-DETERMINED WAGE RATE PROJECTS  
SECTION 1. In the event the Employer bids a public job or project being awarded by a Federal, state, county, city or  
other public entity which is to be performed at a pre-determined and/or prevailing wage rate established or established by  
the U.S. Department of Labor (pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act, 40 U.S.C.§ 3141 et seg., whose regulations are contained  
in 29 CFR Parts 1, 3, 5, 6, and 7 and which determinations are published in the Federal Register) or by the Director of the  
Washington State Department of Labor and Industries (pursuant to RCW 39.12.010 to RCW 39.12.900) prevailing wages  
on public works Washington State, Prevailing Wage on Public Works, the published hourly wage rate set forth in said  
public work at the time of bid shall apply for the first twenty-four (24) months of the project from the date the Contractor  
is pennitted to proceed. After twenty-four (24) months the current contract wage and fringe rate will apply. The fringe  
benefit rates shall be those as established and maintained by the Master Agreement and any fringe increases  
are the responsibility of the Employer. Notwithstanding the above, the project agreements may be mutually agreed upon  
to allow use of the pre-determined wage rate for the duration of a project to exceed twenty-four (24) months.  
SECTION 2. — In the event the specifications include an escalator provision covering wages, such amount will be  
included as an increase to wages to the extent that the Employer may recover in the escalator claim.  
SECTION 3. Except as provided in Article 17, Section 1 B and C (makeup days) on affected Washington State public  
works projects, all work performed on Saturdays shall be paid at time and one-half (11/2) the straight time rate and all work  
performed on Sundays and holidays shall be paid at double (2x) the straight time rate, as established by the prevailing  
wage determinations for the project (overtime code and holiday code).  
SECTION 4. ‘The Employer shall, when requested in writing, supply accurate and reliable information on company  
Stationery that will assist the Union in establishing the correct rates when responding to govemmmental requests for  
prevailing wage data.  
### ARTICLE 23  
### UNION DUES DEDUCTIONS  
SECTION 1. Upon presentation of a proper authorization form executed by the individual employee, the Employer  
agrees to deduct Union dues from net pay after taxes and remit same to the Union in accordance with applicable law. It is  
understood the Employers will remit each month the Union dues deducted in accordance with this Article on the  
transmittal forms used for fringe benefit contnbutions and that the pro-rata costs of such forms and the collection and  
accounting thereof will be paid by the Union to the fringe benefit administrator.  
### ARTICLE 24  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
SECTION 1. ‘The parties to this Agreement acknowledge and agree to comply with the requirements of Federal and  
State laws, Executive Orders and other rules and regulations goveming civil rights to insure that there shall be no  
discrimination in employment against any employee or applicant for employment because of age, race, color, religion, sex  
or national origin.  
15  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
SECTION 2. ‘The parties hereto recognize that the compliance with project specifications is of paramount  
importance. It is mutually agreed, therefore, by the parties to this Agreement, that provisions of this Agreement will be  
interpreted, applied and enforced in a manner that will serve to assure compliance with project specifications as they relate  
### ARTICLE 25  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
SECTION 1. Labor and Management are committed to providing employees with a drug-free and alcohol-free work  
place. It is the goal to protect the health and safety of employees and to promote a productive work place, and to protect  
the reputation of Labor and Management and the employees.  
SECTION 2. Consistent with these goals, the Employer prohibits the use, possession, distibution or sale, at its  
employment sites, of drugs, drug paraphemalia or alcohol. A testing program pursuant to the Substance Abuse Program,  
may be instituted, upon mutual consent of labor and management, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, to  
monitor compliance with this policy.  
SECTION 3. An acceptable Substance Abuse Program is contained in a separate addendum to this Collective  
Bargaining Agreement, but it is not a part of this Agreement and modifications to this Substance Abuse Program, by  
mutual agreement of an Employer and the Union, will not constitute a change to this Agreement.  
SECTION 4. Any grievance related to any Employer's substance abuse program shall be resolved through Article 12,  
Settlement of Disputes, of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 26  
### WASHINGTON LABORERS-EMPLOYERS COOPERATION AND EDUCATION TEAM  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer and the Union recognize that they must confront many issues of mutual concem which are  
more susceptible to resolution through Labor-Management Cooperation than through collective bargaining. To seek  
resolution of these mutual concems and to advance mutual interest through Labor-Management Cooperative efforts, the  
Employer and the Union agree to participate in the Washington Laborers’-Employers’ Cooperation and Education Team  
(WALECET) which is established in accordance with Section 302 (C)(9) of the Taft-Hartley Act.  
SECTION 2. ‘The parties agree that the Employers shall contribute to WALECET an amount provided in Schedule A  
for each employee covered by this Agreement. Said contribution shall become effective for hours worked starting  
January 1, 2006 and for each month thereafter for the term of this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. Contributions will be made on the same form as the Health and Security payments. The pro-rata costs of  
such forms, collection and accounting will be paid by the WALECET to the fringe benefit administrator.  
SECTION 4. ‘This Article will sunset May 31, 2018 unless the parties to this contract mutually agree to continue the  
contnibutions to WALECET or to reallocate for another purpose.  
### ARTICLE 27  
### LIGHT DUTY RETURN TO WORK  
SECTION 1. ‘The Employer may retum an injured employee to light duty status when allowed. by the employee’s  
doctor. When such light duty work is available, light duty functions may not be work of another craft or work under  
Classifications covered by the Master Laborers Agreement.  
SECTION 2. At no time will the employee’s total eamings be less than his/her full time loss compensation under  
industnal insurance. Further, the employee will be provided with a full fringe package, as per the collective bargaining  
agreement, over and above total remuneration.  
16  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
SECTION 3. Should the employee on light duty have to be laid off due to no work available, the Employer will not  
adversely affect his/her ability to continue to receive loss time benefits from the Industnal Insurance Division of Labor  
and Industries (including self-insured employers), provided they are still medically eligible.  
### APPENDIX 1  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGES  
SCHEDULE A. WESTERN WASHINGTON: ‘Toinclude the following counties: Whatcom, Skagit, Snohomish,  
King, Pierce, Thurston, Lewis, that portion of Pacific County north of astraight line made by extending the north  
boundary of Wahkiakum County west to the Pacific Ocean, Grays Harbor, Clallam, Jefferson, Mason, Kitsap, Island and  
San Juan.  
### SCHEDULE B. FRINGE BENEFITS  
### SCHEDULE C., ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
### APPENDIX 2  
### CRAFT WORKING RULES  
### APPENDIX 3  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
### APPENDIX 4  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON PROVISIONS  
### APPENDIX 5  
### HIRING OF APPRENTICES  
### APPENDIX 6  
### OPERATION OF LOCAL UNION HIRING HALLS  
### APPENDIX 7  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
17  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
### SCHEDULE “A”  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE SCALES  
SECTION 1. Wage scales shall be recognized as applying to classifications and employees shall be paid at the rate of  
the classification which their work calls for.  
The wage rates in the schedules below shall become effective June 1, 2015, and shall remain in effect until May 31, 2018.  
### NOTE: ONLY ZONE “A” RATES ARE SHOWN FOR ALL CLASSIFICATIONS. REFER'TO SCHEDULE “C”  
### FOR ZONE “B” & “C” RATE ADJUSTMENTS.  
### SECTION 2.  
po June 1, 2015 | Jue 1, 2016* | June 1, 2017*  
po 802  
po A | 826,70 OS  
Pp MB] 829028 820  
88383988  
ov  
a a  
     
$34.20 +$1.33 +$1.35  
$34.76 +$1.34 +$1.36  
VI Tunnel Work $34.76 +$1.34 +$1.36  
* ‘Total package increase. The 2016 and 2017 allocation of the wage/fringe will be determined sixty (60) days prior to the  
anniversary date.  
### IIA  
### IV  
### V  
### DEDUCTION FROM WAGES  
(These deductions are included in wages)  
Effective Date  
Po June 1, 2015 July 1, 2016 June 1, 2017  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
Effective Date  
June 1, 2015 June 1, 2016 June 1, 2017  
Health & Security $6.10  
$3.80  
Apprenticeship  
Training/R etrainine $0.55  
Tunnel  
### WALECET  
### WCISAP  
* Apprenticeship/Training-Tunnel contributions shall only apply to Group 6 Tunnel Work classifications and is an  
addition to the Apprenticeship/Training contibution.  
Apprenticeship Rates: Percentage Computed on Group IIT Rate.  
Apprentices registered prior to June 1, 2012.  
   
18  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
Apprenticeship Rates  
Effective Date  
P| June 1, 2015 June 1, 2016 June 1, 2017  
0 - 1000 hours  
1001 - 2000 hours  
Apprentices registered beginning June 1, 2012 will participate in the 6000 hour progre  
po June 1, 2015 | Jue 1, 2016 | June 1, 2017  
The fringe benefit contribution rates for the apprentices shall be the same as forjoumeymen. However, at no time will  
apprentices’ wages rates exceed those of joumeymen for the same classification of work.  
### GROUPS  
Group 1 _ Landscaping & Planting & Inigation Sprinkler Systems (1)  
Watchman  
Window Washer/Cleaner (2)  
1. Landscape construction does not include:  
Any activity or task when performed preparatory to any non-landscaping construction work.  
Constructing roads, footpaths, trails or rock walls more than four feet high.  
Custom fabrication of trellis work, play equipment, benches or picnic tables.  
Constructing restrooms, shelters or similar structures.  
Installing sewer systems, storm sewer systems, catch basins, vaults or drainage systems for  
impervious surfaces (such as parking lots).  
Installing drainage systems or underground sprinkler systems more than three feet below final  
   
   
grade.  
Land clearing, dozing, grading, excavating or hauling except as permitted above.  
Tree falling or bucking.  
Sub-grade preparation.  
The use of power equipment with more than ninety horsepower.  
The use of trucks with more than one rear axle except hydroseeders.  
Demolition of structures.  
Asphalt or concrete work except incidental anchorage for play equipment, benches or picnic  
tables.  
Welding.  
Installing agricultural imigation systems.  
Encapsulation of landfills.  
[Statutory Authority: Chapter 39.12 RCW, RCW 43.22.270 and 43.22.050. 00-15-077, § 296-127-01346,  
filed 7/19/00, effective 7/19/00. ]  
2. Detail clean-up, such as, but not limited to, cleaning floors, ceilings, walls, windows, etc. prior to final  
acceptance by the Owner.  
Group ITA’ | Batch Weighman Firewatch  
Crusher Feeder Plagger  
Fence Laborer Pilot Car  
19  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
   
Traffic Control Laborer  
Group III Air, Gas or Electric Vibrating Screed Fine Graders  
General Asbestos Abatement Worker Gabian Basket Builders  
Laborer Ballast Regular Machine Grout Machine ‘Tender  
Bnick Pavers Grinders  
Brush Cutter Guardrail Erectors  
Brush Hog Feeder Hazardous Waste Worker (Level C)  
Bumer Lead Abatement Worker  
Carpenter Tender Maintenance Person  
Cement Finisher ‘Tender Material Y ard Person  
Change House or Dry Shack Mold Abatement Worker  
Chipping Gun (Under 30 lbs.) Pot Tender  
Choker Setter Powdernan’ s Helper  
Chuck Tender Rip Rap Person  
Clean-up Laborer Scale Person  
Concrete Form Stripper Scaffold Erector  
Curing Laborer Sloper Sprayer  
Demolition: Wrecking & Moving (Including Stake Hopper  
charred matenal) Stock Piler  
Ditch Digger Toolroom Person (At job site)  
Dry Stack Walls Topper  
Dump Person ‘Track Laborer  
Epoxy Technician Truck Spotter  
Control Worker Vinyl Seamer  
Cement Dumper Paving Pipe Layer (1) Tailer Caulker  
Chipping Gun (30 lbs. and over) Pipe Pot Tender  
Clary Power Spreader Pipe Reliner  
Concrete Dumper/Chute Operator Pipe Wrapper  
Concrete Placement Crew Power Jacks  
Concrete Saw Operator/Core Dniler Railroad Spike Puller Power  
Dnill Operator (Hydraulic, Diamond) Rigger/Signal Person  
Faller & Bucker Chain Saw Rivet Buster  
Form Setter Rodder  
Groutmen (Pressure) including Post'Tension Sloper (Over 20”)  
Beams Spreader (Concrete)  
Hazardous Waste Worker (Level B) ‘Tamper (multiple & self-propelled)  
Jackhammer ‘Tamper & similar electric, air & gas  
Operator operated tools  
Manhole Builder-Mudman Timber Person-Sewer (Lagger, Shorer  
Mortarman & Hodcarier & Cribber)  
Nozzleman (Concrete Pump, Green Cutter when | Track Liner - Power  
using combination of high pressure air & water | Tugger Operator  
on concrete & rock, sandblast, gunite, shotcrete, | Vibrator  
Water Blaster, Vacuum Blaster) Welder  
Pavement Breaker Well Point Laborer  
Remote Equipment Operator (2)  
(1) Including pressure and non-pressure ductile pipe, gravity pipe and HDPE (fused and non-fused)  
(2) ite Compaction and Demolition  
   
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
Airtrack Dnill Operator Powderman  
Caisson Worker  
Diver Hazardous Waste Worker (Level A)  
High Scaler Mortarman & Hodcamier  
Grade Checker & Transit Person Raker- Asphalt  
Group VI  
Tunnel Work Gauge and Lock ‘Tender  
Motorman-Dinky Locomotive  
Compressed Air Worker 1, 2015 June 1, 2016 June 1, 2017  
### TBD  
### a TBD  
72.01 - 74.00 psi $91.16  
Rates over 74.00 psi shall be negotiated.  
   
SECTION 3. Swinging Stage/Boatswain Chair. Employees working on a swinging stage or boatswain chair or under  
conditions that require them to be tied off to allow their hands to be free shall receive fifty cents ($0.50) per hour above  
the classification rate. This provision also applies to high scalers when using pneumatic tools.  
SECTION 4. Cofferdam Work: Miners shall be employed on work within or behind cofferdams if hazard is equivalent  
to shaft excavation.  
SECTION 5. Compressed Air Work: The conditions for compressed air work are contained in Appendix 3 to this  
Agreement and hereby become a part of this Agreement as though contained in the body thereof. ‘The wage schedule is  
now listed under Appendix I, Schedule A, Group VI Tunnel Work.  
SECTION 6. Riggers, Bumers and Welders shall be paid according to the classification in which they are working.  
SECTION 7. Foreman, Asbestos, Lead, Mold or'Toxic Waste Supervisor. When one of the Laborers is designated to  
act as a Foreman, Asbestos, Lead, Mold or'Toxic Waste Supervisor, that individual shall receive two dollars and fifty  
cents ($2.50) per hour above the highest Laborers’ classification supervised.  
Traffic Control Supervisors shall receive two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) above their Group ITB rate when they are  
supervising Flaggers and/or Traffic Control Laborers.  
Foreman - When an employee has the responsibility of supervising Laborers on the project, he/she shall be a Laborer and  
Shall be paid foreman’s scale. Foremen shall receive two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour above the highest paid  
Joumeyman Laborer classification supervised.  
The Employer has the right to assign a non-bargaining unit employee as the Traffic Control Supervisor. However, if the  
employee performs any work of a “Traffic Control Laborer’, he/she shall be required to make membership in the Union in  
accordance with the requirements of Article 5.  
SECTION 8. Live Sewer. When Laborers are required to work in or with live sanitary sewage, they will receive a  
premium pay of forty dollars ($40.00) per day above their regular daily classification pay. Further, the Employer will pay  
21  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
for all necessary inoculations to prevent disease if requested by the employee and as recommended by the Department of  
Labor and Industries (Industrial Safety & Health Division).  
SECTION 9. Fringe Option: Union option to take up to twenty cents ($0.20) from wages to apply to fringe benefits  
with sixty (60) day notice pnor to any anniversary date of this Agreement. If any additional sums are necessary to  
maintain fringe benefit plans, by mutual agreement such sums may be deducted from wages at any anniversary date of the  
Agreement.  
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE “B”  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
SECTION 1. Health and Secunitty: It is agreed that all Employers employing employees within the geographical area  
covered by this Agreement shall contnbute asum as listed in Schedule “A”, for each hour worked by all employees  
performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said contibutions shall be made to the  
Northwest Laborers-Employers Health and Security Trust Fund in the manner as set forth in the Trust Agreement of said  
Trust Fund. The details of the Health and Security Plan established by this Trust Fund shall continue to be controlled and  
administered. by a Joint Board of ‘Trustees composed of equal representation from the Unions and the Chapters of the  
Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., who are signatories to the Trust Agreement of the aforesaid Trust Fund.  
Fach trustee appointed by the Union shall be a member of the Union, or a regular paid employee of the Union. Each  
trustee appointed for the Employer after June 1, 2003, shall be amember with assigned bargaining nghts, of an affiliated  
firm of the Chapters, that is making regular contnbutions on compensable hours to the Trust or a regular paid employee of  
the Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. The'Trust Agreement, as amended, shall become a  
part of this Agreement.  
SECTION 2. — Pension:  
A. Itis agreed that all Employers employing employees within the geographic area covered by this Agreement shall  
contribute a sum, as listed in Schedule “A,” for each hour worked by all employees performing work covered by  
this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said contributions shall be made to the Westem Washington  
Laborers-Employers Pension Fund in the manner as set forth in the Trust Agreement of the said Trust Fund. The  
details of the Pension Plan established by this ‘Trust shall continue to be controlled and administered by a Joint  
Board of ‘Trustees composed of equal representation from the Unions and the Chapters of the Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc., who are signatories to the Trust Agreement of the aforesaid Trust Fund. Each  
trustee appointed by the Union shall be amember of the Union, or aregular paid employee of the Union. Each  
trustee appointed for the Employer after June 1, 2003, shall be amember with assigned bargaining nights of an  
affiliated firm of the Chapters, that is making regular contnibutions on compensable hours to the Trust or a regular  
paid employee of the Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. The'Trust Agreement, as  
amended, shall become a part of this Agreement. Contributions will be made on the same form as Health &  
Secunty payments.  
B. Itis agreed that a portion of the negotiated contributions to the Pension Fund in 2A above, in an amount  
determined by the Board of ‘Trustees of the Pension Fund in consultation with the Pension Fund actuary, may be  
remitted to a Non-Qualified Excess Benefit Trust to be utilized as necessary to establish, fund and administer the  
Non-Qualified Excess Benefit Trust and a Non-Qualified Excess Benefit Plan under guidelines established in  
Intemal Revenue Service Letter Rulings. The Excess Benefit Plan will be used solely to provide pension benefits  
to the Pension Fund participants whose benefits are otherwise limited by the Intemal Revenue Code Section 415.  
The Excess Benefit Plan and Trust will be administered by a Board of Trustees, consisting of the same Trustees  
who administer the Pension Fund. The Pension Fund Trustees are granted the authority to establish and maintain  
the Excess Benefit Plan and Trust, provided that the language of the Excess Benefit Plan will allow for its  
if continuing benefits under the Excess Benefit Plan will impair the funding status of the Pension  
Plan, or if legislation is adopted modifying Intemal Revenue Code Section 415 to such an extent that the Excess  
Benefit Plan is no longer required. Insuch event, the remaining articles and sections of this collective bargaining  
agreement shall be unaffected and shall otherwise remain in full force and effect.  
De  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
SECTION 3. Credit Union: It is agreed that all Employers employing employees within the geographic area covered  
by this Agreement shall subtract asum, as listed in Schedule “A” from each employee’s net pay check (after taxes), for  
each hour worked by its employees performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said  
contributions shall be made to Qualstar Credit Union. Contnbutions will be made on the same form as Health & Security  
payments and that the pro-rata costs of such forms and the collection and accounting thereof will be paid by the Union to  
the fringe benefit administrator.  
SECTION 4. ‘Training: It is agreed that all Employers employing employee within the geographic area covered by this  
Agreement shall contribute a sum, as listed in Schedule “A”, for each hour worked by all employees performing work  
covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said contnibutions shall be made to the Northwest Laborers-  
Employers Training Fund in the manner as set forth in the Trust Agreement of said ‘Trust Fund. The details of the  
Training Program established by this Trust Fund shall continue to be controlled and administered by aJoint Board of  
‘Trustees composed of equal representation from the Union and Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of  
Amenica, Inc., who are signatories to the Trust Agreement of the aforesaid Trust Fund. Each trustee appointed by the  
Union shall bea member of the Union or a regular paid employee of the Union. Each Trustee appointed by the  
Employers after June 1, 2003 shall be a member with assigned bargaining nights of an affiliated firm of the Chapters that  
is making regular contnbutions on compensable hours to the Trust or aregular paid employee of the Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc. The'Trust Agreement, as amended shall become a part of this Agreement. Contnbutions  
will be made on the same form as Health & Security payments.  
SECTION 5. Economic Action: In the event an Employer fails to make the monetary contributions in confommnity with  
this section of the Agreement, the Union is free to take any economic action against such Employer it deems necessary,  
including, but not limited to, the removal of all employees covered by this Agreement and such action shall not be  
considered a violation of this Agreement.  
SECTION 6. — Rights of Parties: It is understood that the Union and Employer Associations are principal parties to all  
Trust Agreements and are, therefore, entitled to full information on the action of the trustees and the operation of the  
‘Trust.  
SECTION 7. ‘Trust Agreements: The individual Trust documents are part of this Agreement as if included herein, but  
may be amended during the term of this Agreement and such amendments when adopted by the parties shall also become  
part of the Agreement.  
SECTION 8. Consolidation Study: The trustees may have a study made to see if it would be beneficial to the funds and  
their recipients if any or all of the trusts were consolidated or merged with the Trust Funds of any other Trusts. If the  
Study shows that a consolidation or merger would be beneficial, then the Bargaining Committee will consider such  
merger. The trustees have the authority to investigate, evaluate and present their recommendations to the negotiating  
committee regarding merger, consolidation, amalgamation, joinder or other similar situations. The trustees’ authority, in  
this respect, shall be limited to the power to prepare and recommend agreements to consummate the same and to  
recommend the transfer of the monies and properties of the said ‘Trust Fund or Funds to any successor trust.  
SECTION 9. It is agreed by the Employers within the area covered by this Agreement that this section covering the  
Employers’ ‘Trust Fund contnibutions shall continue as a separate written agreement including the legal remedies for  
collection of contnibutions during the period of negotiations foranew agreement, and may be enforced by the ‘Trust Funds  
in either State or Federal Court, at the election of the Trust Funds.  
23  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE “C”  
### ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
SECTION 1. ‘The payment for transportation rembursement shall be govemed by the following provisions:  
The parties recognize that it is sometimes inconvenient to get to the job location because of varying distances. It  
is agreed and understood that while traveling to and from work, the employees are not within the course and  
scope of their employment and the relationship of Employeremployee does not commence until hourly wage  
commences.  
SECTION 2. ‘The parties therefore adopt the following provisions for wage scales:  
### FOR THE FOLLOWING WESTERN WASHINGTON CITIES:  
Aberdeen Kent Seattle  
Bellingham Mt Vemon Shelton  
Bremerton Olympia ‘Tacoma  
Centralia Port Angeles  
Everett Port Townsend  
Zone Pay Remuneration:  
A. All jobs or projects located within twenty-five (25) radius miles of the respective city halls of the above  
mentioned cities shall receive the basic rate of pay for all classifications (Zone A) as listed in Schedule “A”.  
B. All jobs or projects located more than twenty-five (25) radius miles and less than forty-five (45) radius miles from  
the respective city halls of the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone “B” allowance. The basic rate of pay  
Shall be increased by one dollar ($1.00) per hour.  
C. All jobs or projects located more than forty-five (45) radius miles from the respective city halls of the above  
mentioned cities shall receive Zone “C” allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased by one dollar and  
thirty cents ($1.30) per hour.  
### SECTION 3.1. FOR THE FOLLOWING CENTRAL WASHINGTON CITIES:  
Chelan Sunnyside Wenatchee Y akima  
Zone Pay Remuneration:  
A. All jobs or projects located within twenty-five (25) radius miles of the respective city halls of the above  
mentioned cities shall receive the basic rate of pay for all classifications (Zone A) as listed in Appendix 4.  
B. All jobs or projects located more than twenty-five (25) radius miles from the respective city halls of the above  
mentioned cities shall receive Zone “B” allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased by two dollars and  
twenty-five cents ($2.25) per hour.  
SECTION 3.2. FOR ELLENSBURG: All jobs or projects located more than twenty (20) radius miles from the  
City Hall shall receive Zone “B” allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased by two dollars and  
twenty-five cents ($2.25) per hour.  
SECTION 4. ‘Toll & Ferry Fares: All necessary ferry or other forms of water transportation made necessary by the  
Special conditions of a specific project are to be reimbursed by the Employer in the following instances and manner:  
24.  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
A. Employees will be reimbursed for the passenger’s fare or passenger’s carfare when substantiated by receipts,  
Submitted within thirty (30) days of expense.  
B. When employees elect to temporanily live at or near the project and forego daily ferry travel, it is recognized that  
they are entitled to the prerogative of visiting their homes for the weekend, and in that event charges shall be paid  
for such weekend travel as substantiated by receipts, submitted within thirty (30) days of expense.  
C. When circumstances make it necessary that atoll bridge be utilized, the employees will be reimbursed  
accordingly. ‘The oyer shall tolls for all co owned vehicles. ‘The oyee shall not be  
pay tolls for company owned vehicles.  
SECTION 5. Board & Lodging: When an Employer provides camp or board and lodging, the basic wage scale will be  
observed and the rate for camp or board and lodging will not exceed fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day to be paid by the  
employee. Any costs over fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day will be absorbed by the Employer. On jobs in remote areas  
where camp or board and lodging is not provided and housing is inadequate or the cost of housing is prohibitive the  
Employer will make every effort to arrange for housing at reasonable rates to its employees.  
On jobs where an Employer establishes a camp with board and lodging, or where the Employer prohibits private vehicles  
beyond a designated area, which in either case is more than reasonable walking distance from the job site, the Employer,  
the District Council representative and the Chapter representative concemed shall be required to enter into immediate  
negotiations to establish all conditions of travel and/or transportation from the camp or parking area to the place of work  
on the job site.  
### APPENDIX 2  
### CRAFT WORKING RULES  
SECTION 1. Shop Steward: There will be no discrimination against any worker because of past or present union  
activities or because of race, creed, sex, age or color. However, no workman, unless he/she has been designated as the  
working steward on the job, is to use the time for union activities. ‘The Employer shall be informed of the  
names of the appointed stewards.  
The of the job steward shall be limited to the investigation of complaints which may be in violation of this  
collective bargaining agreement. He/she shall present such finding to the Union Agent for processing.  
No steward shall be allowed to solicit membership in this organization or to collect any monies from any employees, nor  
Shall they have any authority to take strike action or any action interrupting the Employer's business, and shall perform  
work of the Employer to the same extent as other employees.  
When an Employer or superintendent deems it necessary to discharge an appointed working steward during the course of  
he/she will, to maintain harmony, inform the Union beforehand of the necessity of such action.  
SECTION 2. Union Notification: When an Employer moves into a temitory away from its home area in the junsdiction  
of the Washington and Northem Idaho District Council to begin a new project, he/she will notify the District Council  
pnior to starting said project.  
SECTION 3. Protective Clothing: On sewer, water mains, tunnels, concrete and other work which actually warrants,  
such protective clothing as rubber boots, pants, coats and leather or rubber gloves of proper size will be supplied by the  
Employer, such clothing to be charged and signed out to the employee who are to guarantee their retum in like condition,  
normal wear and tear excepted or pay for the same. Rubber gear will not be fumished to tum foul weather.  
SECTION 4. Flaggers: It is agreed by placing the classification of flaggers under Group ITA that when in the opinion  
of the Employer the “uniform” has the effect of better control of traffic and thereby protects the public and the workmen  
on major arterials or severely congested city streets or highways, the Employer may use off duty uniformed policemen  
29  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
without violation of this Labor Agreement. However, the Employer may not use retired policemen or security guards.  
Further, it is the intent to use Laborers who are certified as flaggers where possible.  
Where conditions are normal, it is the intent to use Laborers to do on-the-job flagging, on new roads or street construction  
and on sewer and other work in residential orrureal areas.  
SECTION 5. ‘Termination Notices: Upon termination, each employee will be given atenmnination notice. If they are  
not eligible forrehire the reasons will be stated.  
SECTION 6. A single pre-job conference will be held if requested by either party. Additional pre-job conferences may  
be held if requested by either party.  
### APPENDIX 3  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
It is agreed that the following provisions shall apply on work under compressed air:  
SECTION 1. Except as stated or modified hereafter, the condition provisions of the Master Agreement apply.  
SECTION 2. All travel, compression time and decompression time shall be exclusive of time worked as set  
forth in the wage schedule below, but compensation for this time is included in the pay set forth for the work shift.  
SECTION 3. ‘Thereshall be one rate of pay for all classifications and types of work and workmen working under  
compressed. air.  
SECTION 4. Foremen shall receive twelve dollars and eighty cents ($12.80) per shift over workmen.  
SECTION 5. Health and Security shall be paid at eight (8) times the rate in effect for each day worked.  
SECTION 6. Retirement pay shall be paid at eight (8) times the hourly rate in effect for each day worked.  
SECTION 7. Onasix (6) hour shift the employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours from the start  
of the shift without a fifteen (15) minute break for lunch. This lunch period will not begin earlier than three and one-half  
(3'4) hours after the start of the shift. The employees may be rotated so as to keep continuous work at the heading.  
SECTION 8. ‘The highest pressure registered on the gauge for an accumulated time of more than fifteen (15) mimutes  
during the shift shall be used in determining the scale paid.  
SECTION 9. All necessary protective clothing shall be by the Employer, but the employees shall guarantee  
its retum, normal wear and tear excepted.  
SECTION 10. Outside lock tenders and gauge tenders shall be paid at eight (8) times the miner’s rate, but shall work the  
Same shift time as worked by the gang under compressed air.  
SECTION 11. All other outside classifications shall be at classifications and conditions for tmnel workers in free air  
except that cleaning and maintaining of the change house will be done at general laborer rate.  
SECTION 12. Employees shall be relieved at the heading or working points as designated by the Employer.  
SECTION 13. ‘To compute overtime for each hour of overtime worked at the heading, the overtime pay shall be derived  
by dividing the applicable shift rate by the “overtime devisor’ and this figure multiplied by the applicable overtime rate  
from the Master Agreement. On Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, all work shall be at the applicable overtime rate.  
SECTION 14. ‘Thereshall be only one (1) straight time shift in any twenty-four (24) hour period.  
26  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
SECTION 15. When required to retum for additional decompression in the medical decompression chamber, the time  
Spent in medical decompression shall be paid at the General Laborers’ straight time rate and such time shall not be  
considered as time worked.  
SECTION 16. Medical examinations will be provided by the Employer at no cost to the employee. Such examinations  
Shall be conducted on the Employer's time.  
### APPENDIX 4  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON AREA  
SECTION 1. ‘Temitory: This Addendum shall cover all construction work in Chelan, Kittitas, and Yakima Counties  
and that portion of Douglas County lying west of the 120°  
SECTION 2. Adoption of Master Agreement: The parties agree to be bound by, to adopt and incorporate by reference,  
as part of this Addendum, all of the terms and conditions of the Master Labor Agreement, except as provided in this  
Addendum.  
SECTION 3. Wage Rates:  
NOTE: Only zone “A” rates are shown for all classifications. Refer to Appendix 1, Schedule C, Section 3 for zone “B”  
Rate adjustments.  
Group I  
Group IIA  
Group IIB  
Group IV $25.38 +$1.15 +$1.18  
Group V $25.81 +$1.17 +$1.19  
Group VI $25.81 +$1.17 +$1.19  
Apprenticeship Rates: Percentage Computed on Group IIT Rate. Apprentices registered prior to June 1, 2012.  
June 1, 2015  
Apprentices registered beginning J une 1, 2012 will participate in the 6000 hour program.  
0 - 1000 hours $14.87  
1001 - 2000 hours | 70% $17.35  
2001 - 3000 hours | 80% $19.82  
   
Group III $24.78 +$1.13 +$1.16  
   
3001 - 4000 hours $21.06  
4001 - 5000 hours $22.30  
5001 - 6000 hours $23.54  
   
**T otal package increase. The 2016 and 2017 allocation of the wage/fringe package will be determined sixty (60) days  
prior to the anniversary date.  
However, at no time will apprentices’ wage rates, exceed those of joumeymen for the same classification of work.  
The fringe benefit contibution rates for apprentices shall be the same as for joumeymen.  
27  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
### SECTION 4. CENTRAL WASHINGTON HIRING HALL  
A. of workers shall be done in accordance with the National Labor Relations Act as amended to date.  
Discharging of employees upon est of the Union shall be in accordance with the National Labor Relations Act as  
amended.  
B. Union shall establish non-discnminato halls and the over will use these halls as one source of  
ications for consideration for hire. Redi ion and referral of icants shall be on a non-discnminatory basis  
   
without regard to race, color, sex, age or creed or to membership or non-membership in the Union and shall be in  
accordance with the followi ‘The Union shall recister all icants for emplo on the basis of the Grou  
listed below. Each icant shall be req in the highest pnority Group for which he/she is ified.  
C. The over retains the right to reject job icant referred from SOUICE.  
D. overs shall hire Laborers ing the local Union in the area where the work is to be acco  
Whenever the over ires Laborers on y job he shall notify the local Union office either nal contact, in  
wating, or by telephone stating the locatio time ximate duration of the job, the of work to be  
performed and the number of workers required.  
E. _Forthe of this section, each to ajomt venture will retain his individual nghts as an over,  
   
The follow ations will to the and/or rehinng of icants:  
1. Re ests oyers for Laborers on the "A" or “B” List shall be honored without to the ested  
   
be grounds for the Union to est termination of said employee.  
3. Each over est, in waiting, si a principal of the co individuals name in each  
calendar year who are currently registered_on the Union's C or D list on the  
oyers employing less than 10 joum Laborers calendar year est one (1) individual  
name; overs oying more than 10 joum Laborers per calendar year est two (2  
individuals by name. In order for the oyer to ify for this one (1) member from the local Union  
ing junsdiction of a project must be di hed to that oyer under the tenns of this A  
Additional ests be honored by mutual wiitten mt between the over (Owner) and the  
Business Manager in the local area.  
The ing ratio shall not to foremen who have previously worked for the over aS a Fo nor  
to any Foreman who has worked within the Eastem Washington-Northem Idaho area as a Foreman for at least  
2000 hours. The oyer must notify the Union in wiiting of their intent to hire such individuals and the Union  
   
the over to provide proof of ious employment.  
4, Preference will be aiven to ified local resident Laborers who have redi on the out-of-work list and  
the local of workers will be exhausted in their tum from the list before other workmen are employed.  
5. lovers individuals to retum to work ess of the list they are registered on provided the  
individual has been oved by that over within the ing twelve (12) months.  
G. Realizing that emplovees working under this Agreement acquire certain nights throuch experience in the indust  
and ire health and welfare benefits for themselves and their families, it is that selection of icants for  
referral will be on the following basis:  
28  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
GROUP A: _ Effective January 1, 2003, Group A shall consist of:  
All Laborers who have previously qualified for Group A list status under the terms of this Agreement.  
Laborers who have succ completed the Apprenticeshi which consists of 320 hours of  
and 4000 hours of covered O it or Laborers that reat in the A ticeshi after June 1  
2012 who have successfully completed the Apprenticeshit which consists of four hundred ei 480  
hours of training and six thousand (6000) hours of covered O t.  
Laborers who have been rated by the New Entrant Assessment (NEA as ]O Level Construction  
Craft Laborers.  
Laborers who have worked at least 6000 hours under the terms of an agreement with a District Council as herein  
defined and have achieved a score at alevel established by the NEA on the “Knowl Assessment”  
rtion of the assessment ora “Classification Specific Knowl Assessment” that is approved by the T  
Trust.  
All other Laborers who have worked at least 6000 hours under the terms of an agreement with a District Council  
will for Group A list status only in the classification(s) for which have demonstrated proficien  
through ahistory of employment.  
GROUP B: _ Effective January 1, 2003, Group B shall consist of:  
         
Individuals who are with and have been ified by the subcommittee and are si toa  
mt with the JATC. Such individuals shall register at the trai office with the subcommittee.  
The area JATC shall determine the number of individuals accepted into the new entrant training program upon the  
recommendation of the subcommittee.  
Individuals that do not successfully complete their apprenticeship will be denied use of all hiring halls within this  
District Council for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of their termination from the Program. Hours  
worked during their apprenticeship will not count toward any list status.  
GROUP C: Effective January 1, 2003, Group C shall consist of:  
All Laborers who have previously qualified for Group C status under the terms of this Agreement.  
Laborers who have worked at least 200 hours under the terms of an agreement with this District Council.  
GROUP D: — All other individuals who are seeki O tt and who are physically fit. individual who  
has previously failed to or complete the Pre-Construction ‘Training (PCT) shall not be eligible to red on  
the D list.  
The Hinng Hall shall make up and the roster for preference of rehire ing all icants who come within  
the above classifications and shall utilize the health and welfare and pension records in establishing these accrued nights  
based on | of O t. Each icant for emplo Shall be ired to fumish such records, names of  
overs and | of O tt and licenses as be deemed n and each icant shall complete such  
forms or redi ion as be submitted to him. Applicants for O t shall also list ial skills as thi  
### POSSESS.  
1. Referral of Applicants:  
Applicants shall be referred from Group A, as ified, in successive order as their names on the out-of-work list.  
See Schedule “C” Hiring Hall 1). This provision will to Group A red only. When Group A has been  
exhausted:  
29  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
Dispatching of Group B Apprentices shall bein successive order as registered_on the out-of-work list. When Group B has  
been exhausted:  
   
Applicants shall be referred from Group C, as ified, in successive order as their names on the out-of-work list.  
When Group C has been exhausted:  
Di ing of Group D req ts shall be in successive order as reqi on the out-of-work list.  
2. lo er who violates the hi visions of this Agreement be denied further use of apprentices or  
erential of Group A ts.  
a violation of the hinng hall provisions shall be determined joint hinng hall committee  
sed of an number of representatives of the ies Si to this A  
3. When a red tt has been terminated as unsatisfactory or has been disc for  
cause by at least three (3 oyers within (24) month period, he/she be denied further ‘use of all  
ing halls covered by the District Council provided the Overs have fumished the Distict Council in waiting the  
reasons for such terminations or disc . Co aints con the ications of this procedure will be submitted in  
the for work within ten 10) wo S of denial of hiring hall privil and will be referred to a  
joint Committee composed of resentatives of the parties si to the A it. for a decision.  
   
4, If said layoffs or disc are for the lack of ni skills to perfomm assi ed duties additional will be  
   
hall pnivil and will be referred to a joint committee composed of resentatives of the ies Si to the  
Agreement for a decision.  
When a registrant has been terminated for failure to pass a substance abuse test, the individual shall be registered on the  
bottom of the appropnate out-of-work list for which he/she ifies. Should the rea be tenninated a second time  
for failure to a Substance abuse test, the regi Shall be denied use of all hiring hall facilities within the area of the  
District Council until he/she has suc State Certified alcohol or has been released  
State Certified Counselor, for employment while co ing the Continued use of the hiring hall  
facilities will d nthe individual ining free of all prohibited substances as defined in the AGC-Labor  
   
Substance Abuse Program.  
### APPENDIX 5  
### HIRING OF APPRENTICES  
SECTION 1. overs Si to this mt only employ Laborer apprentices registered through the  
Northwest Laborers- overs Training ‘Trust.  
SECTION 2. Apprentices: The employment of apprentices shall be in accordance with the following ratios per job:  
A. An Employer employing one or more Joumey-level Laborers may employ apprentices per the below  
Apprentice Ratio Chart. This is to be interpreted as perjob. Each Contractor or contract is separate with their  
own ratios on the job.  
30  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
### APPRENTICE RATIO CHART  
   
  
6  
a  
a  
  
  
ae  
a ae  
po  
|  
Sequential pattem would continue for remaining numbers.  
NOTE: Employers may lose their training agent status with the State of Washington if they are found to be in violation of  
the established ratios.  
who are signatory to this collective bargaining agreement are recognized as being an "Approved Training  
per Washington State D mt of Labor and Industiies A: ticeshi idelines.  
B. The apprentice to Joumey-level ratios established above may be altered on a project by project basis under the  
guidelines set forth by the Northwest Laborers JATC and depending on the availability of current apprentices.  
C. The apprentice to Joumey-level worker shall never exceed aone to one (1:1) ratio.  
D. The above ratios are subject to the availability of current apprentices.  
E. The proper ratio of joumeymen to apprentices will be maintained when reducing the work force and when  
transfering employees from project to project.  
F, When performing overtime or emergency work, Joumeyman Laborers will be given preference.  
31  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
Work Defined: By asingle crew or on acrew by crew basis, and not to the job as a whole.  
G. When Employers wish to transfer apprentices from one project to another resulting in the need to transfer  
from one local union to another covered by this Agreement, they must have pennission of both local JETC  
subcommittees.  
Note: Apprentices may not be transferred outside the area of the subcommittee’s jurisdiction except when  
done in accordance with this subsection 1 G.  
H. At no time will apprentices’ wage rates exceed those of journeyman for the same classification of work.  
I. Apprentices shall be indentured in accordance with the Northwest Laborers Apprenticeship Committee  
Standards of Apprenticeship.  
J. When an apprentice is required to attend training necessary for maintaining and/or upgrading his/her status in  
the apprenticeship program, and such training necessitates the absence of the apprentice from a job, the  
Employer shall grant the apprentice leave from the job to satisfy the training requirement and restore his/her  
Status on the job when the training is completed, provided a position is available. Apprentices retuming from  
training shall be given preference for employment.  
### APPENDIX 6  
### OPERATION OF LOCAL UNION HIRING HALLS  
SECTION 1. In order to maintain employment and preserve workable labor relations, as well as to insure  
accomplishment of private and public work, the following shall prevail:  
A. Itis recognized within the construction industry that the Union and the Employer have jointly developed a pool of  
qualified and safety trained workers.  
B. The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative of employees  
over whom the Union has jurisdiction.  
C. The recruitment of employees shall be the responsibility of the Union and its Local Unions will maintain offices  
or other designated facilities for the convenience of the Employer and for job applicants.  
D. Selection and referral of applicants for jobs shall be on a non-discriminatory basis and shall in no way be affected  
by race, color, age, sex, orcreed, nor by Union membership, bylaws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions,  
or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership, policies or requirements.  
FE. Realizing that employees working under this Agreement acquire certain nights through experience in the industry  
and acquire Health and Welfare benefits for themselves and their families, it is agreed that selection of applicants  
for referral will be on the following basis:  
The Union shall maintain a list of applicants in the Union office or designated point, who are out of work and  
available for employment.  
Registration and referral of applicants shall be on a non-discriminatory basis without regard to race, color, sex,  
age or creed or to membership or non-membership in the Union and shall be in accordance with the following  
plan. The Union shall register all applicants for employment on the basis of the Groups listed below. Each  
applicant shall be registered in the highest priority Groups for which he/she is qualified.  
32  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
### GROUP A  
Effective January 1, 2003, Group A shall consist of:  
All Laborers who have previously qualified for Group A list status under the terms of this Agreement.  
Laborers who have successfully completed the Apprenticeship program, which consists of three hundred twenty  
(320) hours of training and four thousand (4000) hours of covered employment or Laborers who registered in the  
Apprenticeship program after June 1, 2012 who have successfully completed the Apprenticeship program which  
consists of four hundred eighty (480) hours of training and six thousand (6000) hours of covered employment.  
Laborers who have been rated by the New Entrant Assessment (NEA) process as Joumey Level Construction  
Craft Laborers.  
Laborers who have worked at least four thousand (4000) hours under the terms of an agreement with a District  
Council as herein defined and have achieved a passing score at established by the NEA on the “Knowledge  
Assessment” portion of the assessment ora “Classification Specific Knowledge Assessment” that is approved by  
the Training Trust.  
All other Laborers who have worked at least four thousand (4000) hours under the terms of an agreement with a  
District Council will qualify for Group A list status only in the classification(s) for which they have demonstrated  
proficiency through a history of employment.  
### GROUP B  
Effective January 1, 2003, Group B shall consist of:  
Individuals who are registered with and have been qualified by the JET'C subcommittee and are signatory toa  
training agreement with the Joint Apprenticeship Traming Committee. Such individuals shall register at the  
Traming Office with the subcommittee. The Area JATC shall determine the number of individuals accepted into  
the new entrant training program upon the recommendation of the subcommittee.  
Individuals who do not successfully complete their apprenticeship will be denied use of all hiring halls within this  
District Council for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of their termination from the Program. Hours  
worked. during their apprenticeship will not count towards any list status.  
If at any time, the indenturing of Apprentices causes the Training Trust to be out of compliance with Affirmative  
Action requirements in any Local Union area, the Training Trust will indenture additional Apprentices from their  
pool of eligible individuals, at the earliest opportunity, to get the Local Union area back into compliance.  
### GROUP C  
Effective January 1, 2003, Group C shall consist of:  
All Laborers who have previously qualified for Group C list status under the terms of this Agreement.  
Laborers who have worked at least two hundred (200) hours under the of an agreement with this District  
Council.  
### GROUP D  
All other individuals who are seeking employment and who are physically fit. Any individual who has previously failed  
to pass or complete the Pre-Construction Training (PCT) shall not be eligible to register on the “D” list.  
33  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
F. The Hiring Hall shall make up and prepare the roster for preference of rehire by grouping all applicants who come  
within the above classifications and shall utilize the Health and Welfare and Pension records and/or check stubs in  
establishing these accrued rights based on length of employment. The registrant shall have the burden of proving  
his past experience and skills to the hiring hall.  
G. Seattle/Everett Metropolitan Area: In order to have applicants available and ready for work in the densely  
populated Seattle/Everett Metropolitan area, the Locals in that area shall give preference to those applicants  
present at the hiring hall during the Local’s established dispatch hours. Any dispatching done outside of the  
Local’s established dispatching hours will be done by telephone.  
H. Definition of Employer: “Employer” under this Article means, (1) any Employer party to the Agreement, or (2)  
any Employer who employs Laborers under the terms of this Agreement and is acontnbuting employer within the  
meaning of the Health and Welfare and Pension Plans.  
I. Referral of Laborers: Laborers shall be referred from Group A, as qualified, in successive order as their names  
appear on the out-of-work list. When Group A has been exhausted:  
Dispatching of Group B apprentices shall be in successive order as registered on the out-of-work list. When  
Group B has been exhausted:  
Laborers shall be referred from Group C, as qualified, in successive order as their names appear on the out-of-  
work list. When Group C has been exhausted:  
Dispatching of Group D registrants shall be by qualification in successive order as registered on the out-of-work  
list.  
J. When an applicant is referred for employment and is actually employed on a specified short-term job, such  
applicant’s position shall not be changed on the out-of-work list. If a registrant, upon being referred for  
employment in regular order, refused to accept employment for which he/she is qualified, or voluntarily quits  
such employment prior to completion of the job, or is fired for cause, such registrant’s name shall be placed at the  
bottom of the Group out-of-work list on which he/she is registered.  
K. Itshall not bea violation of this Agreement for the Hiring Hall dispatching officer to refer Laborers to ajob  
which is located outside of a metropolitan area whose residence is in close proximity to that job even though their  
priority on the out-of-work list may not be as great as some other Laborers living at a greater distance.  
L. There shall be no discrimination by the Employer or the Local Union, with respect to recruitment, referral, hiring,  
tenure or discharge of any applicant or worker and any requirement as to membership or non-membership in any  
Union shall be in accordance with the National Labor Relations Act of 1947 as amended.  
M. There shall be no discrimination by the Employer or the Local Union, with respect to recruitment, referral, hiring,  
tenure or discharge of any applicant or worker because of race, color, sex, age or creed and both the Employer and  
the Local Union agree to abide by Presidential Orders, Federal Laws or State Laws providing for non-  
discrimination in employment.  
N. Itis the intent of the Employer and of the Union by these procedures to fully comply with the National Labor  
Relations Act of 1947 as amended and the regulations and criteria of the National Labor Relations Board.  
O. The Union and each Local Union shall post in their main offices all provisions relating to the referral and hiring  
provisions of this Agreement.  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF this Agreement has been executed by the Washington and Northem Idaho District Council of  
Laborers and its Local Unions party hereto, and the AGC of Washington, a Chapter of the Associated General Contractors  
of America, Inc., on behalf of certain individual members who have authorized the Chapter to execute the Agreement on  
their behalf.  
### FOR ‘THE EMPLOY ERS:  
Dave Ratzke  
Co-Chair Laborers Bargaining  
AGC of Washington  
Date  
Brandon Dully  
Co-Chair Laborers Bargaining  
AGC of Washington  
Date  
### LABORERS  
### FOR THE WASHINGTON AND NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS:  
Don McLeod Jr., Business Manager/Secretary  
Negotiating Committee Chair  
Date  
35  
2015 - 2018  
### WESTERN/CENTRAL WASHINGTON LOCALS  
Everett #292  
2810 Lombard Ave. Suite #100  
WA 98201  
Bellingham Sub-Office  
Mt. Vemon Sub-Office  
Seattle #242  
2800 Ave., Rm #50  
Seattle, WA 98121  
Seattle #440  
565-13 Ave.  
Seattle, WA 98122  
Tacoma #252  
4803 S. “M” St.  
Tacoma, WA 98408  
Aberdeen Sub-Office  
Silverdale Sub-Office  
Olympia Sub-Office  
Port Angeles Sub-Office  
Richland #348  
2905 Duportail St.  
Richland, WA 99352  
Y akima Sub-Office  
### LABORERS  
(206) 259-5077  
(206) 252-3062  
(360) 733-0900  
(360) 733-0089  
(360) 336-6159  
(360) 336-3234  
(206) 441-0481  
(206) 728-8756  
(206) 329-1540  
(206) 329-0156  
(253) 383-1493  
### PAX  
### PAX  
### FAX  
### PAX  
### PAX  
(253) 597-4980 FAX  
(360) 533-5658  
(360) 533-5663  
(360) 613-4073  
(360) 692-2759  
(360) 357-6460  
(360) 357-9900  
(360) 457-6929  
(360) 417-1545  
(509) 452-4332  
(509) 452-4337  
(509) 452-4332  
(509) 452-4332  
36  
### FAX  
### PAX  
### PAX  
### PAX  
### PAX  
### PAX  
2015 - 2018  
### WASHINGTON & NORTHERN IDAHO DISTRICT COUNCILOF LABORERS  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### FOR  
### PRIVATE SECTOR WORK  
THIS MEMORANDUM, effective the first day of June, 2012, by and between the WASHINGTON & NORTHERN  
IDAHO DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS, hereinafter referred to as the “Union” and the undersigned Employer,  
hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”.  
1.  
Competitive Conditions: The parties listed below agree that this Memorandum of Understanding for Private  
Sector Work is provided for the purpose of giving the signatory contractor the opportunity to be competitive in  
negotiating and bidding in the private sector limited to the scope listed in paragraph 4 below.  
Adoption of Master Labor Agreement: The parties agree to be bound by, to adopt and incorporate all of the terms  
and conditions of the Master Labor Agreement, except as provided in the Memorandum of Understanding.  
Notification: ‘The Employer shall notify the affected Local Union when work is to be performed under this  
Memorandum prior to starting work. Failure to notify the Union will result in the payment of 100% wage rates  
until the Union is properly notified in waiting.  
Coverage: This Memorandum shall cover all privately funded projects whose value is $5.0 million or less  
(excluding electrical on civil work, i.e., signals and traffic lighting).  
Fringe Benefits: Fringe Benefits shall be 100% of those listed in the Master Labor Agreement during the terms of  
this Agreement.  
Wage Rates: The wage rates covered by this Understanding shall be equal to ninety percent (90%) of the wage  
rates established in the Westem Washington area for those projects whose value is from $3 million up to $5  
million and eighty-five percent (85%) of the wage rates established in the Westem Washington area for those  
projects who value is $3 million or less and eighty-five percent (85%) of the wage rates established in the Central  
Washington area for those projects whose value is $5 million or less.  
Working With Other Crafts. The Employer and Union agree that when the Laborers are working on the same  
payroll as another craft that are receiving a higher percentage scale, then those Laborers will also receive the  
higher percentage scale. This Memorandum will in no way affect the provisions of Article 22 of the Master  
### Labor Agreement.  
It is expressly agreed by the parties hereto that this Memorandum is not intended to circumvent the wage rates set forth in  
the Master Labor Agreement through artificial staging orphasing of projects for the sole purpose of applying the limits  
Stated herein.  
### FOR THE UNION: POR ‘THE EMPLOY ER:  
### WASHINGTON & NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
Name of Contractor  
Address of Contractor  
By By _  
Don McLeod Jr., Business Manager/Secretary Pnnt Name  
Date Date  
37  
LABORERS 2015 - 2018