K 5649  
6,090  
= s/31/07  
2003-2007 AGREEMENT pet  
Between  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF WASHINGTON  
and  
### WASHINGTON AND NORTHERN IDAHO  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
### PREAMBLE  
. This Agreement is a successive principal Agreement of the 1997-2002 Agreement, further  
extended to May 31, 2003, and all other prior Agreements thereto by and between the Associated  
General Contractors of Washington, a Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.,  
and the Washington and Northern Idaho District Council of Laborers.  
For purposes of this Agreement, the AGC of Washington is not acting as a  
bargaining agent in a single multtemployer unit, but is acting for and on behalf of Employers who have  
individually requested the AGC of Washington to act as their individual and separate bargaining agent in  
individual Employer units. Further, each individual principal member reserves the right to review and  
accept or reject any proposed Agreement negotiated between the Union and the AGC of Washington  
acting as an agent for the individual contractor members.  
This is a collective bargaining Agreement between certain individual members of the Associated  
General Contractors of Washington, a Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.  
(hereinafter referred to as he "Employer"), and Washington and Northern Idaho District Council of  
Laborers (hereinafter referred to as the "Union”), and shall constitute an Agreement between the parties  
hereto for the work, conditions and wage rates provided for herein in the territory of Western and  
Central Washington.  
### ARTICLE 1  
### PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT  
SECTION 1. The purpose of this Agreement is to promote the settlement of labor disagreement by  
conference, to prevent strikes and lockouts and to stabilize wages and working conditions in building,  
heavy highway construction and engineering work in the area affected.  
SECTION 2. Bylaws of either party are not part of this Agreement. It is agreed and understood  
between the parties hereto that this Agreement contains all the covenants, stipulations and provisions  
agreed upon by the parties hereto. No agent or representative of either party has authority to make any  
promise, inducement or agreement contrary to the provisions herein.  
2003-2007 1 LABORERS  
   
SECTION 3. The Employer hereby voluntarily recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent  
of all employees performing bargaining unit work covered by this Agreement, and agrees that a majority  
of those employees have designated the Union as their collective bargaining representative.  
SECTION 4. The Union recognizes the AGC of Washington as the exclusive individual bargaining  
agent for each Employer who has authorized the AGC of Washington to negotiate individually with the  
Union on its behalf.  
### ARTICLE Z  
### WORK AFFECTED  
SECTION 1. This Agreement shall cover all Highway, Building, Heavy Construction and Engineering  
projects including the loading and unloading of barges or other carriers of the Employer's materials and  
equipment at loading facilities for the contractor's work performed by Employer parties to this  
Agreement in the outlined in Article 3, Section 1.  
SECTION 2. For clarification, Heavy, Highway and Engineering projects are defined as follows:  
construction of railroads, street railways, roads, highways, streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs and gutters,  
paving (portland cement or asphaltic concrete), airports, bridges, overpasses, sewers, water mains,  
sanitation projects, imigation projects, flood control projects, reclamation projects, reservoirs, dams,  
dikes, levees, revetments, channels, aqueducts, channel cutoffs, jetties, breakwaters, harbor  
developments, docks, dry docks, piers, abutments, retaining walls, transmission lines, duct lines,  
subways, shafts, tunnels, excavation of earth and rock, power generating projects, reinforced  
earthwork, and all other heavy construction and engineering operations in connection therewith, and all  
site clearing, demolition work, pipeline and refinery work when covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. For further clarification, the term "Building" shall mean a building structure, including  
modifications thereof, or additions or repairs thereto, intended for use for shelter, protection, comfort  
and convenience.  
SECTION 4. Asbestos/Toxic Waste: This Agreement shall also cover all work in connection with the  
handling, control, removal, abatement, encapsulation or disposal of asbestos, lead, mold and/or toxic  
waste.  
### ARTICLE 3  
### TERRITORY OF AGREEMENT  
SECTION 1. This Agreement shall cover all construction work in the following counties: Whatcom,  
Skagit, Snohomish, King, Pierce, Thurston, Lewis, that portion of Pacific County north of a straight line  
made by extending the north boundary of Wahkiakum County west to the Pacific Ocean, Grays  
Harbor, Clallam, Jefferson, Mason, Kitsap, Island, San Juan, Chelan, Kittitas, Yakima and that portion  
of Douglas County lying west of the 120° meridian.  
LABORERS | 2 2003-2007  
SECTION 2. Attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement is Appendix 4 which contains any  
differences in wages, travel or working conditions for the Central Washington area.  
### ARTICLE 4  
### EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION  
SECTION 1. This Agreement shall be effective commencing June 1, 2003, and shall continue in force  
and effect through May 31, 2007. Upon its expiration, this Agreement shall continue from year to year,  
June 1 through May 31 of each year, ‘by automatic renewal unless changed, or superceded by a  
successor principal agreement, or terminated. For the purpose of negotiating alterations in wages and  
other terms and conditions of employment, either party may open this Agreement or any contract  
effectuated through automatic renewal by giving wnitten "Notice of Opening" not later than sixty (60) nor  
more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date. "Notice of Opening" is in no way intended by  
the parties as a termination of, nor shall it in any way be constmed as a termination of this Agreement or  
any annual contract effectuated through automatic renewal nor as forestalling automatic renewal as  
herein provided. The parties reserve the right to economic recourse in negotiations, except during the  
interval between the giving of "Notice of Opening" and the expiration date.  
SECTION 2. Except by mutual written agreement, termination of this Agreement or any annual  
contract effectuated through automatic renewal, must to ihe exclusion of ali other methods, be perfected  
by giving written “Notice of Termination" not later than sixty (60) nor more than ninety (90) days prior  
to the expiration date, whereupon the contract shall, on its expiration date, terminate. Effective  
termination eliminates automatic renewal.  
SECTION 3. Any “Notice of Opening” or "Notice of Termination" given in hand within sixty (60) days  
of any expiration date shall be absolutely null and void and completely ineffective for all purposes.  
### , ARTICLES  
### UNION SECURITY  
SECTION 1. The employees shall become and remain members of the Union as a condition of  
employment from the seventh but not later than the eighth day of employment, or the effective date of  
this Agreement, whichever is later.  
SECTION 2. It is further agreed that all Union members employed by the Employer shall maintain  
their membership in good standing in the Union.  
SECTION 3. Failure of any employee to pay or tender normal initiation fees or dues as required by  
this Agreement shall, upon the request of the Union in result in the termination of such employee  
within two (2) working days, provided a replacement is available.  
2003-2007 3 LABORERS  
### ARTICLE 6  
### UNION RECOGNITION AND HIRING PROCEDURES  
SECTION 1. The Employer will call upon the Local Union in whose territory the work is to be  
accomplished to refer qualified applicants for work in the classifications herein contained. In requesting  
applicants for work, the Employer shall notify the Local Union office either in writing or by telephone,  
stating the location, starting time, type of shift schedule (i.e., 5 days at 8 hours or 4 days at 10 hours),  
approximate duration of the job, the type of work to be performed and the number of employees  
required.  
A. All qualified applicants referred for work to an Employer shall provide to the Employer  
when reporting for work two pieces of identification, one of which has a picture of the  
applicant.  
B. All qualified applicants shall complete and sign W-4 and 9 forms as requested by the  
Employer.  
C. An applicant who fails or refuses to submit this information or who provides false  
information when referred to an Employer shall be registered on the bottom of the  
appropriate out-of-work list for which the applicant qualifies.  
Pr  
D. An applicant who, upon a subsequent referral to an Employer, fails or refuses to submit this  
information, shall be dented use of all hiring facilities within the area of this District Council  
unless the applicant enters into a written agreement that the applicant will submit the  
information to Employers.  
SECTION 2. When the Employer has placed a verbal or written order for referral of workers from  
the Local Union and should a shortage of applicants exist and they cannot be supplied by the Local  
Union within twenty-four (24) hours from the time workers ordered are required to report to the job,  
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded, the Employer may then seek applicants from other sources.  
When an Employer so hires employees from sources other than the Local Union, the Employer shall  
notify the Union, giving the names and addresses and classifications of the employees hired within five  
(5) days of the date of employment.  
SECTION 3. The Employer shall have the nght to reject any job applicant, but the applicant and the  
Local Union shal] be entitled to the reason for such rejection in writing.  
SECTION 4. Whenever an employee is discharged for cause, including failure to pass a substance  
abuse test, not able to perform the assigned work due to lack of skills or as unsatisfactory, the  
Employer agrees to send a termination notice, within fifteen (15) working days to the Union, stating the  
reasons for termination. lf no notice of cause is provided, the individual shall be eligible for rehire  
without exception.  
LABORERS 4 2003-2007  
SECTION 5.1 General Termination: When a registrant has been terminated as unsatisfactory or has  
been discharged for cause by at least three (3) Employers within a twenty-four (24) month period,  
he/she shall be dented further use of all hiring halls covered by the District Council provided the  
Employers have furnished the Local Unions in writing the reasons for such terminations or discharges.  
Members wishing to demonstrate that corrective action has been taken by them, and therefore should  
be allowed access to the hiring hall facilities, may petition the District Council’s Executive Board for an  
opportunity to appear and give their position.  
SECTION 5.2 Skills Termination: When a registrant has been terminated for lack of possessing the  
necessary skills to perform assigned duties, by at least three (3) Employers within a twenty-four (24)  
month period, satisfactory completion of additional traming will be required before hiring hall privileges  
are restored in the classification in question.  
SECTION 5.3 Substance Abuse Termination: The following provision applies only to those  
Employers using the AGC-Labor Substance Abuse Program or one that has been jointly negotiated  
with the Union. In order to protect the privacy of all employees, termination notices for failure of the  
drug test must be sent “Personal and Confidential” to:  
Business Manager  
### VWla DOD. KT  
vy GSP OC INOI Tdanu  
District Council of Laborers  
P.O. Box 12917  
Mill Creek, Washington 98082-0917  
When a registrant has been terminated, and/or is deemed ineligible for rehire, for failure to pass  
a substance abuse test, the individual shall be registered on the bottom of the appropriate out-of-work  
list for which he/she qualifies. Should the registrant be terminated a second time within a twenty-four  
(24) month period for failure to pass a substance abuse test, the registrant shall be denied use of all  
hiring within the area of the District Council until he/she has successfully completed a State  
certified drug/alcohol program or has been released for employment purposes by a State certified  
- counselor, and continues to remain free of all prohibited substances as defined in the AGC-Labor  
Substance Abuse Program.  
SECTION 6. Where Employers engage in a joint venture, individuals employed by a member  
company of the joint venture may be transferred to the job or called for by name by said member  
company of the joint venture within the territory covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 7. The referral procedure as contained herein shall be followed except:  
Requests by the Employer for key personnel to act as supervisors or foremen shall be honored  
without regard to the requested employee's place on the out-of-work list. To qualify _for a request  
under this Section, the employee must actually perform the duties of the position requested.  
2003-2007 5 | LABORERS  
Bonafide requests will be honored for individuals previously employed by the Employer when  
requested by name and whose name appears on the out-of-work list and who have been legally  
employed by the Employer in the area of the jurisdiction of the Local Union.  
Note: Any individual who was previously hired illegally or improperly by the Employer, may not  
seek priority of dispatch under this Section.  
The Employer may bring three (3) present employees at his discretion into the geographic  
jurisdiction of the Local Union for each job. In such cases, the Employer transferring such employees  
from one local jurisdiction into another Local Union jurisdiction shall be required to check in and receive  
clearance from the Local Union having jurisdiction over the project. Failure to comply with this  
provision may be grounds for the Union to request termination of said employees.  
Additionally, the Employer may request by name, regardless of their respective position in  
Group A, one (1) individual for each three (3) Laborers hired. (Exception for Central Washington only:  
one (1) individual for each one (1) Laborer hired.) The provision will apply to Group A registrants  
only.  
When the Employer has placed an order for employees requiring special skills or of special  
classification, applicants possessing the qualifications of the job will be referred in the order in which  
their names appear on Group A, C or D of the out-of-work list.  
SECTION 8. College students: College students seeking employment during the period of May 1st  
through October Ist shall register on the Local Union's out-of-work list by personal call or in writing.  
An Employer (owner) desiring to hire such students shall notify the Local Union of such desire and the  
student shall not be employed until such registration has been complied with.  
When a student is called for by name, he will be referred to the Employer without regard to his  
place on the out-of-work list. But, such request for college students shall be allowed on the ratio of one  
(1) for the first five (5) Laborers employed up to a total of three (3) students on any one job. However,  
this ratio may be waived by mutual agreement of the Union and the Employer.  
A college student must demonstrate that he has been accepted as a full time student and is  
currently registered in school with no less than twelve (12) credited hours of instruction.  
SECTION 9. Apprentices: The employment of apprentices shall be in accordance with the following  
ratios per job: ;  
A. Apprentices may be hired in the ratio of one (1) apprentice for the first five (5) Laborers  
employed. After five (5) Laborers have been employed, one (1) apprentice shall be  
hired for each additional five (5) Journeyman Laborers employed.  
   
NOTE: Apprentices may not be transferred outside the area of the subcommittee's  
jurisdiction except when done in accordance with subsection 9 D.  
LABORERS 6 2003-2007  
B. When performing overtime or emergency work, joumeyman Laborers will be given  
preference.  
WORK DEFINED: _ By a single crew or on a crew by crew basis, and not to the  
job as a whole.  
C. The above ratio is subject to the availability of apprentices.  
D. When Employers wish to transfer apprentices from one project to another resulting in  
the need to transfer from one local union to another covered by this Agreement, they  
must have permission of both local JETC subcommittees.  
E. At no time will apprentices’ wage rates exceed those of journeyman for the same  
classification of work.  
F, If at any time a contractor requests that a named individual be indentured into the  
Apprenticeship program, that individual must first have been evaluated by the new  
entrant assessment program and passed the Pre-Construction Training (PCT) course.  
G. On jobs requiring special skills, the Employer by mutual agreement with the Local  
Business Kepresentative, may waive the above apprentice ratio, on a job by job basis.  
H. When _ an apprentice is required to attend training necessary for maintaining and/or  
upgrading his/her status in the apprenticeship program, and such training necessitates the  
absence of the apprentice from_a job, the Employer shall grant the apprentice leave  
from the job to satisfy the training requirement and restore his/her status on the job  
when the training is completed, provided a position is available.  
### ARTICLE 7  
### SUBCONTRACTORS  
SECTION 1. The Employer agrees it will not subcontract or otherwise transfer in whole or in part any  
work covered by this Agreement to be done at the site of the construction, alteration, painting or repair  
of a building, structure, or other work unless the person, firm, corporation or other business entity is  
signatory to this Agreement. The Employer agrees that a member of the Union will be employed by the  
Employer or any contractor or subcontractor at the job site if there is work to be done coming under  
the jurisdiction of the Union Agreement. The Union agrees that it will not take strike action to enforce  
this Article. In the event of any change in the present law, this clause will be re-negotiated.  
SECTION 2. Whenever the Employer is obligated to satisfy MBE/WBE/DBE recruiting requirements,  
the Union and the Employer by mutual agreement may waive this provision prior to commencement of  
the work in the event an the Employer and Union are unable to find qualified competitive Union  
MBE/WBE/DBE subcontractors.  
2003-2007 | 7 LABORERS .  
SECTION 3. When potential union subcontractors are not available in the locality of the job site to  
perform the work and where the general contractor receives no competitive union bids, by mutual  
agreement, the Employer and the Union may waive this provision. Provided, however, the Union and  
the Employer shall review the prices submitted before assigning the non-union subcontractor.  
SECTION 4. When the landscaping portion of a project is under two hundred fifty thousand dollars  
250,000) in value the Employer may waive this provision. For the se of this Sectio  
landscaping shall be as currently defined in WAC 296-127-01346.  
### ARTICLE 8  
### HOLIDAYS  
SECTION 1. Holidays recognized by this Agreement shail be New Year's Day, Memorial Day (last  
Monday in May), Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday and Saturday after  
Thanksgiving Day and Chnstmas Day. Any holiday which falls on a Sunday shall be observed as a  
holiday on the following Monday. A holiday shall be a twenty-four (24) hour period, beginning with the  
regular starting time of the first shift on the date of the holiday, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by  
the Employers and the Union. No work shall be performed on Labor Day except to protect life and  
property or by mutual agreement of the Union and the Employer. If any of the listed holidays fails on a  
Saturday, the preceding Friday shali be a regular work day.  
### ARTICLE 9  
### LUNCH PROVISIONS  
SECTION 1. Employees shail not be required to work more than five (5) hours from the start of the  
‘shift without at least a one-half (“%) hour break for lunch. This lunch period shall not begin earlier than  
three and one-half (3) hours after the start of the shift. If they are required to work past five (5)  
hours, one-half (1/2) hour at the applicable overtime rate shall be added to the hours worked and they  
must then be allowed time to eat their lunch. If not allowed to eat lunch, employees will be paid an  
additional one-half hour of overtime.  
SECTION 2. Employees required to work more than two (2) hours after the end of the regular shift  
shall be allowed at least one-half (2) hour meal period which shall be considered as time worked, and if  
it is impractical for the employees to leave the job, they shall be provided a lunch by the Employer. If  
not given the one-half (1/2) hour meal period, one-half (1/2) hour at the applicable overtime rate shall  
be added to the hours worked. In the event that the Employer establishes a ten (10) hour day, the first  
lunch period shall be at mid-shift. Employees' lunch period may be staggered during the period of three  
and one-half (3%) to five (5) hours from the start of the shift to cover necessary work of a continuous  
nature.  
LABORERS 8 2003-2007  
### ARTICLE 10  
### PAY DAY  
SECTION 1. Employees shall be paid in full once each week (on the same day), but in no event shall  
more than five (5) days' (Saturday, Sunday and holidays excluded) wages be withheld.  
If the regular payday falls on a holiday, the employees shall be paid on the last regular work day  
before the holiday.  
The Empl over will have the following options of making payment: negotiable check made on  
   
election of employee; or by mail, at election of employee, in writing. If paid by mail, the check shall be  
postmarked not later than two (2) business days prior to the established payday.  
No employee shall be discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced, transferred or have any other  
verse action taken against hiner for refusmy io use the direct payroil deposit or mail option.  
     
   
   
    
   
   
   
    
    
aA  
aay  
The Employer shall furnish to each employee, at the time of payment of wages, an itemized  
statement showing the pay basis (i.e., hours or days worked), rate or rates of pa SS wages and all  
deductions from that pay period. In addition, the name, address and phone number of the Employer  
shall be indicated.  
      
No adjustment of disputed pay will be made unless the employee or the Union shall make a  
claim in writing to the Employer’s representative within fifteen (15) days from the pay period in question.  
SECTION 2. Employees who quit shall be paid not later than the next regular pay period.  
SECTION 3. Employees who are laid off or discharged shall be paid not later than the end of the next  
regular business day.  
SECTION 4.__ If the payment is not made expressly as provided in this Article, then the employee shall  
be paid two (2) hours pay at the appropriate hourly wage rate for each twenty-four (24) hour period  
thereafter until payment is made. In the case of payment by mail, the postmark on the envelope will  
serve as the cutoff date for any penalty.  
### ARTICLE 11  
### UNION REPRESENTATIVE  
SECTION 1. Authorized representatives of the Union shall have access to the projects provided they  
do not unduly interfere with the work of employees, and that they fully comply with the safety and  
2003-2007 9 LABORERS  
security procedures established for the project. On projects with restricted access, the Employer will  
cooperate with the Union officials in this regard as far as regulations permit.  
SECTION 2. Union representatives will attempt to report to job site supervision prior to entering the  
job site.  
### ARTICLE 12  
### SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
SECTION 1. In cases of violation, misunderstandings or differences in interpretation of this  
Agreement, there shall be no cessation or stoppage of work. Both parties pledge their immediate  
cooperation to elzminate the above mentioned possibilities, and the procedure in Section 2 is outlined for  
_ this purpose.  
SECTION 2. Procedure for Settlement of Disputes:  
Step One: In the event that a dispute arising on the job cannot be satisfactorily adjusted on the job  
between the renresentative of the Union involved and the Employer, the dispute shall promptly (not later  
than fifteen (15) working days), be referred to the authorized representative of the Union and the  
Employer or his authorized representative. Should they fail to effect a settlement, the matter shall  
proceed to Step Two.  
Step Two: The dispute shall be referred to a Board of Conciliation withm fifteen (15) working days.  
This Board shall consist of two (2) persons who have no direct involvement in the dispute,  
appointed by each party. If these four (4) persons cannot effect a settlement within seven (7) days after  
the dispute has been referred to them, the matter shall proceed to Step Three.  
Step Three: By mutual agreement, the issue may be referred to mediation. The parties shall request a  
mediator from the Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service or other mutually acceptable service. This  
person shail serve as the mediator to resolve the dispute. The expense of employing the mediator shall  
be_bome equally by both parties and each party shall be responsible for their own attorney fees and  
costs. Should mediation be waived or the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall proceed to  
Step Four.  
Step Four: _ The parties shall request _a list of seven (7) arbitrators from the Federal Mediation &  
Conciliation Service or other acceptable service and shall alternately strike names until only one name  
remains. This person shall serve as the arbitrator to resolve the dispute. The expense of employing the  
arbitrator shall be borne equally by both parties and each party shall be responsible for their own  
attorney fees and costs.  
Any decision shall be within the scope and terms of this Agreement. It may also provide  
retroactivity not exceeding sixty (60) days and shall state the effective date. Decisions by the Board  
LABORERS 10 2003-2007  
shall be rendered within twenty (20) days or at their discretion after the dispute is referred to them, and  
such decision shall be final and binding upon all parties. By mutual agreement, the aforementioned time  
frames in this Article may be waived or extended.  
### ARTICLE 13  
### SETTLEMENT OF JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
SECTION 1. There will be no strikes, no work stoppages or slowdowns or other interference with  
the work because of jurisdictional disputes.  
SECTION 2. The Employer shall be responsible for all jurisdictional assignments. In issuing such  
assignments, the Employer shall be guided by area practice, decisions of record and jurisdictional  
agreements of record. Craft jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded by classifications appearing  
in any labor agreement.  
SECTION 3. Ifa jurisdictional dispute arises, it shall first be submitted to the local unions involved and  
the affected AGC Chapter for settlement, then if no understanding or agreement is reached within forty-  
eight (48) hours, the parties may refer the dispute to the International Unions with which the disputing  
Unions are affiliated for resolution and the Employer shall abide by the resolution. The disputed work  
shall continue as assigned by the Employer until the dispute has been resolved.  
### ARTICLE 14  
### STRIKES AND PICKET LINES  
SECTION 1, It 1s mutually agreed that there shall be no strikes, lockouts or other slow down or  
cessation of work by either party on account of any labor difference pending the utilization of the  
grievance machinery, as set forth in Article 12.  
SECTION 2. Employees will not be discharged, disciplined or permanently replaced for any  
protected activity related to the recognition of a primary picket line approved by the Union party to this  
Agreement.  
SECTION 3. As required by law, employees shall be furnished to the Employer during labor disputes  
with other construction crafts and the Employer will endeavor to work as long as economically possible  
during these periods.  
### ARTICLE 15  
### SAFETY MEASURES  
SECTION 1. The Employer and the employee will conform to all Federal and State health and safety  
regulations applicable to work covered by this Agreement and shall have adequate shelters available  
2003-2007 11 | LABORERS  
where necessary, with heat, where the employees can change and dry their clothes and store their tools.  
On all projects covered by this Agreement, there shall be provided by the Employer at all times during  
construction, sanitary facilities consisting of a reasonable number of toilets and urinals, on tunnel projects  
separate showers for men and women Fresh drinking water will be available to the employees.  
Employer will furnish all welding, safety and protective equipment required; including, but not limited to,  
leathers, hard hats, eye protection, ear protection, respirators, safety belts and lanyards, reflective vests,  
flagging signs and paddles.  
SECTION 2. This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed as creating, imposing, or  
adopting on the Union or representatives any state duties in the areas of safety.  
### _ ARTICLE 16  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
   
SECTION 1. This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed to permit acts which  
violate any valid Federal or State law.  
SECTION 2. If any provision of this Agreement or the application of such provision shall in any court  
or other Governmental action, be held invalid, the remaining provisions and their application shall not be  
affected thereby. Provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties signatory hereto agree to  
immediately meet to re-negofiate such provisions affected. The parties agree to arrive at a mutually  
satisfactory replacement within sixty (60) days unless a definite extension of time is mutually agreed to.  
In the event that the parties are unable to negotiate a replacement, the matter shall be resolved through  
the provisions of Article 12.  
### ARTICLE 17  
### HOURS OF WORK  
   
### SECTION 1. SINGLE SHIFT OPERATION  
A. Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day's work, five (5) days shall constitute a week's  
work, Monday through Friday.  
B. A single shift operation shall be restricted to the hours between 6:00 A.M. and 6:00  
P.M. and eight (8) hours of continuous employment (except for lunch period) shall constitute a day's  
work Monday through Friday of each week. In the event the job is down due to weather conditions,  
Monday through Friday, then Saturday may, at the option of the Employer, be worked as a voluntary  
make-up day at the straight tume rate. However, Saturday shall not be utilized as a make-up day when  
a holiday falls on Friday.  
C. Four ten (10) hour shifts at the straight time rate may be established on a project either  
Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday. There will be no overlapping of four ten (10)  
hour shifts between crews or other crafts on the same project of the Employer. In the event the job is  
down due to weather conditions, then Friday (when working Monday through Thursday), or Saturday  
LABORERS 12 2003-2007  
(when working Tuesday through Fnday), may, at the option of the Employer, be worked as a voluntary  
make-up day. All hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours a day or forty (40) hours a week must be  
compensated at the overtime rate. However, Saturday shall not be utilized as a make-up day when a  
holiday falls on Friday.  
D. No employee shall be discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced or transferred for  
refusing to work a make-up day.  
E. In the event of a civil emergency such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, floods, or  
fires, starting time of the shift may be made to fit the emergency and eight (8) hours in any twenty-four  
(24) hour period may be worked at straight time. In order to work such shift, mutual agreement shall be  
received.  
F, Special Shifts: When due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer or when  
contract specifications require that work can only be performed outside the regular day shift, then a  
special shift may be worked at the straight time rate. The starting time of work will be arranged to fit  
such conditions of work. Such shift shall consist of eight (8) hours work for eight (8) hours pay or ten  
(10) hours_work for ten (10) hours pay for four ten hour shifts worked in accordance with paragraph  
(c) of this Section.  
G. Holiday Week: In the event that a holiday sc relahentead the wraale  
AP Wess etn GUIing Law WOR  
through Friday), the remaining four days of the week may be worked as four ten hour shifts, as defined  
in paragraph (c) of this Section.  
   
### SECTION 2. MULTIPLE SHIFT OPERATION  
Shifts may be established when considered necessary by the Employer. Shift hours and rates  
will be as follows:  
A, Two (2) Shift Operation: On a two consecutive shift operation, no shift penalty is  
involved for work performed on either of these two shifts. Each shift must be scheduled for at  
least eight (8) hours except as provided for in Section 1 of this Article. On a two shift  
operation, the second shift shall be established for a minimum of three (3) days. The Employer  
shall notify the Local Union prior to the start of a two (2) shift operation.  
Once the starting times are established for the two shift operation, they shall not be  
changed except upon three (3) working days, written notice to the Union.  
B. Three Shift Operation: On a three (3) shift operation, the following shall apply:  
First Shift - The regular hours of work on the first shift of three shift operations shall be eight (8)  
hours of continuous employment, except for lunch period at mid-shift, between the hours of  
6:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.  
2003-2007 13 LABORERS  
Second Shift - The second shift shall be seven and one-half (7-4) hours of continuous  
employment, except for lunch period at mid-shift, and shall be paid eight (8) hours at the straight  
time hourly wage rate.  
Third Shift - The third shift shall consist of seven (7) consecutive hours of employment, except  
for lunch period at mid-shift, and shall be paid eight (8) hours at_the straight time hourly wage  
rate.  
C. Multiple shift {a two or three shift) operation will not be construed on the entire project  
if at any time it is deemed advisable and necessary for the Employer to multiple shifts a specific  
operation. Those groups of employees only who relieve first shift groups of employees and  
such first shift groups of employees who are relieved by groups of employees on a second shift,  
and on a three shift operation those groups of employees who relieve the groups of employees  
on a second shift, shall be construed as working multiple shifts. The intent of this clause shall be  
construed so as to recognize that a "reliever group" and a "relief group" do not necessarily mean  
“employee for employee" relief.  
D. It is understood and agreed that when the first shift of a multiple shift (a two or three  
shift) operation is started at the basic straight time rate or at a specific overtime rate, all shifts of  
that day's operation shall be completed at that rate.  
E. The Employer shall notify the Local Union pnor to the start of a multiple shift (a two or  
three shift).  
### SECTION 3. GENERAL PROVISIONS:  
A. Call Out. When employees have completed their scheduled shift and are "called out" to  
perform special work of a casual, incidental or irregular nature they shall receive premium pay in  
accordance with the proper overtime rates with a minimum guarantee of two (2) hours' pay at the  
employee’s overtime wage rate.  
B. Paving Operations, To take full advantage of weather conditions, starting time of  
operations for the paving of asphalt paving, road oiling and concrete paving will be at the option of the  
Employer. However, standby time will be considered as part of the regular operation and will be paid  
at the regular rate.  
C. Tide Work. When employees are called out between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 6:00  
A.M. to work broken time on tide work, all time worked shall be at time and one-half (1-1/2) the basic  
hourly rate of pay, and a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at the employee’s straight time rate. Except for  
the above, all tide work shall be worked in accordance with provisions of the general Agreement.  
LABORERS 14 2003-2007  
D. Maintenance, Watchperson and Flagger. When no other work is in progress and it is  
necessary to keep a maintenance person, watchperson, or flagger on duty on Saturdays and Sundays,  
they will be paid straight time rates but allowed two (2) regular consecutive days off each week. If  
these employees work more than five (5) consecutive days in any one week, the sixth (6th) day shall be  
paid for at time and one-half (1-1/2) the basic rate and the seventh (7th) day shall be paid for at double  
(2) the basic rate.  
### ARTICLE 18  
### OVERTIME  
Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours of straight time per day, or ten (10) hours  
straight time per day when four ten (10) hours shifts are established, Monday through Friday, or  
ne the normal shift, and all work on Saturdays, except for make-up days, shall be paid at time and  
one-half the straight time rate. All work performed on Sundays and holidays shall be paid at double the  
straight time rate of pay.  
The Employer shall have the sole discretion to assign overtime work to employees. Primary  
consideration for overtime work shail be given to employees regularly assigned to the work to be  
performed on overtime situations.  
a hot ~. L..-1  
additional hemes chall he at the annhrahla overtime rate had a br ak  
### AF ASO beh REY Bh Ae’ MEL  
of eight (8) hours or more.  
                
### ARTICLE 19  
### REPORTING AND MINIMUM HOURS PAY  
SECTION 1. When an employee or new hire reports to work for his regular or assigned shift and  
weather permitting, is not put to work, he shall be paid two (2) hours reporting time and shall remain at  
the job site for the two (2) hours if required by the Employer.  
SECTION 2. Employees who work less than two (2) hours shall be paid two (2) hours; they shall be  
paid a minimum of four (4) hours if required to work more than two (2) hours; they shall be paid a  
minimum of six (6) hours if required to work more than four (4) hours; they shall be paid eight (8) hours  
if required to work more than six (6) hours; and they shall be paid ten (10) hours if required to work  
more than eight (8) hours on a regularly established ten (10) hour shift. Employees who cannot work a  
full shift because of weather conditions shall be paid for actual hours worked.  
SECTION 3. If any employee refuses to start work or if any employee stops work of his own volition,  
the minimums set forth in Section 2 above shall not apply.  
SECTION 4. When employees are called out to work on overtime days and weather permitting, are  
not put to work, they shall receive pay for two (2) hours at the applicable overtime rate of pay. When  
2003-2007 15 LABORERS  
men are put to work on overtime days, they shall be paid the actual time worked at the overtime rate,  
however, the minimum shall be two (2) hours at the overtime rate of pay.  
SECTION 5. When employees, including new hires, reporting for work arrive on the job unprepared  
to perform the work required (for example, under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or inadequately  
clothed), the Employer shall not be expected to put such individuals to work nor shall they be entitled to  
reporting pay if not put to work.  
### ARTICLE 20  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS CLAUSE  
SECTION 1, The Employer retains full and exclusive authority for the management of its operation  
unless otherwise limited by this bargaining Agreement, The Employer shall direct his working forces at  
his sole prerogative including, but not limited to hiring, promotion, transfer, layoff or discharge for just  
cause as traditionally practiced within the Construction Industry. The Employer shall utilize the most  
efficient methods or techniques of construction, tools or labor saving devices. There shall be no  
limitations upon the choice of materials or design except those imposed by safety and health  
considerations.  
SECTION 2. The foregoing enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to exclude other  
functions not specifically set forth. The Employer retains all legal rights not specifically covered by this  
greement,  
  
SECTION 3. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement when an Employer considers it necessary to  
shut down a job to avoid the possible loss of human life, because of an emergency situation beyond the  
Employer's control that could endanger fhe life and safety of an employee. In such cases, employees  
will be compensated only for the actual time worked. In the case of a situation described above  
whereby the Employer requests the employees to stand by, the employees will be compensated for the  
"stand by" time.  
If such a condition continues, the Employer agrees to give at least two hours notice to members  
of the next shift scheduled to report for duty. In the event that at least two hours notice is not given,  
employees who report for work at their regular reporting time and are not put to work shall be paid  
vw show up pay”.  
This article shall be subject to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 12.  
### ARTICLE 21  
### SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
SECTION 1. Both parties recognize that there may be extenuating circumstances when it is to the  
mutual interest of both parties to modify the terms of this Agreement. In that event, it will not be a  
violation of this Agreement for the parties to meet and mutually agree to make such modifications to  
meet a specific need on a specific project.  
LABORERS 16 2003-2007  
SECTION 2. In order to maximize the effect of this provision, all crafts will be requested to act  
uniformly. The General Contractor shall encourage his subcontractors to comply with any modifications  
granted under this provision.  
### ARTICLE 22  
### PRE-DETERMINED WAGE RATE PROJECTS  
   
SECTION 1. In the event the Employer bids a public job or project being awarded by a Federal,  
state, county, city or other public entity which is to be performed at a pre-determined and/or prevailing  
wage rate established pursuant to the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act (Public Law 74-403 (8/30/35)  
as amended 3/23/41 and 7/2/64 (40 USC 276A-276A7 as amended)) or established by the Industrial  
Commission of Washington pursuant to the provisions of Title 39 RCW (39.12) prevailing wages on  
public works- Washington State, Prevailing Wage on Public Works, the published hourly wage rate set  
forth in said public work at the time of bid shall apply for the first twenty-four (24) months of the project  
from the date of the notice to proceed. After twenty-four (24) months the current contract wage and  
fringe rate will apply. The fringe benefit contribution rates for Health and Welfare only shall be those as  
established and maintained by the Master Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, project agreements  
may be mutually agreed upon to allow use of the pre-determined wage rate for the duration of a project  
to exceed twenty-four (24) months.  
SECTION 2. In the event the specifications include an escalator provision covering wages, such  
amount will be included as an increase to wages to the extent that the Employer may recover in the  
escalator claim.  
SECTION 3. The Employer may, when requested in wniting, supply accurate and reliable information  
on company stationery that will assist the Union in establishing the correct Davis-Bacon rates when  
responding to DOL requests for prevailing wage data.  
### ARTICLE 23  
### UNION DUES DEDUCTIONS  
SECTION 1, Upon presentation of a proper authorization form executed by the individual employee,  
the Employer agrees to deduct Union dues from net pay after taxes and remit same to the Union in  
accordance with applicable law. It is understood the Employers will remit each month the Union dues  
deducted in accordance with this Article on the transmittal forms used for fringe benefit contributions  
and that the pro-rata costs of such forms and the collection and accounting thereof will be paid by the  
Union to the fringe benefit administrator.  
2003-2007 17 LABORERS  
### ARTICLE 24  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
SECTION 1. The parties to this Agreement acknowledge and agree to comply with the requirements  
of Federal and State laws, Executive Orders and other rules and regulations governing civil rights to  
insure that there shall be no discrimination in employment against any employee or applicant for  
employment because of age, race, color, religion, sex or national origin.  
SECTION 2. The parties hereto recognize that the Employer's compliance with project specifications  
is Of paramount importance. It 1s mutually agreed, therefore, by the parties to this Agreement, that  
provisions of this Agreement will be interpreted, applied and enforced in a manner that will serve to  
assure compliance with project specifications as they relate to recruiting, training and hiring.  
### ARTICLE 25  
### NORTHWEST FAIR CONTRACTING INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE  
   
SECTION 1. The Employer agrees to deduct from the net pay (after taxes) of each employee  
performing work covered by the terms of the Agreement a sum as listed in Schedule "A," for each hour  
worked and remit same to the Northwest Fair Contracting Industry Improvement Committee.  
Contributions will be made on the same form as the Health and Security payments.  
The pro-rata costs of such forms, collection and accounting will be paid by the Committee to  
the fringe benefit administrator.  
### ARTICLE 26  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
SECTION 1. Labor and Management are committed to providing employees with a drug-free and  
alcohol-free work place. It is the goal to protect the health and safety of employees and to promote a  
productive work place, and to protect the reputation of Labor and Management and the employees.  
SECTION 2. Consistent with these goals, the Employer prohibits the use, possession, distribution or  
sale, at its employment sites, of drugs, drug paraphemalia or alcohol. A testing program pursuant to the  
Substance Abuse Program, may be instituted, upon mutual consent of labor and management which  
consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, to monitor compliance with this policy.  
SECTION 3. An acceptable Substance Abuse Program is contained in a separate addendum to this  
Collective Bargaining Agreement, but part of this agreement_and modifications to this  
LABORERS 18 2003-2007  
Substance Abuse Program , by mutual agreement of an employer and the Union, will mt constitute a  
change to this agreement.  
SECTION 4. Any grievance related to any Employer’s substance abuse program shall be resolved  
though Article 12, Settlement of Disputes, of thts Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 27  
### LABORERS-EMPLOYERS' COOPERATION AND EDUCATION TRUST  
   
SECTION 1. The Employer and the Union recognize that they must confront many issues of mutual  
concem which are more susceptible to resolution through Labor-Management Cooperation than  
through collective bargaining. To seek resolution of these mutual concerns and to advance mutual  
interest through Labor-Management Cooperative efforts, the Employer and the Union agree to  
participate in the Labor-Management Cooperation Committee described herein which is established in  
accordance with Section 302 (C\(9) of the Taft-Hartley Act.  
SECTION 2. The Employer shall contribute to the Seattle Region Labor-Management Cooperation  
Committee in an amount designated by the Union for each hour or portion of an hour for which each  
employee covered by this Agreement is entitled to receive pay. Said contribution shall become effective  
June 1, 1995 and for each month thereafter for the term of this Agreement. The Employer shall submit  
all contributions to the Regional Cooperation Committee in accordance with the requirements of the  
Committee. The Employer and the Union hereby adopt the Agreement and Declarations establishing  
the Regional Cooperation Committee.  
SECTION 3. Contributions will be made on the same form as the Health and Security payments. The  
pro-rata costs of such forms, collection and accounting will be paid by the Committee to the fringe  
benefit administrator.  
SECTION 4. This Article will sunset May 31, 2005 unless the parties to this contract agree to its  
extension.  
### ARTICLE 28  
### LIGHT DUTY RETURN TO WORK  
SECTION 1. The Employer may retum an injured employee to light duty status when allowed by the  
employee’s doctor. When such light duty work is available, light duty functions may not be work of  
another craft or work under classifications covered by the Master Laborers Agreement.  
2003-2007 19 LABORERS  
SECTION 2. At no time will the employee’s total earnings be less than his/her full time loss  
compensation under industrial insurance. Further, the employee will be provided with a full fringe  
package, as per the collective bargaining agreement, over and above total remuneration.  
SECTION 3. Should the employee on light duty have to be laid off due to no work available, the  
Employer will not adversely affect his/her ability to continue to receive loss time benefits from the  
Industnal Insurance Division of Labor and Industries (including self-insured employers), provided they  
are still medically eligible.  
### APPENDIX 1  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGES  
l. SCHEDULE A - WESTERN WASHINGTON: To include the following counties:  
Whatcom, Skagit, King, Pierce, Thurston, Lewis, that portion of Pacific County north of a  
straight line made by extending the north boundary of Wahkiakum County west to the Pacific Ocean,  
Grays Harbor, Clallam, Jefferson, Mason, Kitsap, Island and San Juan.  
### 2. SCHEDULE B - FRINGE BENFFITS  
### 3. SCHEDULE C - ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
### APPENDIX 2  
### CRAFT WORKING RULES  
### APPENDIX 3  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
### APPENDIX 4  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON PROVISIONS  
   
### APPENDIX 5  
### OPERATION OF LOCAL UNION HIRING HALLS  
LABORERS 20 2003-2007  
   
     
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE "A"  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE SCALES  
SECTION 1. Wage scales shall be recognized as applying to classifications and employees shall be  
paid at the rate of the classification which their work calls for.  
The wage rates in the schedules below shall become effective June 1, 2003, and shall remain in  
effect until May 31, 2007  
### NOTE: ONLY ZONE "A" RATES ARE SHOWN FOR ALL CLASSI-FICATIONS. REFER TO  
### SCHEDULE "C" FOR ZONE "B" & "C" RATE ADJUSTMENTS.  
### SECTION 2.  
:  
   
   
     
pO  
ae . .  
A 820003] 820.28 | | 80.90" |  
| BT 823 | | | 80.90"  
| 824.96 | 0.85" | 80.90"  
*Total package increase. The 2005 and 2006 allocation of the wage/fringe will be determined  
sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date.  
2003-2007 21 LABORERS  
   
### DEDUCTION FROM NET WAGE  
ese deductions are included in wages  
Po Effective Date CS  
Fs June 1, 2003 | June 1, 2004 | June 1, 2005 June 1, 2006  
Credit Union $1.00 $1.00  
NW Fair Contracting $0.04 $0.04 $0.04  
$0.60 $0.60 $0.60 $0.60  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
po  
   
    
   
   
     
   
   
      
June 1, 2003 | 2004 | June I, 2005 June 1, 2006  
      
        
     
Effective Date  
aay nar eS =  
pune 1, 2003 | June 1, 2004 | June 1, 2005 | June 1, 2006 __|  
The Fringe benefit contribution rates for the apprentices shall be the same as for the journeymen.  
However, at no time will apprentices’ wage rates exceed those of jourmeymen for the same  
classification of work.  
*Detail clean-up, such as, but not limited to, cleaning floors, ceilings, walls, windows, etc. prior to final  
acce  
Batch Weighman Firewatcher  
Crusher Feeder Flagger  
Fence Laborer Pilot Car  
Traffic Control Supervisor  
Air, Gas or Electric Vibrating Screed | Gabian Basket Builders  
LABORERS 22 2003-2007  
(General Laborer)  
     
    
   
   
Il.  
   
2003-2007  
Asbestos, Mold and Lead Abatement  
Laborers  
Ballast Regular Machine  
Brush Cutter  
Brush Hog Feeder  
Burner -  
Carpenter Tender  
Cement finisher Tender  
Change House or Dry Shack  
Chipping gun (Under 30 Lbs.)  
Choker Setter  
Chuck Tender  
Clean-up Laborer  
Concrete Form Stripper  
Curing Laborer  
Demolition: Wrecking & Moving  
(Including charred material)  
Ditch Digger  
Dump Person  
Technician  
Erosion Control Worker  
Fine Graders  
Form Setter  
Cement Dumper- Paving  
Chipping Gun (30 Lbs. and over)  
Clary Power Spreader  
Concrete Dumper/Chute Operator  
Concrete Saw Operator/Core Dniller  
Dnill Operator (hydraulic, Diamond)  
Faller & Bucker Chain Saw  
Grade Checker & Transit Person  
Groutmen (Pressure)  
Including Post Tension Beams  
Hazardous Waste Worker (Level B)  
Jackhammer  
Laserbeam Operator  
Manhole Builder-Mudman  
Mortarman & Hodcarrier  
23  
. Welder  
    
Grout Machine Tender  
Gninders  
Guardrail Erector  
Hazardous Waste Worker (Level C)  
Maintenance Person  
Material Yard Person  
Pot Tender  
Powderman’s Helper  
Rip Rap Person  
Riggers  
Scale Person  
Scaffold Erector  
Signal Person  
Sloper Sprayer  
Stake Hopper  
Stock Piler  
Toolroom Person (At job site)  
Topper  
Track Laborer  
Truck Spotter  
Vinyl Seamer  
aj MU  
Note: All other work classifications not specifically listed shall be classified as General Laborer Group  
    
Pavement Breaker  
Pipe Layer/Tailer Caulker  
Pipe Pot Tender  
Pipe Reliner  
Pipe Wrapper  
Power Jacks  
Railroad Spike  
Puller-Power  
Raker — Asphalt  
Rivet Buster  
Rodder  
Sloper (Over 20”)  
Spreader (Concrete)  
Tamper (Multiple & Self-propelled)  
Tamper & Similar electric, air & gas  
   
### LABORERS  
    
   
Green Cutter, when using Timber Person Sewer-  
combination of high pressure air & (Lagger, Shorer & Cribber)  
water on concrete & rock, Track Liner Power  
Sandblast, Gunite, Shotcrete, Water Tugger Operator Vibrator  
Blaste,; Vacuum Blaster) Well Point Laborer  
Airtrac Drill Operator Pipe Layer (Lead)  
Caisson Worker Powderman  
Diver Re-Timberman  
High Scaler Hazardous. Waste Worker (Level A)  
Miner  
   
SECTION 3. Swinging Stage/Boatswain Chair: Employees working on a swinging stage or boatswain  
chair or under conditions that require them to be tied off to allow their hands to be free shall receive  
twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour above the classification rate. This provision also applies to high  
scalers when using pneumatic tools.  
SECTION 4. Cofferdam Work: Miners shall be employed on work within or behind cofferdams if  
hazard is equivalent to shaft excavation.  
SECTION 5. Compressed Air Work: The conditions and wage schedules for compressed air work  
are contained in Appendix 3 to this Agreement and hereby become a part of this Agreement as though  
contained in the body thereof.  
SECTION 6. Riggers, Burners and Welders shall be paid according to the classification in which they  
are working.  
SECTION 7. Foreman, Asbestos, Lead, Mold or Toxic Waste Supervisor: When one of the  
Laborers is designated to act as a Foreman, Asbestos, Lead, Mold or Toxic Waste Supervisor, that  
individual shall receive one dollar and sixty cents ($1.60) per hour above -the highest Laborers’  
classification supervised. It is the intent of the parties when Laborers are employed in groups, where in  
the opinion of the Employer a Foreman is required, they shall be supervised by a Laborer Foreman  
covered by this Agreement and he shall be a working Foreman.  
   
   
The Employer has the night to assign a norbargaining unit employee as the Traffic Control  
Supervisor. However, if the employee performs any work of a “Traffic Control Labor”, he/she shall be  
required to make membership in the Union in accordance with the requirements of Article 5.  
SECTION 8. Live Sewer: When men are required to work in or with live sanitary sewage, they will  
receive a premium pay of twenty dollars ($20.00) per day above their regular daily classification pay.  
Further, the Employer will pay for ail necessary inoculations to prevent disease if requested by the  
LABORERS 24 2003-2007  
employee and as recommended by the Department of Labor and Industries (Industrial Safety & Health  
Division).  
SECTION 9. Fringe Option: Union option to take up to twenty cents ($0.20) from wages to apply to  
fringe benefits with sixty (60) days’ notice prior to any anniversary date of this Agreement. If any  
additional sums are necessary to maintain the fnnge benefit plans, by mutual agreement such sums may  
be deducted from wage at any anntversary date of the agreement.  
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE "B"  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
SECTION 1. Health and Security: It 1s agreed that all Employers employing employees within the  
geographic area covered by this Agreement shall contmbute a sum as listed in Schedule "A," for each  
hour worked by all employees performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union  
membership. Said contributions shall be made to the Northwest Laborers-Employers Health and  
Security Trust Fund in the manner as set forth in the Trust Agreement of said Trust Fund. The details of  
the Health and Security Plan established by this Trust Fund shall continue to be controlled and  
administered by a Joint Board of Trustees composed of equal representation from the Unions and the  
Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., who are signatories to the Trust  
Agreement of the aforesaid Trust Fund. Each trustee appointed by the Union shall be a member of the  
Union, or a regular paid employee of the Union. Each trustee appointed for the Employer after June 1  
2003, shall be a member with assigned bargaining nights, of an affiliated firm of the Chapters, that is  
making regular contubutions on compensable hours to the Trust or a regular paid employee of the  
Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. The Trust Agreement, as amended,  
. Shall become a part of this Agreement.  
   
SECTION 2. Pension:  
a. Itis agreed that all Employers employing employees within the geographic area covered by  
this Agreement shall contnbute a sum, as listed in Schedule "A," for each hour worked by all  
employees performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership.  
Said contributions shall be made to the Western Washington Laborers-Employers Pension  
Fund in the Manner as set forth in the Trust Agreement of the said Trust Fund. The details  
of the Pension Plan established by this Trust shall continue to be controlled and administered  
by a Joint Board of Trustees composed of equal representation from the Unions and the  
Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., who are signatories to  
the Trust Agreement of the aforesaid Trust Fund. Each trustee appointed by the Union shall  
be a member of the Union, or a regular paid employee of the Union. Each trustee  
appointed for the Employer after June 1, 2003, shall be a member with assigned bargaining  
rights of an affiliated firm of the Chapters, that is making regular contributions on  
compensable hours to the Trust or a regular paid employee of the Chapters of the  
   
2003-2007 25 LABORERS  
Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. The Trust Agreement, as amended, shall  
become a part of this Agreement. Contnbutions will be made on the same form as Health &  
Security payments.  
b. Itisa that a portion of the negotiated contributions to the Pension Fund in 2a above, in  
an amount determined by the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund in consultation with the  
Pension Fund actuary, may be remitted to a Non-Qualified Excess Benefit Trust to be  
utilized as necessary to establish, fund and administer the Non-Qualified Excess Benefit  
Trust and a Non-Qualified Excess Benefit Plan under guidelines established in Intemal  
Revenue Service Letter Rulings. The Excess Benefit Plan will be used solely to provide  
pension benefits to Pension Fund participants whose benefits are otherwise limited by  
Internal Revenue Code Section 415. The Excess Benefit Plan and Trust will be  
administered by a Board of Trustees, consisting of the same Trustees who administer the  
Pension Fund. The Pension Fund Trustees are granted the authority to establish and  
maintain the Excess Benefit Plan and Trust, provided that the language of the Excess Benefit  
Plan will allow for its termination if continuing benefits under the Excess Benefit Plan will |  
impair the funding status of the Pension Plan, or if legislation is adopted modifying Internal  
Revenue Code Section 415 to such an extent that the Excess Benefit Plan is no longer  
required. In such event, the remaining articles and sections of this collective bargaining  
agreement shall be unaffected and shall otherwise remain in full force and effect.  
SECTION 3. Credit Union: It is agreed that all Employers employing employees within the  
geographic area covered by this Agreement shall subtract a sum, as listed in Schedule “A” from each  
employee’s net pay check (after taxes), for each hour worked by its employees performing work  
covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said contributions shall be made to the  
Qualstar Credit Union Contributions will be made on the same form as Health & Security payments  
and that the pro-rata costs of such forms and the collection and accounting thereof will be paid by the  
Union to the fringe benefit administrator.  
SECTION 4. Training: It is agreed that all Employers employing employees within the geographic  
area covered by this Agreement shall contribute a sum, as listed in Schedule "A," for each hour worked  
by all employees performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said  
contributions shall be made to the Northwest Laborers-Employers Traming Fund in the manner as set  
forth in the Trust Agreement of said Trust Fund. The details of the Training Program established by this  
Trust Fund shall continue to be controlled and administered by a Joint Board of Trustees composed of  
equal representation from the Union and the Chapters of the Associated General Contractors of  
America, Inc., who are signatories to the Trust Agreement of the aforesaid Trust Fund. Each trustee  
appointed by the Union shall be a member of the Union or a regular paid employee of the Union. Each  
trustee appointed by the Employers after June 1, 2003, shall be a member with assigned bargaining  
rights of an affiliated firm of the Chapters that is making regular contributions on compensable hours to  
the Trust or a regular paid employee of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. The Trust  
   
LABORERS 26 2003-2007  
Agreement, as amended shall become a part of this Agreement. Contributions will be made on the  
same form as Health & Security payments.  
SECTION 5. Economic Action: In the event an Employer fails to make the monetary contributions in  
conformity with this section of the Agreement, the Union 1s free to take any economic action against  
such Employer it deems necessary, including, but not limited to, the removal of all employees covered  
by this Agreement and such action shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement.  
SECTION 6. Rights of Parties: It is understood that the Union and Employer Associations are  
principal parties to all Trust Agreements and are, therefore, entitled to full information on the action of  
the trustees and the operation of the Trust.  
SECTION 7. Trust Agreements: The individual Trust documents are part of this Agreement as if  
included herein, but may be amended during the term of this Agreement and such amendments when  
adopted by the parties shall also become part of this Agreement.  
SECTION 8. Consolidation Study: The trustees may have a study made to see ‘if it would be  
beneficial to the funds and their recipients if any or all of the trusts were consolidated or merged with the  
Trust Funds of any other Trusts. If the study shows that a consolidation or merger would be beneficial,  
then the Bargaining Committee will consider such merger. The trustees have the authority to investigate,  
evaluate and present their recommendations to the ncgotiating committee  
consolidation, amalgamation, joinder or other simular situations. The trustees’ authority, in this respect,  
shall be limited to the power to prepare and recommend agreements to consummate the same and to  
recommend the transfer of the monies and properties of the said Trust Fund or Funds to any successor  
trust.  
SECTION 9. It is agreed by the Employers within the area covered by this Agreement that this  
section covering the Employers’ Trust Fund contributions shall continue as a separate written agreement  
including the legal remedies for collection of contributions during the period of negotiations for a new  
agreement, and may be enforced by the Trust Funds in either State or Federal Court, at the election of  
the Trust Funds.  
### APPENDIX 1  
### SCHEDULE "C"  
### ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
SECTION 1. The payment for transportation reimbursement shall be governed by the following  
provisions:  
The parties recognize that it is sometimes inconvenient to get to the job location because of  
varying distances. It is agreed and understood that while traveling to and from work, the employees are  
2003-2007 27 LABORERS  
not within the course and scope of their employment and the relationship of Employer-employee does  
not commence until the hourly wage commences.  
SECTION 2. The parties therefore adopt the following provisions for wage scales:  
Aberdeen Kent Shelton  
Bellingham Mt. Vernon Sunnyside  
Bremerton Olympia Tacoma  
Centralia Pt. Angeles Wenatchee  
Chelan Pt. Townsend Yakima  
Everett Seattle  
Zone Pay Remuneration:  
1. All jobs or projects located within twenty-five (25) radius miles of the respective city  
halls of the above mentioned cities shall receive the basic rate of pay for all classifications (Zone A) as  
listed in Schedule "A".  
2. All jobs or projects located more than twenty-five (25) radius miles and less than forty-  
five (45) radius miles from the respective city halls of the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone '"B"  
allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased by seventy cents ($0.70) per hour.  
3. All jobs or projects located more than forty-five (45) radius miles from the resnective  
city halls of the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone "C" allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be  
increased by one dollar ($1.00) per hour.  
SECTION 3. Toll & Ferry Fares: All necessary ferry or other forms of water transportation are to be  
reimbursed by the Employer in the following instances and manner:  
A. Employees will be reimbursed at the passenger's fare or passenger's carfare when  
substantiated by receipts.  
B. When employees elect to live at or near the project and forego daily ferry travel, it is  
recognized that they are entitled to the prerogative of visiting their homes for the weekend, and in that  
event charges shall be paid for such weekend travel as substantiated by receipts.  
C. When circumstances make it necessary that a toll bridge be utilized, the employees will  
be accordingly.  
SECTION 4. Board & Lodging: When an Employer provides camp or board and lodging, the basic  
wage scale will be observed and the rate for camp or board and lodging will not exceed fifteen dollars  
($15.00) per day to be paid by the employee. Any costs over fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day will be  
absorbed by the Employer. On jobs in remote areas where camp or board and lodging is not provided  
and housing is inadequate or the cost of housing is prohibitive the Employer will make every effort to  
arrange for housing at reasonable rates to his employees.  
LABORERS 28 2003-2007  
On jobs where an Employer establishes a camp with board and lodging, or where the Employer  
prohibits private vehicles beyond a designated area, which in either case is more than reasonable  
walking distance from the job site, the Employer, the District Council representative and the Chapter  
representative concerned shall be required to enter into immediate negotiations to establish all conditions  
of travel and/or transportation from the camp or parking area to the place of work on the job site.  
### APPENDIX 2  
### CRAFT WORKING RULES  
SECTION 1. Shop Steward: There will be no discrimination against any workmen because of past or  
present union activities or because of race, creed, sex, age or color. However, no workman, unless he  
has been designated as the working steward on the job, is to use the Employer's time for union  
activities. The Employer shall be informed of the names of the appointed stewards.  
The authority of the job steward shall be limited to the investigation of complaints which may be  
m violation of this collective bargaining agreement. He/she shall present such findings to the Union  
Agent for processing.  
No steward shall be allowed to solicit membership in this organization or to collect any monies  
from any employees, nor shall he have any authority to take strike action or any action intcrrupting the  
Employer's business, and shall perform work of the Employer to the same extent as other employees.  
When an Employer or superintendent deems it necessary to discharge an appointed working  
steward during the course of a job, he will, to maintain harmony, inform the Union beforehand of the  
necessity of such action.  
SECTION 2. Union Notification: When an Employer moves into a territory away from his home area  
to begin a new project, he/she will notify the Local Union in whose territory he/she is to perform the  
work prior to starting said project.  
SECTION 3. Protective Clothing: On sewer, water mains, tunnels, concrete and other work which  
actually warrants, such protective clothing as rubber boots, pants, coats and leather or rubber gloves of  
proper size will be supplied by the Employer, such clothing to be charged and signed out to the  
employee who are to guarantee their retum in like condition, normal wear and tear excepted or pay for  
the same. Rubber gear will not be furnished to turn foul weather.  
SECTION 4. Flaggers: It is agreed by placing the classification of flaggers under Group II that when  
in the opinion of the Employer the “uniform” has the effect of better control of traffic and thereby  
protects the public and the workmen on major arterials or severely congested city streets or highways,  
the Employer may use off duty uniformed policemen without violation of this labor Agreement.  
However, the Employer may not use retired policemen or security guards. Further, it is the intent to use  
Laborers who are certified as flaggers where possible.  
2003-2007 29 LABORERS  
Where conditions are normal, it is the intent to use Laborers to do on-the-job flagging, on new  
roads or street construction and on sewer and other work in residential or rural areas.  
SECTION 5. Termination Notices: Upon termination, each employee will be given a termination  
notice if they are not eligible for rehire for reasons stated.  
SECTION 6. A pre-job conference may be held if requested by either party.  
### APPENDIX 3  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
   
It is agreed that the following provisions shall apply on work under compressed air:  
SECTION 1, Except as stated or modified hereafter, the condition provisions of the Master  
Agreement apply.  
SECTION 2. All on-the-job travel, compression time and decompression time shall be exclusive of  
time worked as set forth in the wage schedule below, but compensation for this time is included in the  
pay set forth for the work shift.  
SECTION 3, There shall be one rate of pay for all classifications and types of work and workmen  
working under compressed air.  
SECTION 4. Foreman shall receive twelve dollars and ei cents ($12.80) per shift over workmen.  
SECTION 5. Health and Security shall be paid at eight (8) times the hourly rate in effect for each day  
worked. |  
SECTION 6. Retirement pay shall be paid at eight (8) times the hourly rate in effect for each day  
worked.  
SECTION 7. Ona six (6) hour shift the employees will be allowed time off between the end of the  
3rd and 1/2 hour and the Sth hour to eat a sandwich and coffee, but this time shall not exceed fifteen  
(15) minutes and the employees may be rotated so as to keep continuous work at the heading.  
SECTION 8. The highest pressure registered on the gauge for an accumulated time of more than  
fifteen (15) mimutes during the shift shall be used in determining the scale paid.  
SECTION 9. All necessary protective clothing shall be furnished by the Employer, but the employees  
shall guarantee its return, normal wear and tear excepted.  
LABORERS 30 2003-2007  
SECTION 10. Outside lock tenders and gauge tenders shall be paid at eight (8) times the miner's  
Tate, but shall work the same shift ttme as worked by the gang under compressed air.  
SECTION 11. All other outside classifications shall be at classifications and conditions for tunnel  
workers in fee air except that cleaning and mammtaining of change house will be done at general labor  
rate.  
SECTION 12. Employees shall be relieved at the heading or working points as designated by the  
Employer.  
SECTION 13. To compute overtime for each hour of overtime worked at the heading, the overtime  
pay shall be derived by dividing the applicable shift rate by the "overtime divisor" and this figure  
multiplied by the applicable overtime rate from the Master Agreement. On Saturdays, Sundays and  
holidays, all work shall be at the applicable overtime rate.  
SECTION 14. There shall be only one (1) straight time shift in any twenty-four (24) hour period.  
SECTION 15. When required to return for additional decompression in the medical decompression  
chamber, the time thus spent in medical decompression shall be paid at the General Laborers' straight  
time rate and such time shall not be considered as time worked.  
SECTION 16. Medical examinations will be provided by the Employer at no cost to the employee.  
Such examination shall be conducted on the Employer's time.  
### COMPRESSED AIR WORK  
### WAGE SCHEDULE  
6/1/03 6/1/04 6/1/05  
I Ib. Thru 14 Ib.  
6 hours work  
Pree [ane  
6 hours work 210.32  
Over 18 Ib. thru 22 lb.  
4 hours work 210.32 TRA  
6 hours work 9. 231.28  
Over 22 lb. thru 26 lb.  
   
2003-2007 31 LABORERS  
4 hours work  
3 hours work  
3 hours work  
2 hours work  
Outside lock and  
Tender (pe  
   
The pressure controls for all air locks at the job site shall be operated by a lock and gauge  
tender.  
### APPENDIX 4  
### CENTRAL WASHINGTON AREA  
SECTION 1. Territory: This Addendum shall cover all construction work in Chelan, Kittitas, and  
Yakima Counties and that portion of Douglas County lying west of the 120° Meridian.  
SECTION 2. Adoption of Master Agreement: The parties agree to be bound by, to adopt and  
incorporate by reference, as a part of this Addendum, all of the terms and conditions of the Master  
Labor Agreement, except as provided in this Addendum.  
LABORERS 32 2003-2007  
SECTION 3, Wage Rates:  
### ZONE A WAGE RATES ONLY (REFER TO SCHEDULE C FOR ZONE  
### B & C WAGE RATE INFORMATION)  
   
   
   
    
   
    
    
   
    
   
    
   
   
Wage Rates:  
| 3  
Apprenticeship Rates: Percentage Computed on Group II Rate:  
po tos | 106  
| 60% | | TBA | TBA  
| 70% | 13.04 | 13.12 | TBA] TBA  
| 80% | 1490 | 1499 |  
**Total package increase. The 2005 and 2006 allocation of the wage/fringe package will be  
determined sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date.  
     
     
> | >  
af  
     
>  
  
      
However, at no time will apprentices’ wage rates, exceed those of jowmeymen for the same  
classification of work.  
The Fringe Benefit contribution rates for Apprentices shall be the same as for the journeymen.  
### APPENDIX 5  
### OPERATION OF LOCAL UNION HIRING HALLS  
SECTION 1. In order to maintain employment and preserve workable labor relations, as well as to  
insure accomplishment of private and public work, the following shall prevail:  
2003-2007 33 LABORERS  
A. It is recognized within the construction industry that the Union and the Employer have  
jointly developed a pool of qualified and safety trained workers.  
B. The Employer recogmizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining  
representative of employees over whom the Union has jurisdiction.  
C. The recruitment of employees shall be the responsibility of the Union and its Local  
Unions will maintain offices or other designated facilities for the convenience of the Employer and for  
job applicants.  
D. Selection and referral of applicants for jobs shall be on a non-discriminatory basis and  
shall in no way be affected by race, color, age, sex or creed, nor by Union membership, bylaws, rules,  
regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership, policies  
or requirements.  
E. Realizing that employees working under this Agreement acquire certain rights through  
experience in the industry and acquire Health and Welfare benefits for themselves and their families, it is  
agreed that selection of applicants for referral will be on the following basis:  
The Union shall maintain a list of applicants in the Union office or designated point, who are out  
of work and available for employment.  
Registration and referral of applicants shall be on a non-discriminatory basis without regard to  
race, color, sex, age or creed or to membership or non-membership in the Union and shall be in  
accordance with the following plan. The Union shall register all applicants for employment on the basis  
of the Groups listed below. Each applicant shall be registered in the highest priority Groups for which  
he/she is qualified.  
### GROUP A  
Effective January 1, 2003, Group A shall consist of:  
All Laborers who have previously qualified for Group A list status under the terms of this  
Agreement.  
Laborers who have successfully completed the Apprenticeship program, which consists of three  
hundred twenty (320) hours of training and four thousand (4000) hours of covered employment.  
Laborers who have been rated by the New Entrant Assessment (NEA) process as Journey  
Level Construction Craft Laborers.  
LABORERS 34 2003-2007  
Laborers who have worked at least four thousand (4000) hours under the terms of an  
agreement with a District Council as herein defined and have achieved a passing score at a level  
established by the NEA on the “Knowledge Assessment” portion of the assessment.  
All other Laborers who have worked at least four thousand (4000) hours under the terms of an  
agreement with a District Council will qualify for Group A list status only in the classification (s) for  
which they have demonstrated proficiency through a history of employment.  
### GROUP B  
Effective January 1, 2003, Group B shall consist of:  
Individuals who are registered with and have been qualified by the JETC subcommittee and are  
ini ent with the Joint_A ticeship Training Committee. Such individuals  
shall register at the Training Office with the subcommittee. The Area JATC shall determine the number  
of individuals accepted into the new entrant training program upon the recommendation of the  
subcommittee.  
       
Individuals that do not successfully complete their apprenticeship will be denied use of all hiring  
rn re me wee art! fe  
halls + uy thin this Dis ict Council for a TriOd of twelve {12 months the date OL their téerimunation  
from the Program. Hours worked during their apprenticeship will not count towards any list status.  
If at any time, the indenturing of Apprentices causes the Training Trust to be out of compliance  
with Affirmative Action requirements in any Local Union area, the Training indenture  
additional Apprentices from their pool of eligible individuals, at the earliest opportunity, to get the Local  
Union area back into compliance.  
### GROUP C  
Effective January 1, 2003 Group C shall consist of:  
All Laborers_who have previously qualified for Group C list status under the terms of this  
Agreement  
Laborers who have worked at least two hundred (200) hours under the terms of an agreement  
with this District Council.  
### GROUP D  
2003-2007 35 LABORERS  
All other individuals who are seeking employment and who are physically fit, Any individual  
who has previously failed to pass or complete the Pre-Construction Training (PCT) shall not be eligible  
to register on the “D” hist  
F, The Hiring Hall shall make up and prepare the roster for preference of rehire by  
grouping all applicants who come within the above classifications and shall utilize the Health and Welfare  
and Pension records and/or check stubs in establishing these accrued rights based on length of  
employment. The registrant shall have the burden of proving his past experience and skills to the hiring  
hall.  
G. SEATTLE/EVERETT METROPOLITAN AREA: In order to have applicants  
available and ready for work in the densely populated Seattle/Everett Metropolitan area, the Locals in  
that area shall give preference to those applicants present at the hiring hall during the Local’s established  
dispatch hours. Any dispatching done outside of the Local’s established dispatching hours will be done  
by telephone.  
H. Definition of Employer. "Employer" under this Article means, (1) any Employer party to  
the Agreement, or (2) any Employer who employs Laborers under the terms of this Agreement and is a  
contributing employer within the meaning of the Health and Welfare and Penston Plans.  
y, Referral of Applicants: Subject to the limitations referenced in Section 2, applicanis  
shall be referred from Group A, as qualified, in successive order as their names appear on the out-of-  
work list. When Group A has been exhausted:  
Dispatching of Group B apprentices shall be in successive order as registered on the out-of  
work list. When Group B has been exhausted:  
Applicants shall be referred from Group C, as qualified, in successive order as their names  
appear on the out-of-work list. When Group C has been exhausted:  
Dispatching of Group D registrants shall be by qualification in successive order as registered on  
the list.  
J. When an applicant is referred for employment and is actually employed on a specified  
short-term job, such applicant's position shall not be changed on the out-of-work list. If a registrant,  
upon being referred for employment in regular order, refused to accept employment for which he/she is  
qualified, or voluntarily quits such employment prior to completion of the job, or is fired for cause, such  
registrant's name shall be placed at the bottom of the Group out-of-work list on which he/she is  
registered.  
K. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Hiring Hall dispatching officer to refer  
applicants to a job which is located outside of a metropolitan area whose residence is in close proximity  
LABORERS 36 2003-2007  
to that job even though their priority on the out-of-work list may not be as great as some other applicant  
living at a greater distance.  
L. There shall be no discrimination by the Employer or the Local Union, with respect to  
recruitment, referral, hiring, tenure or discharge of any applicant or worker and any requirement as to  
membership or non-membership in any Union shall be in accordance with the National Labor Relations  
Act of 1947 as amended.  
M. There shall be no discrimination by the Employer or the Local Union, with respect to  
recruitment, referral, hiring, tenure or discharge of any applicant or worker because of race, color, sex,  
age or creed and both the Employer and the Local Union agree to abide by Presidential Orders,  
Federal Laws or State Laws providing for non-discrimination m employment.  
N. It is the intent of the Employer and of the Union by these procedures to fully comply  
with the National Labor Relations Act of 1947 as amended and the regulations and criteria of the  
National Labor Relations Board.  
  
O. The Union and each Local Union shall post in their main offices all provisions relating to  
the referral and hiring provisions of this Agreement.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF this Agreement has been executed by the Washington and Northem  
Idaho District Council of Laborers and its local unions party hereto. And the AGC of Washington, a  
Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., on behalf of certain individual  
members who have authorized the Chapter to execute the agreement on their behalf.  
### FOR THE EMPLOYERS: FOR THE WASHINGTON AND NORTHERN  
### IDAHO DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS:  
Doug Peterson Larry Bindner, Business Manager &  
AGC of Washington Secretary- Treasurer  
Negotiation Committee Chairman  
Date Date  
2003-2007 37 LABORERS  
### WESTERN/CENTRAL WASHINGTON LOCALS  
l. Bellingham. #276 (360) 733-0900  
1700 N. State Street (360) 733-0089 FAX  
Bellingham., WA 98225  
2. Everett #292 (206) 259-5077  
2810 Lombard Ave., Suite #100 (206) 252-3062 FAX  
Everett, WA 98201  
Wenatchee (509) 662-9762  
(509) 663-8572 FAX  
3. Mt. Vernon #901 (360) 336-6159  
1221 Riverside Dr. Suite C (360) 336-6159 FAX  
Mt. Vernon, WA. 98273  
4. Seattle #242 (206) 441-0481  
2800 1* Ave., Rm. #50 (206) 728-8756 FAX  
Seattle, WA 98121  
5. Seattle #440 (206) 329-1540  
565-13" Avenue (206) 329-0156  
Seattle, WA 98122  
6. Tacoma #252 (206) 383-1493  
1742 Market Street (206) 597-4980 FAX  
Tacoma, WA 98402  
Aberdeen Sub- Office (360) 533-5658  
(360) 533-5663 FAX  
Bremerton Sub-Office (360) 377-1313  
(360) 479-7592 FAX  
Olympia Sub-Office (360) 357-6460  
Port Angeles Sub-Office (360) 357-9900  
7, Yakima #614 (509) 452-4332  
507 So. 3™ Street (509) 452-4337 FAX  
Yakima, WA 98901  
LABORERS 38 2003-2007  
### WASHINGTON & NORTHERN IDAHO DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### FOR  
### PRIVATE SECTOR WORK  
THIS MEMORANDUM, effective the first day of June, 2003, by and between the WASHINGTON  
& NORTHERN IDAHO DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS, hereinafter referred to as the  
"Union" and the undersigned Employer, hereafter referred to as the "Employer."  
1. Competitive Conditions: The parties listed below agree that this Memorandum of Understanding for  
Private Sector Work is provided for the purpose of giving the signatory contractor the opportunity to be  
competitive in negotiating and bidding in the private sector limited to the scope listed in paragraph 4  
below.  
2. Adoption of Master Labor Agreement: The parties agree to be bound by, to adopt and incorporate  
all of the terms and conditions of the Master Labor Agreement, except as provided in this  
Memorandum of Understanding.  
3. Notification: The Employer shall notify the affected Local Union when work is to be performed  
under this Memorandum prior to starting work. Failure to notify the Union will result in the payment of  
100% wage rates until the Union ts properly notified in writing.  
4. Coverage: This Memorandum shail cover all privately funded projects whose value is $3.0 million  
or less (excluding electrical on civil work, i.e., signals and traffic lighting).  
>. Fringe Benefits: Fringe Benefits shall be 100% of those listed in the Master Labor Agreement  
during the terms of this Agreement.  
6. Wage Rates: The wage rates covered by this Understanding shall be equal to ninety percent (90%)  
of the wage rates established in the Western Washington area and eighty-five percent (85%) of those  
wage rates established in the Central Washington area.  
7. The Employer and Union agree that when the Laborers are working on the same payroll as another  
craft that are receiving a higher percentage scale, then those Laborers will also receive the higher  
percentage scale. This Memorandum will in no way affect the provisions of Article 22 of the Master  
### Labor Agreement.  
It is expressly agreed by the parties hereto that this Memorandum is not intended to circumvent  
the wage rates set forth in the Master Labor Agreement through artificial staging or phasing of projects  
for the sole purpose of applying the limits stated herein.  
2003-2007 39 LABORERS  
H:\DAP\WORD\LABOR\Contracts - Official\2003-07 Contracts\Laborers\Laborers 2003-07 + Private for Web.doc  
LABORERS 40 2003-2007