Dplica be. $6 50  
   
I 060 -¢¢.  
Between  
### LABORERS’ LOCAL 500  
### TOLEDO, OHIO  
. Laborers’ District Council of Ohio ~  
Laborers’ International Union  
of North America, AFL-CIO  
2003 - 2007  
   
and  
Associated General Contractors  
of Northwest Ohio Inc.  
Labor Relations Division  
### BUILDING AGREEMENT  
July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2007  
56 pay  
Laborers’ Local 500  
Affiliate of  
Laborers’ International Union of North America, AFL-CIO  
2270 Ashland Avenue  
Toledo, Ohio 43620-1200  
. Phone: (419)  
Fax: (419) 243-2061  
### WA  
     
mene tee oe  
; - - =e .  
. . . oma dea hs ev - wd eal  
: _  
‘  
a ee ope  
t F a- sy el ewe RT fa  
= Thomas, Business Manager  
Mobile: (419) 265-9173  
Pager: (419) 449-0111  
E-Mail: >:  
~ Phillip Copeland, Sécretary-Treasurer/Field Representative  
Mobile: (419) 265-9171  
-Thomas P. Leonard, Field Representative. .  
Mobile: (419) 265-9174  
Kenneth Ragland, Field Representative  
Mobile: (419) 265-9175  
Frankie D. Fann, Apprenticeship Coordinator  
Mobile: (419) 265-9682  
Table of Contents  
Article Page  
| Term of 1  
it Collective Bargaining Unit.. . vue I  
il Union Recognition / Hiring / Nondiscrimination . bese 2  
IV Work Jurisdiction / Tenders... ee 4  
### D  
TAGE: . 5  
Scaffolding ... wo  
Excavating and Foundations . 5  
Shafts and Tunnels, Subways and Sewers ...... 6  
General Excavating and Grading 6  
Concrete, Bituminous Concrete & Aggregates.... 6  
Utilities ANd PiPElINES 7  
Drilling and Blasting 7  
Prestressed or Precast......  
Mason Tender cece 8  
Plasterer Tender ....... O  
Cement Mason Tender 8  
TAMpOraly 9  
lron Worker g  
Carpenter Tender ........  
Rough Materials D  
Som Finish 19  
CHORD) nics 10  
Deep Ic for Refineries and Plants. ........... 10  
10  
Wrecking... TM  
Toxic / Hazardous Waste .. 11  
Skid Steer & Forklift 17  
Lead . V2  
V Wage Rates / Classifications sees 13  
VI Fringe Benefits .. esas 19  
Vil Contractors Administrative Fund . 28  
/ National Joint Board 29  
IX Laborers-Employers  
Cooperation and Education Trust 30  
Table of Contents  
(continued)  
X Subcontracting ... , 30  
Xl Shift Work . vores wa 3O  
Xil Repair / Rehabilitation /  
Maintenance Work .. ME ot OF 1  
XI Reporting Time.. 31  
XIV Parking Provision .. © oo Oe  
XV Work Hours / Holidays /  
/ ie Day... sk Ge  
XVI Picketing ..  
### FOrEMAN 36  
XV Authorized Union Representative .............. . 37  
XVill Steward.. von OF  
XIX Dismissal .. .. 38°  
XX Grievance and Arbitration .. OG  
XX] Substance ADUSE 39  
XXIl Physical Examinations 40  
Workers’ Comp. Ins, /  
a, .9acial Security ... . 40  
XXV_ Job Site Facilities ... . 40  
XXVI Arbitration . 44  
XXVIII Termination of  
Non-Association Contractors 44  
XXVIl|_ Health & Welfare and Pension Plan ........... .. 42  
XXIl_ Working Rules .. . 43  
XXX More Favorable Terms .. AS  
Off-the-Job Training Program 43  
XXXII Apprentices ... .. 44  
XXXIll Employee Competition / Signatures _ .. 46  
Addendum A  
Hazardous Waste Removal & Lead Abatement . 47  
Addendum B  
Additional Specialized Jurisdiction 48  
### wT W OF  
1 2 3 4  
7 8 9 10 11  
15 16 17 #18  
22 23 24 25  
29 30 31  
11 12 13  
18 19 20  
25 26 27  
### MARCH  
### T WT  
3  
4 5 6  
414 1412 43 2  
18 19 20  
25 26 27  
14°15 16  
21 22 23  
26 29 30  
13 14 15  
20 21 22  
27 28 29  
   
### JANUARY  
### T  
6  
13  
20  
27  
w oT  
1  
7 #8  
14 15  
21 22  
28 29  
### SEPTEMBER  
T Wi T  
1 2  
7  
14 15 16  
21 22 23  
28 29 30  
9 10 14 12  
16 17 18 #19  
23 24 25 26  
30  
### DECEMBER  
### T W T  
t 2 3  
7 8 10  
14 18 16 17  
21 22 23 24  
28 29 30 31  
### F  
   
### JANUARY  
T Ww  
4 § 6  
11. #2 13  
18 19 20  
25 26 27  
15 16 17  
22 23 24  
### APRIL  
### T W T  
5 6 7  
12 13 14  
19 20 21  
28 27 28  
### NOVEMBER  
### T W T  
t 2 3  
8 93 10  
15 16 17  
22 23 24  
### DECEMBER  
7 8  
14 415 46  
21 22 23  
28 29 30  
   
### AUGUST  
### T W T  
1 #2 3  
8 9 10  
15 16 17  
22 23 24  
29 30 31  
### SEPTEMBER  
T W iT  
5 6 7  
12 13 14  
19 20 21  
26 27 28  
   
vi  
8 9  
14°15 16  
21 22 23  
28 29 30  
   
vii  
### AGREEMENT  
{1) This Agreement, entered into as of the 1st day of July  
2003, by and between the Associated General Contractors of  
Northwest Ohio, Inc., Labor Relations Division (hereinafter  
referred to as “Employer”) and Local No. 500, Laborers’ tn-  
ternational Union of North America and Laborers’ District  
Council of Ohio (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).  
(a) It is specifically understood and agreed that the Laborers’  
District Council of Ohio, as an entity, separate and apart from  
the Local Unions of which it is comprised, shall not be liable  
hereunder for any reason whatsoever, including but not lim-  
ited to acts of local unions which are members of Laborers’  
District Council of Ohio.  
### ARTICLE |  
### TERM OF AGREEMENT  
(2) | ThisAgreement shall become effective July 1, 2003,  
and shalt remain in full force and effect until midnight June  
30, 2007, and from year to year thereafter unless either party  
desires to modify or terminate the Agreement and files a no-  
tice in writing of its desire to terminate or modify at least sixty  
(60) days prior to midnight June 30, 2007, or prior to midnight  
June 30th of any subsequent year. The parties hereby waive  
any rights they may have to repudiate this Agreement during  
the term of the Agreement or during the term of any exten-  
sion, modification or amendment to this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE | I  
### COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UNIT  
(3) The persons, firms, corporations, joint ventures or  
other business entities bound by the terms of this Agreement  
are referred to in this Agreement as “Employer” or “Em-  
1  
ployers.” The Employers and the Union, by entering into  
this Agreement, intend to and agree to estabiish a single  
multi-employer collective bargaining unit. Any Employer  
who becomes a party to this Agreement shall thereby  
become a member of the multi-employer collective bar-  
gaining unit established by this Agreement.  
(4) Employers covered by this Agreement shall be free to  
designate their own representatives for the purposes of col-  
lective bargaining and contract administration; however, such  
designation shall not affect the Employer’s membership in  
the collective bargaining unit established by this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE III  
### UNION RECOGNITION / HIRING / NONDISCRIMINATION  
(5) UNION RECOGNITION. The Employer recognizes the  
Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all em-  
ployees performing work designated herein as building con-  
Struction Laborers’ work with respect to hours of work, wages,  
rates of pay and all other conditions of employment.  
(6) Each Employer, in response to the Union's claim that  
it represents an uncoerced majority of each Employer's em-  
ployees, acknowledges and agrees there is no good faith doubt  
that the Union has been authorized to and in fact does repre-  
sent such majority of employees. Therefore, the Union is  
hereby recognized as the Sole and exclusive collective bar-  
gaining representative for the employees now or hereafter  
employed in the bargaining unit with respect to wages, hours  
of work and other terms and conditions of employment.  
(7) Itis mutually agreed that all employees who on July  
1, 2003, the effective date of this Agreement, are mem-  
bers of the Union shall, as a condition of employment,  
remain members of the Union in good standing for the term  
of this Agreement. All employees hired after the effective  
date of this Agreement and all employees who are not  
now members of the Union must, as a condition of em-  
ployment, become and remain members in good standing  
on the 7th day following the beginning of their empioyment  
or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is the  
2  
tater.  
(8) tn interpreting good standing in the Union, the Em-  
ployer shall not discharge any employee for non-membership  
in the Union if (1) he has reasonable grounds for believing  
that such membership was not available to the employee on  
the same terms and conditions generally applicable to all mem-  
bers, or (2) if he has reasonable grounds for believing that  
membership was denied or terminated for reasons other than  
the failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and  
initiation fee uniformly required as a condition of acquiring  
and retaining membership in the Union.  
(9) HIRING Upon the request of the Employer, the Union  
will, at times, furnish experienced men capable of performing  
the work of common labor, but the Employer may hire or dis-  
charge whomsoever he desires, within the limitations as set  
forth in paragraph (8), but the employee and the Union must  
be given a reason for discharge upon request.  
(10) Whenever the Employer adds to his Laborer work  
force, he shall have the free right to re-employ any Laborer  
employed by that Emptoyer during the preceding six (6)  
months. Whenever new hires are employed by the Employer  
who have not been employed by the Employer during the pre-  
vious six (6) months, the Employer shail contact the Union.  
The Union will then refer the 1st, 3rd and 5th person and  
every other person thereafter employed on each project. If the  
Employer rejects the applicant referred by the Union, the  
Employer must contact the Union and obtain the 1st and  
2nd replacements from the Union, provided the Union has  
the replacements available. Such referrals shall have the  
specific skills required.  
(11) The Employer, when employing men, shall give prior-  
ity to those men who are qualified to do the work and have  
customarily been employed by Employers in the building and  
construction industry in the Toledo area or the job area. Men  
not customarily employed by the building and construction  
Employers in the area may be employed according to the cus-  
toms of the trade involved.  
(12) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions  
of this Article, the Union shall indemnify and hold harmless  
the Employer from any and all claims, demands, suits,  
charges, complaints, causes of action, judgments, settle-  
ments and orders, including costs and attorney fees re-  
lated thereto, arising out of the operation and administra-  
tion of the hiring hall and / or referral procedure under this  
Article. Provided, however, the Employer in order to be  
held harmless as stated above shall notify the Union within  
ten (10) days of receipt of said claim, demand, etc. and  
the Employer shall turn over said claim, demand, etc. to the  
Union for defense.  
(13} An Employer whose business is located outside the  
jurisdiction set forth in Article IV may bring with him one key  
man on the job. The Employer shall contact the Union and the  
Union shall refer the 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 8th, 9th, 11th and  
every person thereafter hired or employed on the job.  
(14) NONDISCRIMINATION. The Employer agrees in the  
employment of employees and the Union agrees in the refer-  
ral of men and/or the selection of apprentices that there will  
be no discrimination. The Union and the Employer will not  
condone or allow any act or conduct which would be contrary  
to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, or any state or  
federal laws or regulations providing for equal employment  
opportunity and prohibiting discrimination because of race,  
color, national origin, religion, sex, age or disability.  
(15) Whenever in this Agreement “man” or “him” or related  
pronouns may appear, either as words or parts of words, they  
have been used for representative purposes and are meant to  
inctude both the female and male sexes  
### ARTICLEIV  
### WORK JURISDICTION / TENDERS  
(16) The jurisdiction of Local No. 500 Laborers of  
Toledo, Ohio shall cover the following counties: Defiance,  
Fulton, Henry, Lucas, Williams and Wood.  
{17) JURISDICTION. The jurisdiction of this Agreement  
covers all Construction Craft Laborers and Construction  
Craft Laborer Apprentices work performed on building  
construction as given by charter grant to the Laborers’  
international Union from the American Federation of  
Labor-ClO. Construction Craft Laborers and / or Construc-  
tion Craft Laborer Apprentices will be referred to here and  
afier as Laborers and / or Apprentices.  
(18) MULTI-TRADE TENDER. This International Union  
and the individuals it represents was chartered to tend vari-  
ous building trade unions (e.g. ail material handling to the  
approximate point of installation and general clean-up} and a  
Multi-Trade Tender is a natural part of Laborers’ jurisdiction.  
(19) SCAFFOLDING The building of and stag-  
ing for cement masons, brick masons, and plasterers inctudes  
but is not limited to underpinning, shoring, wrecking, raising  
and moving of all structures, also wrecking of all structures.  
Scaffolding also includes but is not limited to receiving, in-  
ventory of, distribution of with component parts to stackpile  
and from stockpiles to closest point of erection, including  
cleaning and oiling, dismantling and stock piling, banding,  
boxing of parts tor shiprnent and all rough terrain  
### (20) EXCAVATING AND FOUNDATIONS. This applies  
to excavating for buildings and all other construction, includ-  
ing airport construction, filtration plants, sewage disposal  
plants and waterworks; digging of trenches, piers, founda-  
tions and holes; digging, lagging, sheeting, cribbing, bracing  
and propping of foundations, holes, caissons, cofferdams,  
wells, cylinders, dams, dikes, subways; grading, pitman, driv-  
ing sheeting by maul or jack hammer, also the of all  
work described herein, including direction of traffic and flag-  
man on the job site. This includes handling and installation  
of wellpoints or any other dewatering system, backfill and  
iamping, pumping of all water, crumbing out al! excava-  
tions, and cleaning up of ali debris (paper, weeds, wiring,  
of all forms not going to be re-used on all  
foundations and piers and the cleaning, oiling, stock piling  
of forms to closest point of erection and preparing for  
shipping.  
### (21) SHAFTS AND TUNNELS, SUBWAYS AND SEW-  
ERS. Construction of sewer shafts, tunnels, subways,  
culverts; all underground work invalved in mines, under-  
ground chambers for storage or other purposes, tunnets  
or shafts for any purpose, whether in free or compressed  
air. Drilling and blasting, mucking and removal of materials  
from the tunnels and shafts. The cutting, drilling and instal-  
lation of material used for timbering or retimbering; lagging,  
bracing, propping or shoring the tunnel or shaft. Assembly  
and installation of multiplate, liner plate and rings. Pouring,  
pumpcreting or guniting of concrete in any tunnel or shaft.  
Operation, manual or hydraulic jacking of shields and the  
use of such other mechanical equipment as may be nec-  
essary. All concrete work as described above in addition,  
the hooking-on, signaling and dumping of concrete and  
material. Installation of well points of any other dewater-  
ing systern.  
### (22) GENERAL EXCAVATING AND GRADING This in-  
cludes all clearing of sites, trees, brush and disposal of same;  
tamping, filling, back filling, grading and landscaping. Land-  
scaping consists of preparing the soil, digging of holes, plant-  
ing of trees, shrubs, seed, straw and fertilizer where unskilled  
or semi-skilled Laborers are connected therewith, including  
setting up of lasers and grade checking.  
### {23) CONCRETE, BITUMINOUS CONCRETE AND  
AGGREGATES. This includes concrete, con-  
crete and aggregates for walls, foundations, floors, or any  
other construction involving mixing, handling, conveying, grout-  
ing, rough grading, pouring in, pifing, vibrating, guniting and  
otherwise applying concrete, whether done by hand or any  
other operation of motorized wheelbarrows or buggies, or  
machines of similar character, whether run by gas, diesel or  
electric power; cutting of nails, wall ties, carrying rein-  
forced rods and mesh, chipping and roughing by hand or  
any other process; wrecking, stripping, dismantling and  
handling of concrete forms, pouring, repairing of side-  
walks, driveways, filling stations, parking lots, preparing  
and grading, tamping of earth and excavating of all floors,  
sidewalks, etc. This also includes placing of concrete  
aggregates, whether poured, pumped, gunited or placed  
§  
by any other process pertaining to the assembly, bracing,  
propping, uncoupling of all connections and parts of, or to,  
equipment used in mixing or conveying concrete, aggre-  
gates or mortar, and the cleaning up of such equipment,  
parts and / or connections. Additionally it includes the ag-  
ing, curing compounds and sprinkling of foundations of  
buildings and structures. This includes the building of cen-  
ters for fireproofing purposes and temporary protective cov-  
ering of all kinds, before and after any concrete pours. The  
covering, hanging, placing of tams, covering with burlap bags  
or insulated blankets, visqueen, or any other type of material  
for purpose of protection or any other purpose shall be the  
work of the Laborers. The building of all runways, ramps re-  
quired to convey and place concrete or other aggregates shall  
be the work of the Laborers . The cleaning of tools, machin-  
ery, equipment and the mixing of dry shake after the pour  
shall be the work of the Laborers. When conveyors are being  
used for placing concrete and are being handied by hand, a  
sufficient number of Laborers will be used. Ail concrete work  
as described above and in addition to the hooking on, the  
unhooking of the bucket, placing, signaling, of all concrete  
and other aggregates shail be the work of the Laborers. Grout-  
ing of alt kinds including pumps, rotary equipment, whether  
precision or otherwise, involving the mixing, and conveying  
and placing, including all epoxy based materials, is the work  
of the Laborers. Sand blasting of all materials, including grade  
checking and set up of lasers is Laborer work.  
(24) UTILITIES AND PIPELINES. All sewer, gas, water,  
electric, steam and drainage, excavating, digging, pipe-laying  
(non-metallic) filling, backfilling, when done by hand. Distri-  
bution of materials used on above work, also concreting and  
grouting. Inno event will any Laborer be permitted to work in  
depths that is considered hazardous without being prop-  
erly sheeted, braced and made safe to work.  
(25) DRILLING AND BLASTING. Drilling, jack hammer-  
ing and blasting, operation of all rock and concrete drifls, in-  
cluding handling, carrying, laying out of hoses, steel han-  
dling, instaliation of alt temporary fines and handling and  
laying out of all blasting mats involving all work in connec-  
tion with blasting, handling and storage of explosives,  
7  
carrying to point of blasting, loading holes, setting fuses,  
making primers and exploding charges is the work of the  
Laborers. Directional drilling is the work of the Laborers.  
(26) PRESTRESSED OR PRECAST. When prestressed  
or precast concrete slabs, walls or sections are used, all load-  
ing, unloading, stockpiling, hooking on, signaling, unhooking,  
setting and barring into place of such slabs, walls or sec-  
tions, grouting of all precast whether by squeeze or hand,  
shall be the work of the Laborers.  
(27) MASON TENDER. Distribution of all materials used  
by a brick mason including but not limited to brick, mortar, tile,  
block and stone by any method including distribution by mo-  
torized wheelbarrows, power pulleys, walk along forkiift trucks,  
rough terrain forklift including gradels or other machines of  
similar or like characteristics, whether driven by gas,  
or electric power, including the hooking on and signaling for  
the same, ringing signal bells on elevator hoists shaff be the  
work of the mason tender, Mixing mortar or grout by hand or  
by use of gas, electric, or diesel powered equipment shall be  
the work of the mason tender.  
(28) PLASTERER TENDER. Distribution of ali materials  
used by a plasterer by any method shall be the work of a  
plasterer tender. When pumped, the assembly, uncoupling,  
bracing, propping of ail connections and parts of or to equip-  
ment used in mixing or conveying, also, operation of equip-  
ment used. Tending salamander, cleaning of plaster debris,  
which includes scraping, sweeping and any necessary wash-  
ing of floors, walls and windows and ringing signal bells on  
elevator hoists.  
(29) CEMENT MASON TENDER. All distribution of all  
materials used by a cement mason by any method shail be  
the work of the cement mason tender, including but not lim-  
ited to: excavating, tamping and finished grading of all drive-  
ways, sidewalks, basement, floors, and aprons; all con-  
crete work for walls, foundations, floors, or any other  
construction, mixing, handling, conveying, grouting, and  
otherwise applying concrete whether done by hand or  
any other process; cutting of nails, wires, wall ties, rais-  
ing reinforced rods, mesh, chipping, and roughing by hand  
or any other process; and ringing of signal bells in eleva-  
tor hoists. The use of lasers, all grade checking for  
sub-grade and operating cement mixers is the work of the  
cement mason tender.  
(30) TEMPORARY HEAT. When temporary heat is re-  
quired for concrete work, plaster work, masonry work or to  
supply protection to workers or to heat shanties, the tending  
of these salamanders, or propane heaters, shail be the work  
of the Laborers.  
(31) IRON WORKER TENDER. Unioading to a stock-  
pile of reinforced rods, wire mesh, windows, window frames,  
doors, door bucks and angle irons when done by hand, also  
metal siding, lockers and uncrating of same.  
(32) CARPENTER TENDER. When there is a continu-  
ous pour of concrete for construction where jacks are used,  
the Laborer shall be used to do ail jacking on this type of  
work, all signaling or bell ringing on all elevator hoists, clean-  
ing of lumber and pulling of nails, drilling for anchor bolts and  
dowels when drilling is done in concrete. The Union recag-  
nizes that stockpile, or stockpiles, shall mean that the Con-  
tractor representative shall designate the stockpiles at the clos-  
est point of erection. Concrete forms should be delivered to  
tne closest point of erection; the oiting and cleaning of such  
forms is the work of the Laborer. Carpenter tender will convey  
scaffolding materials from truck to stockpiles and from stock-  
piles to the closest point of erection. Tender will convey dis-  
mantled scaffolding and component parts to staging area  
where they will inventory, clean, box component parts, band  
planks bracket, frames then load for shipment. Scrap or  
salvageable lumber going to the material yard shall be  
power rigged by Laborers. Hand lines used to raise or  
tower material or forms to a stockpile shall be performed  
by Laborers.  
### ROUGH MATERIALS.  
Planking, shoring, scaffolding, framing, concrete forms,  
concrete deck forms, plyscore, shall be unloaded to a  
stockpile or stockpiles by the Laborer.  
### SEMI FINISH MATERIALS.  
Drywail, cooling tower materials, (floor tile and acoustical tile)  
shall be unloaded and stockpiled by Laborers. The unloading  
of crated, boxed, or cartoned cabinets, fixtures, showcases  
and display cases from truck to stackpite area on main floor  
of a building or to elevator or hoist if to be placed on upper  
floors of building is the work of Laborers. The unloading of  
crated, boxed, or cartoned trim materials such as hardware,  
paneling, casing, stops, baseboard, chair rails, sash,  
doors, door jambs shail be unloaded to a stockpile on the  
main floor or stockpiles on the upper floors by Laborers. Of-  
fice furniture that is assembled, when it arrives on job site,  
shail be unloaded by Laborers.  
{33) CLEANING. Cleaning and clearing of al) debris,  
including wire brushing of window frames, scraping of floors,  
sand blasting and pot tending, removal of surplus material  
from all fixtures within confines of structure and cleaning of  
all debris in building and construction areas is the work of the  
Laborers. The general clean-up, including sweeping, clean-  
ing of fixtures, wash down and wiping on construction facility,  
equipment and furnishings including crates, boxes, package  
waste material, clean-up mopping, washing, waxing and pol-  
ishing or dusting of all floors or areas, the cleaning of interior  
or exterior on all bulidings prior io ine of ihe  
ing by the owner shall be the work of the Laborers. All of the  
above work shall apply, not only to general contractors, but to  
all subcontractors whose work comes within this jurisdiction,  
whether mechanical or otherwise.  
### DEEP CLEANING FOR REFINERIES AND PLANTS.  
Dusting, wiping, washing, degreasing and scraping by  
hand or any other method including sand blasting, water  
blasting (high pressure included) for paint facilities, all  
machinery, floors, walls, ceiling and pits, inctuding toxic /  
hazardous waste is the work of the Laborers.  
(34) The manning and operation of all motor driven  
vacuum systems (wet or dry} shall be the work of the Laborers.  
10  
(35) WRECKING The wrecking or dismantling of par-  
tial or complete buildings and all structures, including all  
demolition and alterations in industrial plants, commercial  
and non-commercial work. Breaking away roof materials,  
homes of all kinds, with use of cutting or other wrecking  
tools, as necessary. Burning, or otherwise cutting, all steel  
structural beams. Breaking away, cleaning and removal  
of all masonry and wood or metal fixtures for salvage or  
scrap. All hooking on and unhooking and signaling when  
materials for salvage or scrap are removed by crane or  
derrick. All loading and unloading or materials carried away  
from the site of wrecking. All clean-up, removal of debris,  
burning, backfilling and renovating, the wrecking and par-  
tial wrecking of all fixtures, counters, partitions, walls,  
floors, shelves, asbestos removal and hazardous waste  
removal, etc., when not salvageable, shall be done by the  
Laborers.  
(36) TOXIC /HAZARDOUS WASTE. All toxic / hazard-  
ous projects will be subject to any and all safety regulations  
and insurance provisions that may be required by the appro-  
priate governmental agencies.  
When dangerous atmospheres are present so that an em-  
ployee is required to wear a special protective suit and / or  
self-contained breathing apparatus at a private, state, federal  
or other designated toxic hazardous waste site, that employee  
shall receive the appropriate hourly rate. Reasonable dress-up  
time and clean-up time will be allowed. Local 500 will desig-  
nate a steward, who shall have access to company monitor-  
ing records and be kept informed of amounts of contaminants  
on the job site. A sheltered “safe zone” area shall be pro-  
vided. There shall be wash-up facilities on all toxic/ haz-  
ardous waste sites.  
(37) SKIDSTEER & FORKLIFT. Powered industrial truck  
operator (skid steer and forklift) class #4 and #5 and (rough  
terrain) class #7 is the work of the Laborer.  
11  
{38} LEAD ABATEMENT. Demolition, removal and dis-  
posal of any lead contaminated materials shall be the work of  
the Laborers.  
(39} Recognizing that the funds available for construction  
should accomplish their greatest possible benefit for the pub-  
lic, the Employers and the Union agree that all machinery which  
increases the man-hour production of all construction work-  
ers shall be used without any restriction.  
(40) Inthe event the Building Trades does not have a pre-  
job conference, it is agreed that, upon the request of either  
party, a pre-job conference must be held at least five (5) days  
prior to commencing work. It is further agreed the Union may  
request and hoid a pre-job conference with the Contractor,  
and if available the owner’s designated representative in at-  
tendance, on an individual Union basis, wherein the following  
items will be discussed and resolved:  
(A) Hiring procedures, including employment of “key man”  
(B) Work assignments  
(C} Wages, hours and conditions  
(D) Shift work  
(E) Safety, health hazards and accident prevention  
(F) Coffee break  
(41} The parties to this Agreement will form a joint com-  
mittee for the purpose of discussing trade jurisdictional prob-  
lems.  
12  
### ARTICLE V  
### WAGE RATES/ CLASSIFICATIONS  
(42) Effective the first full pay period after the respective  
dates set forth below, the wage rates for Defiance, Fulton,  
Henry, Lucas, Williams and Wood Counties shall be as set  
forth in paragraph A on pages 14-17 of this Agreement, ac-  
carding to such classifications listed as Groups A- F in para-  
graph B of this Article, beginning on page 18 of this Agree-  
ment.  
With respect to LECET contributions set out in this Article,  
the following applies:  
(a) the contribution to Ohio LECET or Laborer- Employers  
Cooperation and Education Trust, shall be sent to Ohio La-  
borers’ Fringe Benefit Office, P.O. Box 71-1883, Columbus,  
Ohio 43271.  
(b) the contribution to Regional LECET, or Ohio Valley  
and States Regional Laborers-Employers Coopera-  
tion and Education Trust, shall be sent to Northwest Ohio  
Administrator, P.O. Box 697, Toledo, Ohio 43694-0697.  
Notwithstanding the Wages set out in this Agreement,  
when Laborers complement another craft and that craft is  
receiving a premium rate of pay, Laborers will also re-  
ceive the same premium for “hot” or hazardous type of  
work.  
13  
as  
A. Laborers’ Local #500 - Jurisdiction for Defiance, Fulton, Henry, Lucas,  
Williams and Wood Counties  
Effective the first full pay period after July 1, 2003, wage rates will be as follows:  
Group A*  
Group B  
Group C  
Group D  
Group E  
Group F  
Effective the first full pay period after July 1, 2004, wage rates will be as follows:  
Group A*  
Group B  
Group C  
Group D  
Group E  
Group F  
Base  
Rate  
$20.00  
$20.20  
$20.40  
$20.50  
$10.48  
$13.50  
Base  
Rate  
$20.25  
$20.45  
$20.65  
$20.75  
$10.73  
$13.75  
H& W  
2.60  
2.60  
2.60  
2.60  
2.60  
2.60  
### H&W  
3.20  
3.20  
3.20  
3.20  
3.20  
3.20  
Pen.  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
Pen.  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
Ann.  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.90  
Ann.  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
### T&U  
10  
16  
10  
10  
10  
10  
.10  
10  
.10  
10  
10  
10  
LMCC Appr.  
05 07  
O05  
£05  
05  
05  
05  
05  
.05  
05  
05  
### OS  
07  
07  
07  
07  
07  
T&U LMCC Appr.  
.05 2  
1  
12  
12  
12  
12  
ole  
Ohio Reg.  
### LECETLECET CAF Total  
05 05 26 $27.38  
O5 05 26 $27.58  
05 05 26 $27.78  
05 05 26 $27.88  
05 05 26 $17.86  
05 05 26 $20.88  
Ohio Reg.  
### LECETLECET CAF Total  
05 05 26 $28.28  
05 05 26 $28.48  
05 05 26 $28.68  
05 .05 26 $28.78  
05 26 $18.76  
.O5 05 26 $21.78  
St  
“On Firebrick work, Laborers working over fifty (50} feet, Expediters, Hot Pay, Bottom Man and Top Man shall be  
paid $.75 per hour over Base Rate A.  
FOREMAN - Plus $1.00 per hour over highest journeyman base rate.  
GENERAL FOREMAN - Plus $2.00 per hour over highest journeyman base rate.  
DEDUCTIONS: Dues - $.12 + 3% of gross wages; Laborers’ District Council of Ohio - $.10; SAV - $7.00.  
Classifications  
Group A Building and Construction Laborer, Signalman, Flagman, Tool Cribman, Carpenter Tenders, Utility  
Construction Laborer, Guard Rail Erectors, Deep Cleaning, and Hazardous Waste (Level A)  
Group B_Finisher Tenders, Concrete Handler, Bottom Men, Scaffold Builders, Tunnel Laborers, Pipe  
Layers, Air and Power Driven Tools, Burner on Demalition Work, Swinging Scaffold, Mucker,  
Caisson Worker, Cofferdam Worker, Powder Men and Dynamite Blasters, Creosote workers,  
Mortar Mixer, Form Setter, Mason Tender, Plasterer Tender, Hod Carrier, Laser Beam Set-Up  
Man, Stonemason Tender and Hazardous Waste (Level B)  
Group C Gunite Operator and Hazardous Waste (Level C)  
Group Hazardous Waste (Level D)  
Group E Watchman, Parking and Landscaping  
Group F Installation of Fencing  
9b  
Effective the first full pay period after July 1, 2005 wage rates will be as follows:  
Group A’*  
Group B  
Group C  
Group D  
Group E  
Group F  
Laborers’ Local #500 - Jurisdiction for Defiance, Fulton, Henry, Lucas,  
Base  
Rate  
$20.58  
$20.78  
$20.98  
$21.08  
$141.06  
$14.08  
### H&W  
3.80  
3.80  
3.80  
3.80  
3.80  
3.80  
Pen.  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70°  
1.70  
1.70  
Ann.  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.00  
2.50  
2.50  
10  
10  
10  
10  
10  
10  
05  
.O5  
.O5  
05  
05  
Williams and Wood Counties  
T&U Appr.  
05  
4  
14  
14  
14  
14  
Ohio Reg.  
### LECET LECET  
05 O05  
05 05  
.05 05  
05 05  
05 .05  
05 05  
Effective the first full pay period after July 1, 2006 wage rates will be as follows:  
Group A*  
Group B  
Group C  
Group D  
Group E  
Group F  
Base  
Rate  
$21.52  
$21.72  
$21.92  
$22.02  
$12.00  
$15.02  
H& W  
3.80  
3.80  
3.80  
3.80  
3.80  
3.80  
Pen.  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
1.70  
Ann.  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
2.50  
T&U LMCC Appr.  
05  
.05  
.05  
.05  
.O5  
05  
10  
.10  
10  
10  
10  
10  
20  
.20  
20  
20  
20  
20  
### LECET LECET CAF  
Ohio Reg.  
.05 05  
05 O05  
05 05  
.05 .O5  
.O5 05  
05 05  
26  
26  
26  
26  
26  
26  
CAF Total  
26 $29.23  
26 $29.43  
26 $29.63  
26 $29.73  
26 $19.71  
26 $22.73  
Total  
$30.23  
$30.43  
$30.63  
$30.73  
$20.71  
$23.73  
Zi  
“On Firebrick work, Laborers working over fifty (50) feet, Expediters, Hot Pay, Bottom Man and Top Man  
shall be paid $.75 per hour over Base Rate A.  
FOREMAN - Plus $1.00 per hour over highest journeyman base rate.  
GENERAL FOREMAN - Plus $2.00 per hour.over highest journeyman base rate.  
- $.12 + 3% of gross wages; Laborers’ District Council of Ohio - $.10; SAV - $1.00.  
Classifications  
Group A  
Group B  
Group C  
Group D  
Group E  
Group F  
Building and Construction Laborer, Signalman, Flagman, Tool Cribman, Carpenter Tenders, Utility  
Construction Laborer, Guard Rail Erectors, Deep Cleaning, and Hazardous Waste (Level A}  
Finisher Tenders, Concrete Handler, Bottom Men, Scaffold Builders, Tunnel Laborers, Pipe  
Layers, Air and Power Driven Tools, Burner on Demolition Work, Swinging Scaffold, Mucker,  
Caisson Worker, Cofterdam Worker, Powder Men and Dynamite Blasters, Creosote workers,  
Mortar Mixer, Form Setter, Mason Tender, Plasterer Tender, Hod Carrier, Laser Beam Set-Up  
Man, Stonemason Tender and Hazardous Waste (Level B)  
Gunite Operator and Hazardous Waste (Level C)  
Hazardous Waste (Level D)  
Watchman, Parking and Landscaping  
Installation of Fencing  
B. Classifications:  
Group A: Building and Construction Laborer, Signalman,  
Flagman, Tool Cribman, Carpenter Tenders, Utility Construc-  
tion Laborer, Guard Rail Erectors, Deep Cleaning and Haz-  
ardous Waste (Level A}  
Group B: Finisher Tenders, Concrete Handler, Bottom Men,  
Scaffold Builders, Tunnel] Laborers, Pipe Layers, Air and  
Power Driven Tools, Burner on Demolition Work, Swinging  
Scaffold, Mucker, Caisson Worker, Cofferdam Worker, Pow-  
der Men and Dynamite Blasters, Creosote Workers, Mortar  
Mixer, Form Setter, Mason Tender, Plasterer Tender, Hod  
Carrier, Laser Beam Set-Up Man, Stonemason Tender and  
Hazardous Waste (Level B)  
Group C: Gunite Operator and Hazardous Waste (Level C)  
Group D: Hazardous Waste (Level D)  
Group E: Watchman, Parking and Landscaping  
Group F: Installation of Fencing  
Cc. Effective July 1, 2006, there will be $.20 available (set  
aside) for use for Health and Welfare contributions, if needed,  
far the duration of the Agreement.  
D. The Union will decide if a particular construc-  
tion project is a targeted job. If the Union believes it is, the  
Union will notify the Association of its intention. After the As-  
sociation notilies the Emplayer, the Union and Employer will  
then agree whether to classify the construction project as a  
targeted job.  
E. The Toledo Area Maintenance Agreement is agreed  
to in concept.  
F. In order to maintain the area standard established in  
the Master Agreement, the parties to said Agreement ex-  
press their intent to allow signatory contractors to utilize  
18  
any or all non-economic terms contained in the  
Laborers-OCA Heavy / Highway Agreement, provided the  
wages and benefits paid to bargaining unit employees are  
no less than the wages and benefits set forth in this Agree-  
ment.  
### ARTICLE Vi  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
A. General  
1. The fringe benefit provisions contained herein in para-  
graphs A through F inclusive of this Article shall apply to all  
Employer members of the Association, as herein before  
defined, all Employers who become signatory or bound by  
this Agreement, and all other Employers or Employer  
Groups who become a party to an Agreement relating to  
the fringe benefit programs described herein.  
2. Alt Employers referred to in paragraph A-t af this Ar-  
ticle (all of which Employers are hereinafter referred to as  
“Participating Employers”) who are party to and bound by this  
Agreement acknowledge, accept and agree to be bound by  
the Agreement and Deciaration of Trust, as herein before and  
/orhereafter amended, establishing the:  
(a) Ohio Laborers’ District Council - Ohio Contractors  
Association insurance Fund;  
(b) Laborers’ District Council - Ohio Contractors  
Pension Fund of Ohio;  
(c) Laborers’ Local 500 Christmas Savings Plan;  
(d)} Laborers’ Administrative and Training Fund;  
(e} Laborers’ Training & Upgrading Trust Fund;  
(f} Contractors Administrative Fund;  
(g} Laborers’ Local 500 Profit Snaring Annuity Plan;  
19  
(h) Ohio Valley and Southern States Regiona! Labor-  
ers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust;  
(i) Ohio LECET:  
(j) Laborers’ Local #500 Apprenticeship Fund;  
(k) Labor Management Cooperative Commitee Fund.  
and acknowledge, accept and agree to be bound by the  
Plan and Plan documents of each of said employee benefit  
plans. The Participating Employers and the Union further  
acknowledge and agree that the Trustees shal] have the  
sole and exclusive authority to determine the rules of eligi-  
bility to participate in said Plans and the benefits and cov-  
6rage to be provided therein. No person shall have a vested  
right to participate in any Plan nor to receive any benefits  
or coverage from any Plan except as expressly stated  
therein. The Participating Employers acknowledge and  
agree that copies of the Trust Agreement, Plans and Plan  
documents have been made available to them at the North-  
western Ohio Administrators office or the Ohio Laborers’  
Fringe Benefit Funds office for their review and inspec-  
tion prior to the execution of this Agreement and shall be  
available to them during the term of this Agreement.  
3. Ail Participating Employers who are party to and bound  
by this Agreement shall be bound by the terms, provisions  
and conditions of afl Rules, Regulations and Resolutions and  
amendments thereto promulgated by the Trustees of the a  
tore said employee benefit plans in accordance with the afore-  
said Trust Agreements, whether currently existing or promul-  
gated during the term of this Agreement.  
All Participating Employers who are party to and bound by  
this Agreement hereby accept the designation of the Employer  
Trustees of all of said employee benefit plans and any suc-  
cessor Trustees appointed by the Association in accordance  
with the provisions of the Trust Agreements.  
20  
B. Contributions  
1. The Participating Employers shall contribute to each  
and every employee benefit plan (or to the successor of any  
of said plans) for all employees of each such Participating  
Employer who are members of the collective bargaining  
unit represented by the Union (whether or not the employ-  
ees are members of the Union), as follows:  
{a) Ohio Laborers’ District Council - Ohio Contractors As-  
sociation Insurance Fund: the amount set out in Article  
V, paragraph A, “H & W”, for every hour worked.  
{b)} Laborers’ District Council and Contractors Pension  
Fund of Ohio: $1.70 for every hour worked  
(c) Ohio Laborers’ Training and Upgrading Trust Fund:  
$.10 for every hour worked  
(d) Labor Management Cooperative Committee Fund:  
$.05 for every hour worked  
(e) Contractors Administrative Fund: $.26 for every hour  
worked  
(f} Laborers Local 500 Profit Sharing Annuify Plan:  
$2.50 for every hour worked  
(g)} Ohio Valley and Southern States Regional Laborers-  
Employers Cooperation and Education Trust: $.05 for  
every hour worked  
(h) Ohio LECET: $.05 for every hour worked  
(i) Laborers’ Local #500 Apprenticeship Fund: the  
amount set out in Article V, paragraph A, “Appr.” for  
every hour worked.  
NOTE: The Health & Welfare, Pension, Training & Upgrading  
and Ohio LECET contributions are to be paid to the Ohio  
Laborers’ Fringe Benefit Office, P.O. Box 71-1883, Colurm-  
bus, Ohio 43721, as depositors. All other fringe benefit funds  
21  
to be paid to the Northwesterm Ohio Administrators, inc. Trust:  
ees, P, 0. Box 697, Toledo, Ohio 43697-0697, as depositors.  
Cc. Deductions  
t. The Employer agrees to deduct the original Union  
initiation fee and monthly dues, or readmission fee, for any  
employee who voluntarily and individually authorizes the de-  
duction. The Union will furnish the employees proper payroll  
deduction authorization forms in conformity with federal and  
state laws and upon receipt of the authorizations properly  
signed by the employee, the Employer will make the required  
deductions. The deductions will be paid to the Union by the  
15th of the month following the deduction.  
Z. There shall be a Dues Deduction Plan whereby the  
Participating Employers shall deduct the sum of twelve cents  
($.12) plus 3% of the gross hourly pay for each hour paid for  
every employee who has signed and provided the Emplayera  
dues authorization form.  
3. The Employer agrees to deduct from the base rate  
seven cents ($.07) per hour for each hour paid; of this amount,  
five cents ($.05) shail go to the Narthwest Ohio Building Trades  
Council and two cents ($.02) shall go to the Local 500 Orga-  
nizational and Assessment Fund.  
4, The Employer agrees to deduct from the base rate  
ten cents ($.10)} per hour for each hour paid for the Laborers’  
District Council of Ohio.  
The Employer agrees to deduct from the base rate $1.00 per  
hour for each hour paid for the Laborers’ Local No. 500 Christ-  
mas Savings Plan.  
D. Reporting Forms  
1. All Participating Employers shail report to the  
Administrator(s} of the aforesaid employee benefit plans, or  
such other duly appointed depository, for all hours paid {ar  
otherwise contributed for) by all employees participating in  
the employee benefit plans on forms provided by the Trust-  
22  
ees of the Plans. It shall be the obligation of the Employers to  
have and use the official reporting forms. lf an Employer  
maintains his payroll records and information on computer or  
other electronic equipment and desires to use and submit the  
required information in the form printed out by the computer  
or other electronic equipment, the Employer may use and  
submit such forms other than official reporting forms. The  
Administrator, however, has the right to reject such forms.  
2. All reports shall be for the full calendar month last pre-  
ceding; however, an Employer may use other reporting peri-  
ods subject to rejection by the Administrator.  
E. Time of Payment of Contributions  
1. All Participating Employers shall remit all fringe  
benefit amounts due and owing on or before the Fringe Ben-  
efit Payment Date, which ts hereby established as the 15th  
day of each calendar month (or the first business day thereaf-  
ter if the 15th is not a business day), for all hours paid in the  
prior calendar month. If the Participating Employer remits his  
payment by mail and the envelope is posted with a postage  
Stamp, and if the stamp is canceled by the U.S. Postal Ser-  
vice on or before the 15th day of the month (or the first busi-  
ness day thereafter if the 15th is not a business day), it shall  
be deemed to have been paid timely regardless of the date of  
actual receipt. If the Participating Employer remits his pay-  
ments by mail and his envelope is posted with an office post-  
age meter, the payment must be received by the 15th day of  
the month (or the first business day thereafter if the 15th is  
not a business day) to be deemed paid timely. If the Partici-  
pating Employer causes the fringe benefit payment to be de-  
livered to the Fund Office, it shall be stamped as to the date  
and time of receipt and, if it is receipted on or before the 15th  
day of the month (or the first business day thereafter if the  
15th is not a business day), it shail be deemed timely paid.  
2. An Employer who is delinquent in the timely remit-  
tance of fringe benefit payments more than once per calen-  
dar year, or more than thirty (30} days late at any time, shall  
make future payments and deductions within seven (7) days  
following the close of the workweek for a period of one year.  
23  
3. Employer has not remitted the total fringe  
benefit amounts due and owing to any Plan and filed the offi-  
cial reporting forms by the Fringe Benefit Payment Date as  
aforesaid, said Employer shall be liable to the Trustees of  
each employee benefit plan as to which said Employer is in  
default for liquidated damages in such amount as shall be  
established by the Trustees of each such Plan by a promul-  
gation of Rules and Regulations in accordance with the Trust  
Agreements. The Trustees shali notify all Participating Em-  
ployers of all promulgations of Rules and Regulations estab-  
lishing and revising the liquidated damage charges and any  
terms, conditions and provisions thereof in advance of the  
enforcement thereof; but by acceptance and participation in  
this Agreement, al! Participating Employers shall be bound  
by such promulgations on and after their effective dates.  
4. {fa Participating Employer is in violation of the provi-  
sions of paragraph E-3 hereof, in addition to the provisions  
thereof, the Participating Employer shall be fiable to the Trust-  
ees of each said employee benefit plan as to which said Em-  
ployer is delinquent or in default for reasonable attorney fees  
and any court of law, arbitration proceedings or federal or state  
administrative agency costs actually expended by the Trust-  
ees to enforce said Employer’s compliance with the provi-  
sions of this Agreement.  
F. Employer Delinquency Control  
1. The Trustees of the several employee benefit plans may  
establish Payroll Audit Programs which shall be binding upon  
the parties. The Trustees shall also have the right to deter-  
mine who shall bear the cost of the audit. The Trustees shall  
notify the Participating Employer, in writing, of their desire to  
audit and allow sufficient notice for the Participating Employer  
to make available at his premises those payroll records and  
other records, reports and data reasonably necessary to con-  
duct the audit in accordance with generally accepted account-  
ing principles. The Trustees and their agents and employees  
shall conduct the audits at such time and place and manner  
as to preserve the confidentiality of all information as obtained.  
24  
2. CASH DEPOSIT. All Employers shall fumish a minimum  
cash deposit in the amount of $1000 at the office of the North-  
western Ohio Administrators, Inc. to assure prompt payment  
of the ernployee Health & Welfare, Pension, Vacation, Ap-  
prenticeship and Promotion funds as required by this Agree-  
ment. Those Employers employing three to five men shail be  
required to furnish a $1500 cash deposit. Those Employers  
employing six to ten men shall be required to furnish a $2000  
cash deposit. Those Employers employing eleven to fifteen  
men shail be required to furnish a $2500 cash deposit. Those  
Employers employing over fifteen men shail be required to  
furnish a $3000 cash deposit. Provided however, that those  
Employers who have employed members of the Union during  
the preceding 24-month period and who have made all of the  
payments aforementioned without default, are hereby exempt  
from furnishing a cash deposit until such time as they be-  
come in default. Upon becoming in default, an Employer will  
be required to furnish a cash deposit which will be released at  
the expiration of the first 24-month period during which there  
has been no default.  
3. Any Employer who has ceased all employment within  
the jurisdiction of this Agreement shall be entitled to a release  
of the cash deposit upon the payment of all of the aforemen-  
tioned payments.  
4. Upon release of the cash deposit to an Employer, he  
shall also receive the interest earned on said cash deposit.  
5. Inthe event ofa violation of this section by an Employer,  
the Union shall be authorized to withdraw its Laborers from  
said Employer until such time as said Employer complies with  
the requirements of this section.  
G. General  
4. Inthe event any employee benefit plan provided for in  
this Agreement and paid for by Participating Employer contri-  
butions is reduced or eliminated because of governmental ac-  
tion, the net savings, if any, to said Employer attributable to  
said governmental action shall revert to the employee as wages  
and allocated as wages or tringe benefits as determined by  
25  
the Union. The increase, if any, shall be effective as of the  
first day the governmental action is effective. Net savings  
is hereby defined to be the difference between the cost  
of the Participating Employer's contribution to Health and  
Welfare or Pension, as the case may be, and the total cost  
to the Employer of the governmental program which  
caused the reduction in or elimination of the Health and  
Weltare program or Pension program, as the case may  
be. Funds set aside during the term of this Agreement for  
the Health and Welfare contribution increases shai! not be  
considered in the application of the foregoing formula and  
Shall, if used during the term of this Agreement and in the  
event of governmental action, revert to the Participating  
Employer.  
2. If the federal government institutes wage controls  
in any form and any portion of this Collective Bargaining Agree-  
ment is deterred or cut back, the parties shall meet promptty;  
and, if the action of the federal government which caused the  
deferral or cutback makes it tegally permissible to do so, the  
parties shall attempt to reallocate the monetary equivalent of  
the deferred or cutback wages or benefits in a manner that  
complies legally with the action of the federal government.  
If it is not legally permissible to reallocate the deferred or cut  
back portion, the Employer shal! commence paying the wage  
and/or benefit rate that was deferred or cut back when and if  
it becomes fegally permissible to do so.  
3. It is acknowledged and agreed by the parties that  
upon the making of alt contributions required of them by this  
Agreement, Participating Employers shall have no other or  
further obligation or responsibility to pay for, provide or other-  
wise fund any tringe benefits; it being the acknowledged in-  
tention of all parties that benefits from all employee benefit  
plans shall be limited to those which can be financed from the  
respective trust funds. The Participating Employers shall not  
be liable or responsible for the failure of the Trustees to se-  
cure, pay or provide the benefits contemplated in the employee  
benefit plans for any participant or beneficiary. The obligation  
of the Participating Employers shall be and is hereby expressly  
limited to the payment of contributions to the trust funds  
26  
and no more. If at any time any of the employee fringe benefit  
trust funds shall not be sufficient to pay out and provide all of  
the benefits provided for in the employee benefit plans, the  
Trustees shall take such action as may be necessary and  
desirable in connection with the reduction of the then exist-  
ing benefits in order that the cost of the benefits shall not be  
greater than that which can be paid from the trust funds.  
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is expressly  
acknowledged and agreed that the Participating Employer  
shall have no responsibility or obligation to increase its con-  
tributions to the trust funds beyond that otherwise expressly  
provided for herein. It is expressly acknowledged, under-  
stood and agreed that the Participating Employer does not  
guarantee any benefits to any participant or beneficiary; the  
obligation and responsibility of the Participating Employer be-  
ing expressly limited to its obligation to make agreed contnibu-  
tions into the trust funds.  
4. In the event the parties hereto desire to alter the allo-  
cation of funds from the overall economic wage package ne-  
gotiated by the parties and reflected in this Agreement, to in-  
crease or decrease the amount of money being contributed to  
any or all of the existing employee benefit plans ar deduc-  
tions, they may do so upon the express conditions precedent  
that:  
{a} the Trustees of any plan affected acknowledge and  
agree in writing;  
(b) | anysuch change shall amend this Agreement and be-  
come effective upon the date requested by the Union, pro-  
vided the Employer is given a 60-day notice of such change.  
if the Union should decide to change its Vacation Plan de-  
duction or dues deduction or assessments, changes shall  
become effective upon the date requested by the Union pro-  
viding the Employer is given a 60-day notice.  
5. If an Employer does not have a bond in the required  
amount, upon written notification of the Union, the Empioyer  
shall remit all contributions and deductions on a weekly ba-  
sis. Said payment shall be sent to the Union who shail for-  
ward the payment to the appropriate depository.  
27  
### ARTICLE VII  
### CONTRACTORS ADMINISTRATIVE FUND  
{43) Each Employer shall pay twenty-six cents ($.26)  
for each hour worked by each employee of the Employer  
within the bargaining unit. Such payments by check shall  
be made payable to the Northwestern Ohio Administra-  
tors, Inc., Trustees as depository, and shall be transmitted  
to the Contractors Administrative Fund, P.O. Box 697, To-  
ledo, OH 43697-0697, no later than the 15th day of the  
month following the calendar month in which the work  
was performed. Reporting forms shall be furnished by the  
Trustees of the Contractors Administrative Fund to the  
Employers and the form shall provide that the twenty-six  
cents ($.26) an hour be made by a separate check pay-  
able to the Northwestern Ohio Administrators, Inc. Trust-  
ees as depository. Delinquent contributions shall be sub-  
ject to such penalties or assessments as the Trustees of  
the Fund may prescribe from time to time.  
{44} Inno event shall the foregoing provisions of this Sec-  
tion be subject to or suitable for grievance and arbitration un-  
der this Agreement.  
(45) The Trustees of said Fund shail comply with atl present  
ang fuiure federdi iaws yoverning ie same.  
(46) The Union shall have no participation or control of any  
kind or degree whatever nor shall the Union be connected in  
any way with the Contractors Administrative Fund.  
(47) The Employer Association party to this Agreement  
agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Union from  
any and all claims made against it arising out of the establish-  
ment and existence of the Fund.  
(48) The Contractors Administrative Fund may be in-  
creased at the option of the Construction Contractors Coun-  
cil.  
28  
### ARTICLE VI?!  
### LEGALITY / NATIONAL JOINT BOARD  
(49) understood that the Associated General Contrac-  
tors of Northwest Ohio, Inc., Labor Relations Division, is act-  
ing only as an agent in the negotiations of this Agreement for  
those individuals, partnerships and corporations who are  
members of the Associated General Contractors of North-  
west Ohio, Inc., Labor Relations Division, and in no eventis  
to be bound as principal or held liable in any manner for any  
breach of this Agreement by any of the Contractors for whom  
itis acting, or any employee of such Contractor. The Gontrac-  
tors who are bound by this Agreement shall not be liable for  
any acts or things done under or pursuant to this Agreement,  
except as such may be contrary to said Agreement in relation  
to its own employees.  
(50) It is the intention of the parties that the terms of this  
Agreement be in conformity with all laws and regulations. in  
the event any provision is declared or determined to be illegal,  
the operation of such clause shall be suspended pending  
negotiation of a legal clause, but the remaining provisions of  
this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  
(51) The Employer and the Union agree to abide by the  
rules and regulations of the Plan for the Settlement of Juris-  
dictionat Disputes, nationally and locally approved by the Build-  
ing Trades AFL-CIO, and, if a dispute arises, to  
refer the matter to the National Joint Board. Should the Asso-  
ciated General Contractors of America and the Building and  
Construction Trades Department, AFL-CIO, agree to a vol-  
untary plan for the settlement of jurisdictional disputes, the  
provisions and procedures of any such plan will become ef-  
fective on the date of such Agreement.  
29  
### ARTICLE |X  
### LABORERS-EMPLOYERS  
### COOPERATION AND EDUCATION TRUST  
(52) Theparties to this Agreement recognize the existence  
of Ohio LECET, Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Edu-  
cation Trust, and jointly pledge to support such trust. The  
Employer will contribute such amounts of money to fund this  
trust as both parties agree to.  
### ARTICLE X  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
{53} The Employer agrees that any portion of the wark cov-  
ered by this contract to be done at the job site shall be done  
either by his own forces in accordance with the terms of this  
Agreement or by subcontractors who have signed an agree-  
ment with Local No, 500.  
### ARTICLE X!  
### SHIFT WORK  
(54) Shift work or starting time agreement for three  
shift operation.  
in the event of three-shift operations, the following provisions  
shall apply:  
The work week will begin at 7:30 a.m. (summer) and 8:00  
a.m. (winter) on Monday and continue through five (8) full 24-  
hour periods.  
The first shift shall work eight (8) hours.  
The second shift shall work seven (7) hours for eight (8) hours  
Pay.  
The third shift shall work seven (7) hours for eight (8) hours  
pay.  
30  
Three-shift operations must run for at least two (2) wark-  
ing days.  
Night only or extra shifts shall be paid eight (8) hours time for  
seven (7) hours worked, when pay is regular pay. When the  
pay is at premium rate, such as double time, then all shifts  
will receive pay only for actual hours worked at the premium  
rates.  
(56) only or extra shift at reguiar pay works  
over seven (7) hours, then the hours over seven (7) shall be  
paid at overtime rates. The eighth (8th) and ninth (9th) hours  
shail be paid at time and one-haif (1-1/2) and from the tenth  
(10th) hour and thereafter shall be paid at double time (2 times).  
### ARTICLE XII  
### REPAIR / REHABILITATION / REMODELING /  
### MAINTENANCE WORK  
(57) = Allrepair, rehabilitation, remodeling and maintenance  
work which is performed in an established operating manu-  
facturing plant, warehouse or commercial enterprise outside  
the regular hours as a service and convenience to the owner,  
will be performed at the base rate of the employee plus  
seventy-five ($.75) cents per nour.  
### ARTICLE X11!  
### REPORTING TIME  
(58) Any new employee who reports for work at the re-  
quest of the Employer shall receive two (2) hours pay if not  
hired by the Employer and put to work, and at no time shail an  
employee be held on the job without being paid for the time  
held.  
(59) Altemployees having worked the previous day up to  
quitting time, reporting on the job uniess notified to the con-  
trary, weather conditions or other causes beyond the  
control permitting, shall be allowed two (2) hours  
pay at the requiar rate. Any employee who of his own choos-  
31  
ing absents himself from work without notifying his Em-  
ployer or Jeaves work of his own choosing before his  
quitting time without notifying his Employer shall not be  
entitled to reporting time.  
(60) [fan employee is put to work and employed for:  
(a) less than two (2) hours, he shall receive two (2) hours  
pay; more than two (2} hours but less than eight (8}, he shall  
receive hours worked rounded up to the nearest hour.  
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee must re-  
main on the job if so requested in order to be entitled to the  
pay as provided above, and an employee shall be paid only  
for the actual time worked if he stops work of his volition.  
(61) Employees shail not lose any time for traveling from  
job to job during working hours. Neither shalt they be cam-  
pelled to travel during the lunch period. All tools must be gath-  
ered and returned during working hours.  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### PARKING PROVISION  
(62) Where free parking is not available, the Employer will  
reimburse an employee a sum, not to exceed $2.00 per day,  
upon presentation of his receipt for nis parking. Tie Empioyer  
has the option to designate the parking area.  
(63) | Proper access shail be provided at all times, allowing  
ingress and egress to the parking area.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### WORK HOURS / HOLIDAYS / BEVERAGES /  
### PAY DAY  
(64) The regular workday shall be eight (8) hours Monday  
through Friday. Starting time shall be 7:30 a.m. April 1st  
through September 30th, with the lunch period between 11:30  
a.m. and 12:00 noon. Starting time shall be 8:00 a.m. Octo-  
ber 1st through March 31st with the lunch period between  
32  
12:00 noan and 12:30 p.m. In the event job conditions  
warrant, the lunch period may be varied, but no employee  
shall be required to work more than four and one half (4-1/  
2) hours before eating lunch.  
(65) {tis understood that at times the Employer's need for  
productivity and efficiency on the job will not allow the crew to  
take lunch at the regular time. Under such circumstances,  
Employers may schedule part of the crew to take lunch be-  
tween one hour before and one hour after the regular lunch  
period. {f for any reason this is not possible and the employee  
is required to work through lunch period, he shail be paid time  
and one-haif (1-1/2) for same and upon his request shall be  
given one-half (1/2) hour of unpaid time to eat lunch.  
(66) The Employer, without penalty, may schedule an eight  
hour workday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.  
provided he gives notice of same to the Northwestern Ohio  
Building and Construction Trades Council before the ciose of  
business on the previous business day.  
(67)(a) FOUR TENS ~An Employer at his option may sched-  
ule four (4) ten (10) hour days at straight pay provided the  
Employer gives notice to the employees and the steward the  
Friday before a four-tens (4-10s) schedule is implemented.  
The four-tens schedule is to be used from Monday through  
Thursday, with Friday (not Saturday) utilized as a make-up  
day in accordance with make-up day requirements. Any work  
performed either before or after the scheduled ten (10) hour  
shift shall be paid at premium time. All shift rates are to be  
recognized in accordance with Article XI of this Agreement.  
Jobs scheduled for four tens shall be worked as four tens for  
the entire calendar week. Start time on four tens shall be  
scheduled between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. Ifa  
holiday falls on Monday through Thursday, it will be consid-  
ered a day worked for premium time purposes.  
{b) Premium rate shall be paid at time and one-half (1  
2) for the eleventh (11th) and twelfth (12th) hours worked Mon-  
day through Thursday, and on Friday when used as a make-up  
day. Double time (2x) shall be paid for all hours worked in  
33  
excess of twelve (12). On Fridays not used as a make-up  
day, time and one-half (1-1/2x) shall be paid for the first  
ten (10) hours worked with double time (2x) paid on all  
hours in excess of ten (10). Saturdays shall be paid at  
time and one-haif (1-1/2x) for the first eight (8) hours  
worked with doubie time (2x) paid for all hours worked in  
excess of eight (8). All hours worked on Sundays and  
Holidays shall be paid at double time (2x).  
(c) Any portion of the Friday make-up day worked that  
exceeds the number of hours lost due to weather, up to a  
maximum of ten (10) hours, will be paid at one and one-half  
times (1-1/2x) the straight time hourly rate. Friday make-up  
days will be scheduled for a minimum of ten (10) hours.  
{68} All work outside the regular working hours, excepting  
variation of lunch period, shall be paid at the premium rate of  
pay. Premium rate shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half  
(1-1/2x) for the first two (2) hours of overtime after eight (8)  
hours of work (9th and 10th hours), double (2x) after ten (10)  
hours. Time and one-half {1-1/2} to be paid the first eight (8)  
hours on Saturday; double time (2x) after eight (8) hours on  
Saturday. Double time (2x) to be paid on Sundays and holi-  
days.  
(a) Saturday Make- up Day - A make-up  
nm Ont mde sash ins  
On a vawroay dur it 1g a WoUn weasees es  
celed due to weather conditions.  
day may be  
o con-  
### NP Nt  
Such work shall be paid at the rate applicable if the work had  
been performed Monday through Friday in the Agreement and  
shall be voluntary on the part of the employees. Employees  
declining such work shall do so without penalty or recrimina-  
tion. Preference for make-up day work shall be given to em-  
ployees affected by the cancellation. The Union will be noti-  
fied prior to Saturday make-up day being worked.  
Any portion of the Saturday make-up day worked that exceeds  
the number of hours lost due to weather will be paid at one  
and one-half (1-1/2) times the straight time hourly rate. Satur-  
day make-up days will be scheduled for a minimum of eight  
(8) hours.  
34  
(69) Employees may drink beverages  
while at work.  
(70) The regular pay week shall start on the first shift Mon-  
day and end before the first shift on the following Monday.  
Pay day shall not be later than the following Thursday.  
(71) The recognized holidays shall be New Year's Day,  
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving  
Day and Christmas Day. If a holiday listed above falls on a  
Sunday, it will be observed on Monday. Local 500 members  
may, at their discretion, observe the day set aside for the ob-  
servance of Martin Luther King’s birthday without recrimina-  
tion or discipline by the Employer.  
(72) tis agreed wages shall be paid weekly in currency or  
by check on the job during regular working hours. Employees  
shall be paid in full wnen employment is terminated. All men  
shall be given their unemployment separation slip when laid  
off or discharged. Any employee having to wait beyond the  
regular quitting time for his money shall be paid at the regular  
overtime rate for said waiting time; however this shail be con-  
strued to apply only to the regular working hours of each day.  
Employees leaving their jobs of their own votition shall receive  
their pay the next regular pay day.  
(73) The above conditions shall apply except that those  
Employers who have an established record of payment of  
tringe benefits to a designated depository for a period of 24  
months shall have the privilege of paying off an employee who  
has been laid off, within 24 hours excluding Saturday, Sun-  
day or holidays, and then by the first working day following, at  
a place designated by the employee from the following alter-  
natives: in the mail to the home of the employee, to the Union  
Hall, or at the office of the Employer.  
35  
### ARTICLE XV!  
### PICKETING  
{74) {a) It shail not be a violation of this Agreement for  
employees covered by this Agreement to refuse to cross  
a picket line and perform work in any instance, where:  
({b) the purpose of the picketing is lawful, and is duly au-  
thorized by the Union so picketing, and  
(c) the establishment thereof is not contrary to or in vio-  
lation of any valid law.  
(d) However, for the good of the industry both parties  
pledge their immediate cooperation to eliminate any of the  
above mentioned possibilities.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### FOREMAN  
{75) The Employer shall designate a foreman whenever  
eight (8) or more men, regardless of the number of crews, are  
engaged by the Employer to perform work coming within the  
jurisdiction of the Union. When there are separate crews of  
six (6) or more employees, a foreman shall be designated for  
wae:  
(76) The wage sate for any foreman selected by the Em-  
ployer shall be $1.00 per hour over the journeyman base rate  
of pay.  
(77) Employer employs more than eighteen (18)  
Laborers on a job, a general foreman shall be named. A gen-  
eral foreman shail receive $2.00 per hour over the highest  
base rate of pay of Laborers under his direction. The general  
foreman shall be a member of Local 500.  
(78) The Laborer foreman shall be selected by the Em-  
ployer. Upon request of the Employer, the Union may under-  
take to furnish individuals with sufficient qualifications and  
experience to the duties and responsibilities of the  
36  
foreman. The designation of the individual as foreman is  
exclusively the responsibility of the Employer.  
(79) However, in any case, an Employer-appointed fore-  
man must be a member of the Laborers’ International Union  
of North America, Local No. 500.  
(80) the job warrants a Laborer foreman, Laborers or  
tenders shall receive orders directly from the foreman. How-  
ever, if the job does not qualify for a foreman, the Laborers or  
tenders shall receive orders directly from the job superinten-  
dent or whomever the Employer may designate.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### AUTHORIZED UNION REPRESENTATIVE  
The duly authorized representative of Local No. 500, if having  
in his possession proper credentials, shall be permitted to  
visit jobs during working hours to interview Employers, stew-  
ards or an employee, but shail in no way interfere with the  
progress of the work. All Employers must furnish business  
agents with proper credentials to contact all jobs.  
(82) The business manager or field representative of the  
Union shall have the right to select an individual to act as a  
steward on the job and whose duty it will be to enforce the  
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Provided  
the individual designated as steward by the Union has the  
qualifications and the experience, he shall remain on the job  
until it has been completed with the exception of one (1) fare-  
man, provided he has been employed as a foreman on the  
project for 30 days or more. It shall be the duty of the busi-  
ness manager or field representative of the Union to inform  
the Employer of the identity of the steward upon his selection.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### STEWARD  
(83) The steward shall be allowed reasonable tims to per-  
form his steward duties with the feast interference to the job.  
The steward’s activities shall be conducted on the  
37  
immediate job site. The steward shail be notified when a  
layoff occurs. When Laborers are working overtime, the  
steward shall be one of them.  
(84) ‘If there is a steward on the project when it is tempo-  
rarily halted or shut down for thirty (30) days or less for any  
reason, said steward will be the first Laborer employee given  
the opportunity to return to work on the same project for the  
same Employer. This provision shall not apply after 24 hours  
notice to the Union Hail, excluding Saturday or Sunday.  
Stewards are to work, except on jobs of unusual size, and  
then shall not wark only after agreement between the Em-  
ployer and business representative involved. (It shall be left to  
each individual Union and Employer to decide if a job is of  
unusual size.) If in the opinion of the Employer the job stew-  
ard is not performing his duties impartially, the Employer or  
his representative shall agree not to lay off, discharge or trans-  
fer the steward on the job until he has discussed the matter  
with the business manager or his representative, who shall  
meet for such discussion on the job site within twenty-four  
(24) hours after notification to the Union office, Saturday, Sun-  
day and holidays excluded, and adjust the difficulty to the  
mutual satisfaction of both parties.  
(85) The steward shall be allowed to accompany any mem-  
ber of the Union who is seriqusly injured to see thal proper  
medical attention is given and the employee’s welfare taken  
care of at no Jost time. If injured employee has to be taken to  
the haspital or to his home, the steward will furnish both com-  
pany and Union with a complete report.  
### ARTICLE X X  
### DISMISSAL  
(86) Noemployee shall be dismissed by the Employer or  
his representative or penalized by the Union by reason of  
making a Complaint or giving evidence in respect to an al-  
leged violation of this Agreement.  
38  
### ARTICLE X XI  
### GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION  
(87) Alt disputes, claims or grievances regarding the  
interpretation or application of the existing labor agree-  
ment shall first be taken up between the employee in-  
volved and / or the job steward and / or the business  
representative of the Union and the Employer and / or his  
representative. These parties shall attempt to settle the  
grievance. No grievance shail be filed or processed on  
facts or events which have occurred prior to seven (7)  
calendar days before the grievance is filed.  
(88) Inthe event a settlement is not reached, the dispute,  
claim or grievance shall be referred by either party in writing,  
on an approved form, to the Joint Labor Reiations Board of  
the parties to this contract within three (3) regular working  
days, and such board shall take action within seven (7) calen-  
dar days.  
### ARTICLE X XII  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE  
(89) the policy of the Employer to prohibit the manu-  
facture, sale, possession or use of a controlled substance in  
the workplace. All employees are required to comply with this  
policy and shall notify the Employer of any conviction for a  
criminal offense which occurred at the workplace during work-  
ing hours involving a criminal drug statute. This notice must  
be given within five (5) days of the conviction.  
(90) The Employer reserves the right to discipline, up to  
possible termination, any employee convicted of a criminal  
drug offense which occurred at the workplace during working  
hours and employees so convicted may be required to partici-  
pate in an approved drug abuse program at no cost to the  
Employer. Discipline may also be imposed and criminal pros-  
ecution initiated for the possession or use of a controlled sub-  
stance tn the workplace. This notice is being issued to com-  
ply with the requirements of the Drug Free Workplace Act,  
P.L. 100-440.  
39  
(91) The NWOGLCA Substance Abuse Policy shall be  
in effect for all bargaining unit employees working under  
the collective bargining agreement in Laborers’ Local 500.  
### ARTICLE X X11!  
### PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS  
(92) requires an employee to have a physi-  
cal examination, the Employer shall pay the cost of the physi-  
cal examination and will pay the employee’s regular rate of  
pay for all time needed to have the physica! examination.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### WORKERS’ COMP. / UNEMPLOYMENT INS. /  
### SOCIAL SECURITY  
(93) Employers shall provide protection for employees in  
conformity with the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation  
Act of Ohio, unemployment insurance and Social Security.  
{94) The Employer at all times must carry Workers’ Com-  
pensation, Social Security and unernployment insurance, and  
must have sufficient funds on deposit to meet all payrolls. In  
cases where coverage is not carried, this shall be sufficient  
cause for refusal to work for the Employer not carrying pro-  
tection.  
### ARTICLE X XV  
### JOB SITE FACILITIES  
(95) The Employer shall provide a suitable shanty where  
employees May dress, keep their clothes and eat their lunches.  
Said shanty or shelter house shall meet necessary sanitation  
requirements and shall be heated and made comfortable to a  
reasonable degree. Suitable toilet facilities shall be provided  
on all jobs.  
(96) if employees are requested to work in inclement  
weather, they shall be fumished with ample protection by the  
Employer, namely, raincoats, boots, rubber pants, slickers, etc.  
40  
(97) | Anadequate supply of potable water shall be provided  
in all places of employment.  
(98) |The Employer shall furnish ample protective clothing,  
namely: raincoats, knee or overboots, headgear, etc. when  
employees are required to work in mud, concrete or inclem-  
ent weather or any other wet conditions. Protective clothing  
shall be issued to the individual for the duration of the job and  
shall not be reissued until it has been thoroughly sanitized  
and dried. Protective clothing issued may be chargeable to  
the employee if lost or damaged beyond ordinary wear and  
deteriaration.  
### ARTICLE XX V1  
### ARBITRATION  
(99) This Agreement between the Northwestem Ohio Build-  
ing Trades Council and Associated General Contractors of  
Northwest Ohio, Inc., Labor Retations Division, requiring the  
arbitration of all disputes, dated June 1, 1939, with all amend-  
ments and changes, together with all rules and regulations  
for its enforcement, is by incorporated into and made  
a part of this Agreement, the same as if specifically set forth  
herein.  
### ARTICLE XXVI1  
### TERMINATION FOR  
### NON-ASSOCIATION CONTRACTORS  
(100) The Union will notify the Association which is sig-  
natory to this Agreement of the name and address of any  
contractor who becomes signatory to or bound by this Agree-  
ment during the term of this Agreement. The notice shall be  
given in writing within seven (7) days of the time any such  
contractor becomes signatory or bound hereto. The notice  
shall include a copy of the signature page of the contract  
or the assent card and, if not noted thereon, a statement  
of the date the contract or assent card was signed or the  
date the contractor became bound.  
41  
(101) Within seven days of the receipt of a notice  
from the Union of its intent to terminate or modify this  
Agreement, the Association will notify all such Contrac-  
tors of whom the Association has been notified by the  
Union. Each such Contractor shall have 30 days from the  
date the Association received the notice of intent to termi-  
nate or modify to advise the Union in writing of its intent to  
negotiate separately for a renewal agreement.  
(102) In the event any such Contractor fails to advise  
the Union of its intent to negotiate separately within the time  
period set forth above, such Contractor shali be deemed and  
presumed to agree to the terms and agreement arrived at in  
negotiations between the Union and the Association and to  
be bound by the Collective Bargaining Agreement resulting  
therefrom.  
(103) The provisions of this Section shall operate for  
successive Collective Bargaining Agreements until such time  
as the Employer or Union gives timely notice that said party  
desires to negotiate separately. Said notice shall be given within  
the time periods provided in the termination clause of this  
Agreement or any successive Collective Bargaining Agree-  
ment,  
### ARTICLE XAVITI  
### HEALTH & WELFARE AND PENSION PLAN  
(104) The parties hereto, as part of this Agreement, agree  
to abide by the terms of the Laborers’ District Council Health  
and Welfare and Pension Plans.  
(105) Upon agreement between the Emptoyer and the  
Union to establish terms of a Defined Contribution Pension  
Plan, the Employer shall allocate the amount of money re-  
quested by the Union from the base hourly wage rate to es-  
tablish a Defined Contribution Pension Plan. The Employer  
shall appoint an equal number of Trustees to establish and  
serve on this Defined Contribution Pension Plan’s Board of  
Trustees.  
42  
### ARTICLE X X!X  
### WORKING RULES  
(106) it is expressly understood that working rules, by-  
laws, conditions, practices or customs, unless same are spe-  
cifically mentioned in this Agreement, shall not be interpreted  
as being a part hereof.  
(107) Should any working rule herein contained conflict  
in any manner with any Article in the Contract, then the Article  
shall prevail.  
(108) Construction work not covered by this Agreement  
shall be governed by the wages and working conditions con-  
tained in agreements which the Union has with the Employ-  
ers in such other divisions of the construction industry. This  
shall not apply to jobs of one day’s duration or less.  
### ARTICLE X X X  
### MORE FAVORABLE TERMS  
(109) If the Union turnishes workers to any Employer  
under any more favorable terms or conditions, including wage  
rates, than those contained herein for the work covered by  
this Agreement, the Union agrees that such more favorable  
terms and conditions shall automatically be extended to the  
Employer for that project or projects.  
### ARTICLE XX Xf  
### OFF-THE-JOB TRAINING PROGRAM  
(110) Having endorsed a Building Trades Training Pro-  
gram as approved by the Office of Economic Opportunity, the  
parties agree to amend this Contract to the extent necessary  
tn order to implement said program.  
{1411} The parties to this Agreement shall establish a com-  
mittee which will study the development of an off-the-job train-  
ing program using rates and procedures approved by Local  
43  
500, the Laborers’ International Union and the Associated  
General Contractors of Northwestern Ohio, Inc., Labor Rela-  
tions Division. Such rates shall not be used for on-site con-  
struction.  
{142} The parties to this Agreement will comply with the  
Federal and State Executive Orders on Equal Employment  
Opportunity.  
(113} The parties establish an apprentice program.  
Ali costs associated with the establishment and the on-going  
training shall be paid by the Employer. The Standards of Ap-  
prenticeship shall be into this Master Agreement  
__ as if fully written herein. The Apprentice Committee shall es-  
tablish the apprentice wage rates and the number of appren-  
tices allowed.  
### ARTICLE X X X11  
### APPRENTICES  
(114) All matters pertaining to apprentices shall be gov-  
ered by the terms and conditions of the Apprenticeship Stan-  
dards to which the Union and Employers are bound as if futly  
rewritten herein. a  
(115} inorder to assure proper training for apprentices, the  
following ratio of journeymen to apprentices shall prevail:  
The ratio of apprentices to journey workers as a total of each  
employer's Laborers in the Union’s jurisdiction shall be:  
One (1} apprentice after one (1) journey worker employed;  
Two (2) apprentices after five (5) journey workers employed;  
Three (3) apprentices after nine (9) journey workers employed;  
One (1) apprentice for every four (4) journey workers  
employed thereafter.  
The ratio shall be consistent with the proper supervision,  
44  
training, safety, continuity of employment, and applicable  
provisions in the collective bargaining agreement.  
(116) Apprentice Wages - Apprentices shall be paid a  
progressively increasing schedule of wages consistent with  
skills and knowledge acquired. The rate for each period of the  
apprenticeship is expressed as a percentage oi the skilled  
Construction Craft Labor journey worker’s rate specified in  
the collective bargaining agreement. The approximate time  
interval for each period is indicated; it may be adjusted for  
individual apprentices making accelerated progress, or ex-  
tended as may be required for unsatisfactory progress. Such  
adjusted periods may be made only by JATC action. The  
schedule that follows provides for four equal periods of ap-  
proximately 1,000 hours of work and training each period:  
First 50% of journey worker's rate  
Second period - 60% of journey worker’s rate  
Third period - 70% of journey worker's rate  
Fourth period 90% of journey worker's rate  
In no instance will the starting rate be less than the hourly  
minimum of the Fair Labor Standards Act. The apprentice  
rate shall be based on the collective bargaining agreement  
uniess a higher rate is specified by applicable federal or state  
law or regulation. All apprentices will be entitled to all fringe  
benefits provided in the collective bargaining agreement.  
45  
### ARTICLE X XXIII  
### EMPLOYEE COMPETITION  
(117) It is specifically agreed that no worker (hourly  
employee) a member of the Union, shatl do any work in com-  
petition with an Employer signing this Agreement.  
Executed at Toledo, Ohio, as of the 1st day of July, 2003.  
Associated General Contractors  
of Northwest Ohio, Inc.  
Labor Relations Division  
/s/ William J. Brennan  
Local No. 500, Laborers’  
International Union Of  
North America  
/s/ Steven T. Thomas  
Signed and Approved by  
Laborers’ District Council Of Ohio  
isi Jack L. Snaw  
46  
### ADDENDUM A  
### HAZARDOUS WASTE REMOVAL AND LEAD  
### ABATEMENT  
For Laborers working in an exclusive or “hot” area with toxic  
or hazardous materials, one of the following personal protec-  
tive equipment ensembies wilt be required for necessary pro-  
tection against toxic contaminants.  
LEVEL A (Wage Group A) io be worn only in established  
“safe zones” may consist of, from normal work clothes to nor-  
mail skin protection such as gloves, face shields, goggles,  
coveralls and occasionally respiratory protection.  
LEVEL B (Wage Group B) protective equipment includes a  
protective suit and an Air Purifying Respirator (APR) with the  
appropriate filter canisters. The ensemble is used when the  
contaminants are reliably known not to be hazardous to the  
skin and not IDLH (Immediately Dangerous ta Life or Health}  
and correct filter protection is available. This ensemble offers  
adequate protection for many jobs.  
LEVEL C (Wage Group C} protective equipment includes a  
chemically resistant spiash suit and SCBA or Airline Respi-  
rator. This ensemble is required when the situation is very  
hazardous, such as oxygen deficient atmospheres, IDLH at-  
mospheres, or confined space entries, but the risk of skin  
exposure is not as great as in Level D situations. The Level C  
ensemble gives the second highest leval of protection.  
LEVEL D (Wage Group D) protective equipment is required  
when the area has been determined to contain extremely toxic  
contaminants or contaminants unknown but may be expected  
to be extremely toxic and / or Immediately Dangerous to Lite  
and Heaith (IDLH). This ensemble includes a fully encapsu-  
lated chamical suit (moon suit}, Self Contained Breathing  
Apparatus (SCBA), or Airline Fed Respirator, and various  
types and numbers of boots and gloves; cool vests and voice  
activated radios are optional equipment sometimes wom. Level  
D ensembtes provide the highesi tevel of protection from con-  
taminants, but places the greatest physical and mental stress  
on the worker.  
47  
### ADDENDUMB  
### ADDITIONAL SPECIALIZED JURISDICTION  
Asbestos, Lead and Hazardous Waste Removal  
The removal, abatement or encapsulation of asbestos, lead  
and / or toxic and hazardous waste or materials within the  
Laborers’ jurisdiction shail include the following:  
The erection, moving, servicing and dismantling of all enclo-  
sures, Scaffoiding, barricades, etc., and the operation of aii  
tools and equipment (including generators, compressors and  
vacuums) normally used in the removal or abatement of as-  
bestos, lead and toxic and hazardous waste or materials; the  
labeling, bagging, cartoning, crating or otherwise packaging  
af materiats for disposal; the transportation and disposal of alt  
such materials to any authorized disposal; as well as the clean  
up of the work site and all other work incidental to the re-  
moval, abatement or encapsulation of asbestos, iead or toxic  
and hazardous waste materials.  
Cathodic Protection Installations  
This group will include all construction and demolition work in  
conjunction with cathodic protection, including but not limited  
to, all testing, welding, cleaning (by any made or method),  
drilling of holes, of anchors and eiectrical wire,  
mounting of rectifiers, running conduit and pulling wires to  
connect to DC side of rectifier. Installation of conductive paste,  
spray or rofl on aff necessary coatings or paint, instafling an-  
odes and conductive gels. Loading, unloading, transporting,  
handling, sizing, fitting and placement of alt materiais as well  
as operating any and all necessary equipment for same.  
43  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH  
### AMERICA  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 500, AFL-CIO  
2270 Ashiand Ave. Toledo, Ohio 43620  
(419) 243-3279  
### ACCEPTANCE MEMORANDUM BETWEEN  
### LABORERS’ LOCAL NO. 500  
and  
(Employer)  
In consideration of the benefits to be derived and other good and  
valuable consideration, the undersigned Employer, although not  
a member of the Associated General Contractors of Northwest  
Ohio, Inc., Labor Relations Division, does hereby join it, adopt  
and accept the Collective Bargaining Agreement heretofore made  
by the said Association and Laborers’ Loca! No. 500, Toledo,  
Ohio, and agrees to be bound by al! terms and conditions of said  
agreement, and agrees to pay the wage rates therein set forth,  
including any provisions therein contained for contributions to  
insurance funds or programs in which the Union participates for  
the benefit of employees represented by it, and does subscribe  
to the Declaration of Trusts or Trust under which said programs  
are administered and agrees to be bound thereby and by any  
amendments thereto, and agrees to make contributions as re-  
quired therein, and authorizes the said parties to name Trustees  
and successor Trustees to administer said Fund or Funds, and  
hereby ratifies and accepts such Trustees and the terms and  
conditions of said Trusts as fully and completely as if made by  
the undersigned.  
   
   
   
   
   
Employer  
Address  
City State Zip Code  
Telephone No. ( )  
FAXNo.(___}  
   
Authorized Representative and Title:  
   
   
Date  
Ohio Unemployment Compensation No.  
Workers’ Compensation No,  
   
   
   
Steven T. Thomas, Business Manager- Local 500  
49  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH  
### AMERICA  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 500, AFL-CIO  
2270 Ashland Ave. Toledo, Ohio 43620  
(419) 243-3279  
### ACCEPTANCE MEMORANDUM BETWEEN  
### LABORERS’ LOCAL NO. 500  
and  
   
(Employer)  
In consideration of the benefits to be derived and other good and  
valuable consideration, the undersigned Employer, although not  
a member of the Associated General Contractors of Northwest  
Ohio, Inc., Labor Relations Division, does hereby join it, adopt  
and accept the Collective Bargaining Agreement heretofore made  
by the said Association and Laborers’ Locai No. 500, Toledo,  
Ohio, and agrees to be bound by all terms and conditions of said  
agreement, and agrees to pay the wage rates therein set forth,  
including any provisions therein contained for contributions to  
insurance funds or programs in which the Union participates for  
the benefit of employees represented by it, and does subscribe  
to the Declaration of Trusts or Trust under which said programs  
are administered and agrees to be bound thereby and by any  
amendments thereto, and agrees to make contributions as re-  
quired therein, and authorizes the said parties to name Trustees  
and successor Trustees to administer said Fund or Funds, and  
hereby ratifies and accepts such Trustees and the terms and  
conditions of said Trusts as fully and completely as if made by  
the undersigned.  
   
   
Employer  
Address  
City State Zip Code  
Telephone No. ( )  
### FAX  
Authorized Representative and Title:  
   
   
Date  
Ohio Unemployment Compensation No.  
Workers’ Compensation No.  
Steven T. Thomas, Business Manager- Local 500  
51  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH  
### AMERICA  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 500, AFL-CIO  
2270 Ashland Ave. Toledo, Ohio 43620  
(419) 243-3279  
### ACCEPTANCE MEMORANDUM BETWEEN  
### LABORERS’ LOCAL NO. 500  
and  
(Employer)  
In consideration of the benefits to be derived and other good and  
valuable consideration, the undersigned Employer, although not  
a member of the Associated General Contractors of Northwest  
Ohio, Labor Relations Division, does hereby join it, adopt  
and accept the Collective Bargaining Agreement heretofore made  
by the said Association and Laborers’ Local No. 500, Toledo,  
Ohio, and agrees to be bound by all terms and conditions of said  
agreement, and agrees to pay the wage rates therein set forth,  
including arty provisions therein contained for contributions to  
insurance funds or programs in which the Union participates for  
the benefit of employees represented by it, and does subscribe  
to the Declaration of Trusts or Trust under which said programs  
are administered and agrees to be bound thereby and by any  
amendments thereto, and agrees to make contributions as re-  
quired therein, and authorizes the said parties to name Trustees  
and successor Trustees to administer said Fund or Funds, and  
hereby ratifies and accepts such Trustees and the terms and  
conditions of said Trusts as fully and completely as if made by  
the undersigned.  
Employer  
Address ~. —_—  
City  
Telephone No. ( )  
FAX No. (___)  
Authorized Representative and Title:  
Date  
Chio Unemployment Compensation No.  
Workers’ Compensation No.  
Steven T. Thomas, Business Manager- Local 500  
53  
### NOTES  
### NOTES  
### NOTES  
56  
   
William J. Brennan, Secretary  
Associated General Contractors  
of Northwest Ohio, Inc.  
Labor Relations Division  
1845 Collingwood Boulevard  
Toledo, Ohio 43624-1049  
Phone: (419) 241-3601  
Fax: (419) 241-8636  
E-Mail: wbrennan @cccouncil.com  
The cost of printing this building contract  
agreement between Laborers’ Local No. 500  
and the Associated General Contractors of  
Northwest Ohio Inc., Labor Relations Division  
has been paid by Ohio LECET  
in pursuit of labor-management cooperation  
- ...  
OMS Anne ~  
  
   
Jobe  
Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust  
88 North Fifth Street * Columbus, Ohio 43215-3232  
oe