2012- 2016  
Laborers- Engineering  
Agreement  
### AGC MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT  
### FOR  
### ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF AMERICA  
### SAN DIEGO CHAPTER, INC.  
### AND  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF NORTH AMERICA, LOCAL NO.  
### EFFECTIVE  
JULY 1, 2012 THROUGH J UNE 30, 2016  
    
Ss By  
Associated General Contractors  
San Diego Chapter, Inc. \ J  
2012- 2016  
Laborers- Engineering  
Agreement  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Click on any heading below to view test  
### SECTION # DESCRIPTION PAGE #  
### PARTTES TO AGREEMENT/PURPOSE. 1  
### SECTION 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS 3  
### SECTION 2 TERM, TERMINATION AND 4  
### SECTION 3 AREA COVERED 4.  
### SECTION 4 WORK COVERED BY THIS 4-15  
### SECTION 5 UNION 16  
### SECTION 6 OBLIGATIONS OF EMPLOY 16-17  
### SECTION 7 EXISTING AND OTHER 17-18  
### SECTION 8 UNION SECURITY 18  
### SECTION 9 UNION REPRESENTATIVES. 19  
### SECTION 10 STEWARD 19-21  
### SECTION 11 SAFETY 21-22  
### SECTION 12 INJURY 22-23  
### SECTION 13 DISCHARGE. 23  
### SECTION 14 HIRING. 2A-34  
### SECTION 15 FQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY 34-35  
### SECTION 16 JURISDICTIONAL 35-36  
### SECTION 17 STRIKES AND 36  
### SECTION 18 PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT OF  
### GRIEVANCES AND DISPUTES. 36-41  
### SECTION 19 PAY MENT OF WAGES. 41-42  
### SECTION 20 WORK PERIODS AND WORK 42-51  
### SECTION 21 HOLIDAY 91-52  
### SECTION 22 TRANSPORTATION o2  
### SECTION 23 o2  
### SECTION 24 FOREMAN 92-53  
### SECTION 25 LABORERS SPECIAL CRAFT WORKING  
### RULES AND WAGE 04-66  
### SECTION 26 TRUST FUNDS. 66-71  
### SECTION 27 SUBCONTRACTING, EMPLOY EE RIGHTS,  
### UNION STANDARDS AND WORK 71-74  
### SECTION 28 SAN DIEGO CONSTRUCTION ADVANCEMENT  
FUND 2008 75-76  
### SECTION 29 PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS COVERED BY THE  
### DAVIS-BACON ACT  
### SECTION 30 CREW COMPOSITION AND SIZE.  
### SECTION 31 ADA  
Associated General Contractors  
San Diego Chapter, Inc.  
   
### SECTION 32  
### SECTION 33  
### SECTION 34  
### SECTION 35  
### SECTION 36  
2012- 2016  
Laborers- Engineering  
Agreement  
### GENERAL SAVINGS 78  
### APPRENTICESHIP 79-81  
### & FRINGE BENEFITS  
### DELINQUENCY & COLLECTION  
### PROCEDURE. 81-87  
### PRE-JOB CONFERENCE. 87  
### SIGNATURES. 88  
### ATTACHMENT 89-90  
Associated General Contractors  
San Diego Chapter, Inc.  
   
### AGC MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT  
### FOR ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA  
### SAN DIEGO CHAPTER, INC.  
### AND  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA DISTRICT COUNCIL OF LABORERS  
### AND IT’S AFFILIATED  
### LOCAL NO. 89  
### PARTIES TO AGREEMENT  
This Agreement is entered into this 1st day of July 2012, by and between signatory  
members of Associated General Contractors of America San Diego Chapter, Inc.,  
hereinafter referred to as the CONTRACTORS; and the Southern California District Council  
of Laborers, on behalf of itself and on behalf of its affiliated Local No. 89; hereinafter  
referred to as the Union.  
### PURPOSE  
The Contractors are engaged in construction work in Southern California and, in the  
performance of their present and future operations, are employing and will employ  
workmen under the terms of this Agreement. The Contractors want to be assured of their  
ability to procure workmen in the geographic area hereinafter defined in Section 3, in  
sufficient number and with sufficient skill to assure continuity of work in the completion of  
their construction work. The Union and the Contractors, by this Agreement, intend to  
establish uniform rates of pay, hours of employment and working conditions for the  
employees covered by this Agreement. The Union and the Contractors further intend by  
this Agreement to provide, establish and put into practice an effective method for the  
2012-2016 1 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
settlement of misunderstandings, disputes or grievances, with the thought in mind that the  
Contractors are assured continuity of operation and the employees of the Contractors are  
assured continuity of employment and industrial peace is maintained.  
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive  
position of the parties within the industry during the terms of this Agreement. Consistent  
with that recognition, the parties will continually monitor the effectiveness of this Agreement  
relative to specific geographic or market areas and will endeavor, by mutual agreement; to  
initiate such modifications to the Agreement during its term as may be necessary to assure  
the work opportunities of the employees and the competitive position of the individual  
employers.  
To effectively implement the foregoing, the parties to the Agreement hereby  
establish a Committee composed of two (2) representatives appointed by the Southern  
California District Council of Laborers and two (2) representatives appointed by the  
Associated General Contractors of America, San Diego Chapter, Inc. This Committee will  
review requests for changes in the terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement that may  
be necessary to preserve work opportunities for employees and individual employers  
covered by the Agreement. The Committee is authorized to recommend such changes as it  
deems to be in the best interest of the parties to the Agreement, which changes, if  
approved as set for the below, shall not be subject to Section 7 of the Agreement.  
Approval of any change shall not be subject to Section 16 or 17 of the Agreement,  
and shall require a written agreement approved and executed by duly authorized  
representatives of the Southern California District Council of Laborers and the Associated  
General Contractors of America, San Diego Chapter, Inc.  
This Committee shall be empowered to develop rules and procedures for its  
deliberations.  
2012-2016 2 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### SECTION 1  
### GENERAL PROVISIONS  
A. Definitions:  
» F The terms "Contractor" or "Employer," as used herein, shall refer to an  
Employer party to or bound by this Agreement.  
2. The term "Association," as used herein, shall refer to the Associated  
General Contractors of America, San Diego Chapter, Inc. The Contractors and the Union  
recognize and agree that the Association is the administrative representative of the  
Contractors, and the Association has no signatory status by the terms of this Agreement or  
otherwise.  
3, The term "Union,'’ as used herein, shall refer to the Southern California  
District Council of Laborers and its affiliated Local Union 89 which has jurisdiction over the  
work in the territory covered by this Agreement. The term "Local Union,” as used herein,  
shall refer to Local Union 89, which has jurisdiction over the work in the territory covered  
by the agreement.  
4. The term "Workman" or "Workmen,” as used herein, shall refer to a  
person, or persons, in the labor market who are not employed.  
5. The term "Employee(s)" as used herein, shall refer to the employed person,  
or persons, working in the jurisdiction covered by this Agreement.  
6. The term "Superintendent" as used herein shall refer to an employee who  
does not work with the tools of the trade and who may supervise employees working at  
the trade.  
2012-2016 3 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
7. All personal nouns and pronouns refer to the male and female gender.  
8. The "Method of Delivery of Written Notices,” required by this Agreement  
shall be satisfied by one of the following means of delivery: email, fax, certified mail or  
regular mail.  
### SECTION 2  
### TERM TERMINATION  
### AND RENEWAL  
The term of this Agreement is July 1, 2012, to June 30, 2016, and from year to  
year thereafter unless either the Union or the Association gives written notice received by  
the other not less than sixty (60) days prior to June 30, 2016, or sixty (60) days prior to  
June 30 of any subsequent year, of a desire to change, amend, modify or terminate the  
Agreement.  
### SECTION 3  
### AREA COVERED  
The area covered by this Agreement shall be San Diego County, California, and  
San Clemente Island, California.  
### SECTION 4  
### WORK COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT  
A, 1. The Contractor may serve as a Construction Manager; Developer; Builder; or  
Owner-Builder. The provisions of this contract apply to the Contractor only when the  
Contractor is performing with his own forces or when the Contractor subcontracts the  
2012-2016 4 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
performance of, the construction, alteration, modification, improvement, or repair, in whole  
or part of a structure, or other jobsite construction work within the recognized jurisdiction of  
the Union. The agreement shall apply to and cover all hours of employment of each  
employee performing jobsite work.  
2. This Agreement is made for and on behalf of and shall be binding upon all  
eligible persons, firms or corporations who at the time of execution of this Agreement are,  
or during the term hereof become, eligible members of the Association; provided however,  
the Union may object to any person, firm or corporation becoming bound after the effective  
date of this Agreement by giving written notice of such objection to the appropriate  
Association within five business days of the Association's notice to the Union of a new  
member pursuant to Section 6 of this Agreement. In the event the Union timely objects,  
the person, firm or corporation shall not become bound to this Agreement. The Union  
shall not dispatch workers or permit employees to work for a person, firm limited liability  
company, partnership, joint venture or other legal entity who as a “broker,” or  
subcontractor furnishes workers to perform work covered by this agreement, or who  
arranges for workers to perform work covered by this agreement, or who arranges for  
workers to be placed upon the payroll of a Contractor. A “broker” is a person, firm,  
Limited Liability Company, partnership, joint venture or other legal entity, including a  
Contractor or Subcontractor, who hire or arranges for the hire of jobsite employees but  
does not supervise or control their work or maintain the equipment they use.  
3. Each individual Contractor, whether corporate or other legal entity, or its  
successor, shall be liable under, subject to and bound by this Agreement. It is agreed that  
the wages, hours and working conditions of this Agreement are the wages, hours and  
working conditions in the area covered by this Agreement.  
2012-2016 5 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
4. This Agreement is separate and distinct from and independent of all other  
Agreements entered into between the Union and other Contractor organizations,  
irrespective of any similarity between this Agreement and any such other Agreements, and  
no acts or things done by the parties to such Agreements or notices given pursuant to the  
provisions hereof, shall change or modify this Agreement or in any manner affect the  
contractual relationships of the parties herein, except as otherwise provided in the Section  
covering existing and other Agreements  
B, This Agreement shall cover all engineering work coming within the claimed  
jurisdiction of the Laborers’ International Union of North America, including the following:  
1: lt shall cover work on heavy highway and engineering construction, including  
the construction of, in whole or in part, or in improvement or modification thereof, including  
any structure or operations which are incidental thereto, the assembly, operation,  
maintenance and repair of all equipment, vehicles, and other facilities, including helicopters  
used in connection with the performance of the aforementioned work and services and  
including without limitation the following types or classes of work:  
2. Street and highway work, grading and paving, excavation of earth and rock,  
including non-destructive utility line location (hydrovac operations), grade separations,  
elevated highways, viaducts, bridges, abutments, retaining walls, subways, airport grading,  
surfacing and drainage, electric transmission line and conduit projects, communication and  
conduit installation, fiberoptic installation, blowing, splicing, testing and related work for  
telephone, T.V. or other communication transmission through conduit, encasement of  
conduit by concrete, slurry or other materials, water supply, water development,  
reclamation, irrigation, draining and flood control projects, water mains, pipe lines,  
sanitation and sewer projects, dams, aqueducts, canals, reservoirs, intakes, channels,  
2012-2016 6 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
levees, dikes, revetments, quarrying of breakwater or riprap stone, foundations, pile driving,  
piers, locks, river and harbor projects, breakwaters, jetties, dredging, tunnels.  
3% In connection with Laborers work, the construction, erection, alteration,  
repair, modification, demolition, addition or improvement, in whole or in part, of any  
incidental building structure, including oil or gas refineries and incidental structures,  
weatherization, green energy work, geothermal, wind, water, solar energy installations and  
appurtenances thereto, also including any grading, excavation, or similar operations which  
are incidental thereto, or the installation, operation, maintenance and repair of equipment,  
and other facilities used in connection with the performance of such building construction  
except where such structures are an incidental or supplemental part of highway and  
engineering construction, as defined in this Section.  
4, All work involved in laying and installation of pipe outside of an incidental  
building, structure or other work, regardless of the material used or substance conveyed.  
a All work involved in laying and installation of pipe both outside and within  
sewage filtration and water treatment plants, including, but not limited to, mechanical and  
pressurized pipe within.  
6. All work involved in laying and installation of landscaping irrigation pipe.  
7. All work assigned to the Laborers in connection with the repairing of power  
tools on the jobsite. All work performed in the Contractor's warehouses, shops or yards  
which have been particularly provided or set up to handle work in connection with a job or  
project covered by the terms of this Agreement and all of the production or fabrication of  
materials by the Contractor for use on the project shall be subject to the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement.  
2012-2016 7 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
8. Repairs necessitated by defects of material or workmanship or adjustments  
of newly purchased and/or installed equipment or machinery will not be subject to this  
Agreement when such repairs and/or adjustments are made by the manufacturer thereof  
or his agents or employees pursuant to the terms of a manufacturer's guarantee and the  
Union will not hamper such manufacturer or his agents or employees on such exempted  
work.  
9. lt is agreed that where demolition work is included under the terms of the  
job specifications of the General Contractor or subcontractor such work, including the  
salvage of the material from the buildings to be demolished, as limited by the definition of  
"Demolition Laborer, the Cleaning of Brick and Lumber" contained in the wage scale, shall  
be performed by a person, firm or corporation signatory to this Agreement.  
Subject to Paragraphs B, D and F of this Section, it is agreed that Laborers’ work shall  
include but not be limited to:  
10. All work necessary to tend all other building trades craftsmen, including  
stripping of concrete forms, handling and raising of slip forms, sewer cleaners, gardening,  
horticulture, landscaping, trackmen (construction, maintenance and repair), cleanup of  
debris, grounds and buildings, the unloading of trucks and moving of equipment and all  
General Laborers’ work. The hoisting of rods except when a derrick or outrigger operated  
by other .than hand power is used is claimed as Laborers’ work, also the erection and  
dismantling of scaffolding regardless of height.  
+4. All work in connection with excavation for incidental building and other  
construction including digging of trenches, piers, foundations and holes; digging, lagging,  
sheeting, cribbing and bracing of foundations, holes, caissons and cofferdams, manning,  
setting and moving all manually movable pumps.  
2012-2016 8 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
12. — All work in connection with concrete work, including all concrete tilt-up,  
including chipping and grinding, patching, sandblasting, water blasting, mixing, handling,  
shoveling, rough strike-off of concrete, concrete that may be hand worked by any method  
or means, conveying, pouring, handling of the chute from readymix trucks, walls, slabs,  
decks, floors, foundations, footings, curbs, gutters and sidewalks, concrete pumps and  
similar type machines, grout pumps, nozzlemen, (including gunmen and potmen), vibrating,  
guniting and otherwise applying concrete whether done by hand or any other process; and  
wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling concrete forms and false work, cutting of  
concrete piles and filling of cracks by any method on any surface and Laborers work in  
connection with all painting, coloring, staining, coating or adding a color by any means to  
concrete slabs, concrete structures, bridges, highway dividers, walls, concrete block, brick,  
application not limited to hand or machine spraying.  
13. Preparation, installation and application of epoxy, including the setting of  
dowels.  
14. —_ All work in the excavation, grading, preparation, concreting, asphalt and  
mastic paving, paving, ramming, curbing, flagging, traffic control by any method, and laying  
of other stone materials, and surfacing of streets, ways, courts, underpasses, overpasses  
and bridges.  
1 All work in connection with the operation of spreader boxes, such as  
True-Lay, Rola Pavers and Laytons or similar type models, including but not limited to  
shoveling and shifting material and cleaning of boxes.  
16. All work in connection with the cutting of streets and ways for all purposes,  
including aligning by any method, digging of trenches, manholes, etc., handling and  
2012-2016 9 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
conveying of all materials for same; concrete of same; and the backfilling, grading and  
resurfacing of same.  
17. All Laborers work in connection with the construction of caissons,  
cofferdams, subways (except as covered by the Tunnel Master Labor Agreement),  
aqueducts, irrigation water lines, culverts, flood controls, hydraulic mulch, preservation of  
existing vegetation, soil binders, geotextile mats, plastic covers and erosion control  
blankets, sediment barriers, steambank stabilization, silt fence, and both metallic and  
non-metallic drains and sewers, any type of conduit, no-joint pipe, including the cribbing,  
lagging, bracing, sheeting and checking grade for pipe laying, trench jacking and handling  
of hand-guided lagging hammers on all open trenches and ditches.  
18. — All work in connection with the shoring and under-pinning, including cutting,  
fitting, placing and raising, of all structures, soldier beams and sheet beams.  
19. — All work in connection with drilling, all work of loading, placing and blasting  
of all powder and explosives of whatever type, regardless of the method used for such  
loading and placing. All power drills (whether core, diamond, wagon, track, multiple unit or  
other) and any and all types of mechanical drills without regard to motive power, size of  
drill bit, or self-contained nature of the machine.  
20. All helper work on water well drills.  
21. ‘All work involved in the construction, replacement, alteration or modification  
of all rail lines, including salvage, demolition and take up, on main lines, siding, service  
linés or on any structures part of or appurtenant to such facilities, whether located on  
railroad, public or private property and rights of way of any sort.  
2012-2016 10 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
22. All signaling and rigging in connection with Laborers’ work.  
23. — All work in connection with the wrecking of buildings and structures as  
limited by the definition of "Demolition Laborer, the Cleaning of Brick and Lumber"  
contained in the wage scale.  
24. All work in connection with the slinging, handling and placing of all riprap,  
rock and stone on highways, jetties, retaining walls or wherever used, wrecking yards and  
wrecking work on construction and/or razing sites.  
25, The operation of remote controlled robotic equipment in connection with  
Laborers’ work.  
26. Mechanically stabilized earthen wall construction and installation.  
27. All work on precasting or prefabrication at the construction project site or at  
a precast or prefabrication yard specifically established and operated for that one particular  
construction job.  
28. All stocking and distribution of drywall material after it has been delivered to  
the jobsite; general cleanup of drywall scrap, framing scrap, lathing scrap, roofing scrap,  
plastering scrap, electrical scrap and associated materials; jobsite distribution of all  
appliances, ranges and furniture as well as cleanup work associated therewith.  
29. The installation of all forms of fencing of any type or material including but  
not limited to chain link, V-mesh, rectangular and square mesh fabrics, revetments, wire  
netting and barb wire, baseball backstops, tennis courts, cribs, cages, window guards and  
safety screens, interior and exterior. All screens including panels of metal, fiberglass, glass  
2012-2016 11 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
or synthetic materials. Metal corrals, pens, runs or enclosures. Metal and wood guard rail,  
road markers and street signs. Post and cable or chain fences or barriers Installation of  
recreational game equipment including swings, slides, climbing structure, basketball  
backstops, net post and bars. Installation of metal gates and mechanical operators,  
Balcony railings where wire mesh, metal or wood panels are involved. Flag poles and  
street subdivision identification sign posts. All post hole drilling or excavation and the  
driving of fence posts for the work described above. The loading, moving and unloading of  
fencing materials.  
30. Installation and cutting of pavers and paving stone.  
31. Operation of all small skid steer loaders.  
C. Classifications listed in this Agreement which are not listed under this Section shall  
be included in the coverage and description of Laborers’ work claimed just as though  
incorporated in full in this Section. This does not restrict the Laborers from performing  
other work.  
D. It is agreed that work covered by the following Union agreements: Plaster Tenders,  
Brick Tenders, Gunite, Tunnel, Horizontal Directional Drilling, Asbestos, Parking and  
Highway Improvement and Landscape (referred to as "Satellite Agreements") are a part of  
the work description covered by this Agreement and are a part of the bargaining unit work  
covered by this Agreement. To the extent that any work covered by such agreement is  
encompassed by any construction agreement being performed by or let to the Contractor,  
such other wages, hours and economic terms of employment shall be considered a part of  
this Agreement by reference. If the Union has a Satellite Agreement for San Diego County  
only, that Satellite Agreement shall apply to the work. If the Union has no Satellite  
Agreement covering San Diego only, the Union's Satellite Agreement covering the  
2012-2016 12 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Southern California area shall apply to the work in San Diego County, including the  
provisions for wages and fringe benefit contributions. It is agreed that the foregoing work is  
unit work and as such the subcontracting provisions of Section 27 shall be applicable to  
such work.  
es This Agreement shall not prevent the Contractor from negotiating or making  
agreements with the Laborers’ Union for any work or classification not covered by this  
Agreement.  
Fr. Whenever any work covered by this Agreement is to be eliminated or modified by  
the introduction of any new machine, mechanized, process, new or different materials, or  
new or different method or technology with respect to the performance of such work,  
persons employed under this Agreement and subject thereto, will be given preference for  
employment and will be assigned such work where it is not in conflict with International  
jurisdictional agreements with respect to such new machine, mechanized process, new or  
different material, or new or different method or technology; and the use of any such new  
machine, mechanized process, new or different material, or new or different method or  
technology shall be subject to and covered by this Agreement, regardless of the nature,  
size or characteristics of such new machine, mechanized process, new or different  
material, or new or different method or technology.  
G. Work involved in laying and installation of pipe which is covered by this Agreement  
shall include, but shall not be limited to:  
1. All work incidental to the laying of pipe, the unloading, handling and  
distribution of all pipe, fittings, tools, materials and equipment, and laser beam operation.  
2. Industrial pipe fitting in connection with Laborers’ work.  
2012-2016 13 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
ot All inside pipe coating or lining by any method including joint finishing; pipe  
bursting.  
4. Welding, certified or otherwise in connection with Laborers’ work.  
a Installation of low voltage automatic irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems,  
including but not limited to installation of automatic controllers, valves, sensors, master  
control panels, display boards, junction boxes and conductors including all components  
thereof.  
6. Installation of valve boxes, thrust blocks, both precast & poured in place,  
pipe hangers & supports incidental to installation of the entire piping system.  
he Start-up testing, flushing, purging, water balancing, placing into operation all  
piping equipment, fixtures and appurtenances installed under this Agreement.  
8. Any line inside a structure which provides water to .work covered by this  
Agreement, including piping for ornamental pools and fountains when done in conjunction  
with landscaping.  
9. All piping for ornamental stream beds, waterways and swimming pools.  
10. ~All piping for sewers and drain lines and all preparation on the jobsite allied  
directly thereto, including fabrication, replacement, repair and service of such installations.  
11. — All temporary irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems, all temporary water lines.  
12. ~All decorative landscaping, such as decorative pools, ponds, reflecting units,  
hand grade landscaped areas, finish grade, spread top soil, build mounds, trenching by  
normal methods, backfill trenches, seed lawns, lay sod, use of ground cover such as  
2012-2016 14 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
flatted materials, riprap, gravel & rock, crushed rock, pea gravel and all other landscapable  
ground covers, installation of header boards and mowing edges, soil preparation such as  
wood shavings, fertilizers (organic, chemical or synthetic), top dress ground cover areas  
with bark or any wood, residual or other specified top dressing.  
H. All work in connection with the handling, control, removal, abatement, encapsulation  
or disposal of toxic waste. The work tasks shall include, but not be limited to, the erection,  
moving, servicing and dismantling of all enclosures, scaffolding, barricades, etc., and the  
operation of all tools and equipment used in the handling, control, removal or disposal of  
toxic waste; as well as the bagging, cartoning, crating, or otherwise packaging of materials  
for disposal.  
[. All work in connection with traffic control, including but not limited to flagging,  
signaling, assisting in the moving and installation of barriers and barricades, including  
k-rail, safety borders and all equipment; operation of pilot trucks.  
J. All work in connection with geotechnical, toxic or hazardous waste, environmental  
remediation, environmental investigation, anode or cathodic protection drilling, including but  
not limited to helper, drilling crew foreman, operation of geotechnical or environmental drills  
and development equipment without regard to motive power, size of drill bit or gig, type or  
method of drilling or self contained nature of the machine. Drills include but are not limited  
to Central Mine Equipment (CME), Foremost, Geoprobe or other similar makes. Covered  
work in this paragraph and in corresponding classifications does not include  
accredited/licensed professional consultants.  
K. Operation of all vehicles in connection with laborers work.  
2012-2016 15 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### SECTION 5  
### UNION RECOGNITION  
A. The Contractor recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining  
representative of all employees and persons employed to perform work covered by this  
Agreement. Upon being presented with evidence that a majority of the Contractor's  
employees employed under this Agreement have signed an authorization to have the Union  
represent them, the Contractor shall execute a document acknowledging its voluntary  
recognition of the Union as exclusive bargaining representative. It is understood that the  
Union does not at this time, nor will it during the term of this Agreement, claim jurisdiction  
over the following class of employees: executives, superintendents, assistant  
superintendents, master mechanics, timekeepers, messengers, office workers or any  
employees of the Contractor above the rank of craft foreman. Employees and persons  
employed to perform work covered by this Agreement specifically include Craft Foremen.  
B. The Union recognizes the Associated General Contractors of America San Diego  
Chapter, Inc, as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for their eligible  
members, present and future, who are or who become bound by this Agreement and  
agree that during the term of this Agreement it will not negotiate or enter into any  
agreement with such individual member of the Association relative to part or all of the  
subject matter covered by this Agreement.  
### SECTION 6  
### OBLIGATIONS OF EMPLOYER  
This Agreement shall be binding upon each and every eligible member of the  
Associated General Contractors of America, San Diego Chapter, Inc., with the same force  
and effect as if this Agreement were entered into by each eligible member individually. All  
2012-2016 16 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
eligible members of the Associated General Contractors of America San Diego Chapter,  
Inc., shall remain bound under this Agreement for the term of the Agreement irrespective  
of whether any eligible member shall resign or be suspended from the Association prior to  
the expiration date of this Agreement and such liability shall survive the termination or  
Suspension of membership and remain in force during the term of this Agreement,  
provided, however, that as to such former of suspended members, the provisions of  
Sections 16, 17 and 18 shall not apply from the time when such member resigns or is  
suspended from the Association. Such former or suspended member shall automatically be  
bound by all of the terms of the Laborers’ Short-Form Agreement for the Construction  
Industry except that he may terminate the Short-Form Agreement by giving the Association  
and the Union at least sixty (60) days written notice prior to June 30, 2016 (or June 30  
of any subsequent year if the Union fails to give notice in 2016) of his intent not to be  
bound by any new or renewed Agreement. Thereafter the termination clause of the  
Short-Form Agreement shall apply. The Association will provide written notice to the Union  
of any new or resigned or suspended members within ten (10) days after admission to  
membership or change in membership status.  
### SECTION 7  
### EXISTING AND OTHER AGREEMENTS  
A. In the event the Union establishes special conditions for work covered by this  
Agreement, those special conditions shall be made available to the Contractor or individual  
Contractors who wish to perform the designated work in the same locality.  
B. This Agreement shall be deemed to have been executed when the parties signing  
shall have affixed their signatures hereto.  
2012-2016 17 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
C. The provisions of this Section will not apply to special projects or jobsite  
agreements which may be negotiated in the area covered by this Agreement.  
D. The Union will promptly notify the Employer in writing of any amendment,  
modification, exception or addendum of this Agreement which might be negotiated in any  
area covered by this Agreement between the Union, an individual employer or group of  
individual employers. No contractor signatory hereto shall be required to pay higher wages  
or be subject to less favorable working conditions than those applicable to other  
Contractors employing workers covered by the terms of this Agreement.  
### SECTION 8  
### UNION SECURITY  
A. lt is agreed that all employees covered hereby shall be, or become, on the eighth  
day after employment or the eighth day after the execution of this Agreement, whichever is  
later, and remain continuously members in good standing of the Union signatory hereto  
and on whose behalf this Agreement is executed as a condition of employment.  
Membership in the Union shall be available upon terms and qualifications not more  
burdensome than those applicable at such times to other applicants for membership to  
such Union.  
B. The Contractor shall discharge any employee pursuant to the foregoing Section  
upon written notice from the Union of such employee's non-payment of initiation fees or  
dues. Such written notice shall indicate the amount of initiation fees or dues which are in a  
state of delinquency and shall give the employee forty-eight (48) hours within which to  
cure the delinquency. The Contractor agrees to furnish a copy of such notice to the  
employee forthwith. The Union will hold the Contractor harmless for compliance with this  
Section.  
2012-2016 18 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### SECTION 9  
### UNION REPRESENTATIVES  
A Union representative must: comply with all safety and health regulations and  
established practices of the Employer. In no event shall the representatives of the Union  
interfere with the progress of the work. The Union business representative or special  
representative shall have access to the project during working hours and shall make every  
reasonable effort to advise the Contractor or his representative of his presence on the  
project.  
### SECTION 10  
### STEWARD(S)  
A. The craft job steward, if any, shall be a working employee appointed by the Union,  
who shall, in addition to his regularly assigned work, be permitted to perform during  
working hours, such of his steward duties, as outlined in Paragraph C, as cannot be  
performed otherwise. The Union agrees that such duties shall be performed expeditiously  
as possible and the Contractor agrees to allow the performance of such duties as herein  
set forth. The Union shall notify the Contractor or his representative, in writing, of the  
appointment of a craft job steward, and send a copy to the Contractor's home office  
address.  
B. It is recognized by the Contractor that the employee selected as the job steward  
shall remain on the job as long as there is work being performed in a classification in  
which he is qualified to perform, except that at the completion of the job, the Contractor  
shall not be required to retain the steward in lieu of the foreman or key man upon  
reduction in force. The Contractor or his representative, before laying off, or discharging  
the craft job steward for any cause other than stated in Paragraph C, below, shall notify  
2012-2016 19 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
the Union in writing of his intent to do so two full working days prior to such intended  
layoff or discharge. The Contractor or his representative will meet with the representative  
of the Union during this two day period and attempt to resolve the matter. The craft job  
steward shall not be discharged or laid off for the performance of his agreed upon duties  
when performed in accordance with this Section, or without just cause.  
C. To promote harmony between the Union and the individual Contractor, the craft job  
steward shall be limited to and shall not exceed the following duties and activities:  
1. Check the job referral of each employee dispatched under the terms of this  
Agreement to the Contractor.  
2. Work with the Contractor's designated representative in charge of the job in  
an attempt to resolve disputes prior to the application of the grievance procedure.  
Report to the Contractor's designated representative any employee covered  
by this. Agreement who works for less than the negotiated wage scale, for less than the  
overtime rate or who goes to work without a referral.  
4, Report to the Contractor's designated representative any work belonging to  
his craft being done by non-dispatched men or by workmen of another craft.  
Di Report to his Business Representative infractions of the Agreement which  
have not been resolved between himself and the Contractor's designated representative.  
6. Report to his Business Representative any employee covered by this  
Agreement who leaves the jobsite without giving the Contractor and the craft job steward  
prior notice.  
2012-2016 20 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
7. Report any reckless or unsafe employees covered by this Agreement on the  
jobsite to the Contractor's designated representative or his Business Representative.  
8. The craft job steward shall not:  
(a) Stop the Contractor's work for any reason;  
(b) Tell any workman or any employee covered by this Agreement that  
he cannot work on the job;  
(c) Initiate any physical altercation with any person on the jobsite.  
(d) Violate company safety programs and employment policies not in  
conflict with this Agreement.  
9, Infraction of any of these rules in subparagraph 8 shall be cause for  
immediate dismissal of the craft job steward without any prior notice and this shall be the  
exclusive remedy for a violation of this Section.  
10. Any dispute in connection with this Section 10 shall be referred to the  
Grievance and Arbitration procedure of this Agreement.  
11. The Employer shall not be required to retain the steward in lieu of any  
employee whose employment with the employer predates that of the steward.  
### SECTION 11  
### SAFETY  
A. The Union shall cooperate (1) with the individual Contractor and with each other in  
carrying out all of the individual Contractor's safety measures and practices for accident  
prevention, and (2) employees shall perform their duties in each operation in such a  
2012-2016 21 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
manner as to promote efficient operations of each particular duty and of any job as a  
whole. The individual Contractors must post the name and address of their doctor and the  
compensation insurance carrier on the jobsite.  
An employee who has been found, through the grievance procedure, to have been  
unjustifiably disciplined or discharged for refusing to perform work which would endanger  
his health or safety, or the health or safety of any other employee, shall be reinstated in  
his former classification. This is not to be construed as a waiver of the employee's rights  
under Section 502 of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.  
The Contractor shall be solely responsible for implementation and maintenance of  
such safety laws, rules, regulations, standards, orders and decisions. Neither the Union nor  
the local Union or District Council are responsible for such implementation or maintenance.  
Employees and the Union shall comply with all applicable safety and health regulations  
and with the safety practices of the Employer.  
After July 1, 2000, all graduates of a Laborers’ Training Program shall receive  
certification that they have successfully completed the Basic Safety Course to be  
developed by the Laborers Training and Retraining Trust Fund of Southern California. Such  
certification will be at no cost to the Contractor.  
### SECTION 12  
### INJURY  
A. When an employee is injured while at work to the extent of being unable to work  
for the balance of the day, he shall be paid for a full day at his regular rate. His ability to  
work or not to work shall be determined by a qualified physician.  
2012-2016 22 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
B. The Employer shall not discharge or discriminate against an employee under this  
Agreement because of an industrial injury incurred prior to employment, or the filing of a  
claim for workers’ compensation benefits.  
### SECTION 13  
### DISCHARGE  
A. The Contractor shall have complete freedom of selectivity in hiring and the  
Contractor retains the right to reject, for any reason, any job applicant referred by the  
employment facility. The Contractor may discharge any employee for any cause which he  
may deem sufficient, provided there shall be no discrimination on the part of the Contractor  
against any applicant or employee, nor shall any such employee be discharged by reason  
of any Union activity not interfering with the proper performance of his work.  
B. No employee covered hereby may be discharged by an individual Employer for  
refusing to cross a lawful primary picket line sanctioned by the Building and Construction  
Trades Council in the area or for engaging in any other conduct protected by Sections 7  
or 502 of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.  
C. The Union recognizes the Employer's right to establish a drug testing policy for its  
employees. Any employee may be terminated for refusing to submit to 1) drug screening  
and/or drug testing, 2) for drinking on the job, 3) for drunkenness, 4) for dishonesty or  
for any lawful reason which affects the employee's qualification to perform work on the  
jobsite.  
D. Any discharge may be subject to the grievance procedure.  
2012-2016 23 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### SECTION 14  
### HIRING  
A. In the employment of workmen for all work covered by this Agreement, the  
following provisions shall govern:  
4 Local Union 89 shall establish and maintain an employment facility at which  
it shall establish and maintain an open and non-discriminatory employment list for the use  
of applicants for employment in the geographical area serviced by that employment facility.  
Applicants shall be registered on the employment list in the order of time  
and date of registration. There shall be five (5) groupings in the out-of-work list as  
hereinafter more particularly described.  
au Each applicant for employment shall be required to furnish such data,  
records, names of employers, length of employment or other information as may be  
considered necessary to the operation of said employment lists and each applicant shall  
complete prior to registration such forms for recording such information as may be  
submitted to him. Applicants shall list any special skills, special licenses and certifications  
which they may possess.  
4. The Contractor shall first call the Local 89 employment facility and that  
employment facility shall immediately dispatch to the Contractor the number of qualified  
and competent applicants of the classifications needed and requested by the Contractor.  
The employment facility shall dispatch workmen strictly in accordance with the provisions of  
this Agreement.  
2012-2016 24 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
5. lt shall be the responsibility of the Contractor, when ordering men, to give  
the employment facility all of the pertinent information regarding the prospective  
employment.  
6. (a) The employment facility will furnish in accordance with the request of  
the Contractor each such qualified and competent applicant from among those registered  
on said employment list to the Contractor by use of a written dispatch slip stating  
information pertinent to the prospective employment, in the order of preference stated  
below. The selection of applicants for dispatch to jobs shall be on a nondiscriminatory  
basis and shall not be based on, or in any way affected by, Union membership, by-laws,  
rules, regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obligation of Union  
membership, policies or requirements. The order of preference in the dispatch of applicants  
who are available for employment is as follows:  
Group A: Applicants whom a Contractor requests by name who have been laid off  
or terminated from employment of the type covered by this Agreement in the area served  
by the employment facility within five (5) years before a request from the same Contractor  
or a joint venture of which one (1) or more members is a former employer, who laid off or  
terminated them provided they are available for employment. This provision shall also  
apply to individual employers wishing to rehire employees of a joint venture of which the  
individual employer was a member.  
Group B: In addition to requests permitted in Group A, above, the Contractor may  
request for employment any person to work in Wage Classification Groups II, Ill, IV, and  
V, any person registered on the out-of-work list out of order for any reason; provided,  
however, that the person has worked at least three hundred (300) hours under this  
Agreement in the previous six (6) months in the area served by the Local Union  
employment facility, or has been available for work on the out of work list at least 300  
2012-2016 25 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
hours (calculated at 8 hours per day) at the Local Union employment facility, or a  
combination of both totaling at least 300 hours, Under this Section, working in the area  
served by the Local Union employment facility shall include a person dispatched to a  
Contractor in that area and then transferred by the Contractor to another area pursuant to  
the transfer provisions contained in this Agreement. At no time shall any job contain more  
than fifty (50%) percent of persons requested under this Section. The Local Union, may  
at its option, permit a percentage of individual requests greater than fifty (50%) percent on  
any job.  
Group C: Applicants whose names are entered on the employment list of the  
registration facility and who are available for employment and who have been employed in  
the type of work covered by this Agreement within the geographical jurisdiction of San  
Diego County for at least one hundred (100) hours within the preceding year. Workmen in  
Group C shall be referred on a first-in, first-out basis; that is, the first man registered in  
that group shall be the first man referred.  
Group D: All other applicants whose names are entered on the employment list of  
the registration facility and who are available for employment. Workmen in Group D shall  
be referred on a first-in, first-out basis; that is, the first man registered in that group shall  
be the first man referred.  
Apprentices: The Local Union, through the Joint Apprentice Committee, shall  
dispatch Apprentices from a separate list on a first-in, first-out basis: that is, the first  
person registered in that group shall be the first person referred; provided, however, a  
Contractor may request an Apprentice by name and such Apprentice shall be dispatched  
regardless of the Apprentice’s placement on the list.  
2012-2016 26 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, a worker shall be given  
preference in the order of dispatch under any of the following circumstances:  
(1) A Contractor becomes newly bound to this Agreement and  
requests the dispatch of its existing employees at the time the Contractor becomes bound.  
(2) A Contractor agrees to sponsor an employee as a Journeyman  
Laborer who has not worked under any Laborers Union Agreement; provided the  
Contractor agrees in writing that he intends to employ the worker on a full time basis. The  
Contractor shall send a letter to the Local Union to document its request.  
(3) A worker is "stripped" from a non-union employer and is  
dispatched to a Contractor.  
(4) A worker is a certified job steward and is dispatched to the job  
to act in such capacity.  
At no time shall any job contain more than fifty percent (50%) of persons requested under  
Subsection 2, 3 and 4 above.  
(c) For Contractor requests by name pursuant to the provision of Section  
14, Paragraph A 6(a), Group A and B and Apprentices, above, the Contractor shall  
document the request in writing, dated, signed by an appropriate management  
representative, specifying whether the person is a rehire and name of the job for which the  
referral is requested.  
(d) Available for employment shall mean persons eligible for referral and  
present at the hiring hall or present at their residence telephone (if the Local Union  
permits dispatching by telephone) during the Local Union's posted dispatch hours, and all  
2012-2016 27 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
persons eligible for referral and present at the hiring hall after posted dispatch hours,  
unless excused for the following reasons:  
(1) When death occurs in the immediate family, from the date of  
death and not exceeding one (1) week after the date of burial; provided, however, that the  
applicant produces bona fide proof of such death.  
(2) Persons on jury duty provided they produce bona fide proof they  
are serving on jury duty.  
(3) Persons temporarily serving the U.S. Military Reserve provided  
they produce bona fide proof of such service.  
(4) Required attendance at a Workers’ Compensation hearing or  
other administrative or court hearing provided they produce bona fide proof of their  
required attendance at such hearing.  
(5) Any other reason stated in the Local Union's hiring hall rules.  
(e) Persons shall be eliminated from the registration list for the following  
reasons:  
(1) Dispatched to a job, except that a person who is rejected by the  
Contractor or fails to complete five (5) full days of work (or such other period of time set  
forth in a Local Union's hiring hall rules) shall retain his/her position on the list. Upon  
request of the Contractor, no person who is rejected by the Contractor shall be dispatched  
again to the Contractor. Upon Local Union's request, the Contractor will confirm its request  
in writing.  
2012-2016 28 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
(2) Failure to accept the dispatch.  
(3) Unavailable for employment during posted dispatch hours.  
(4) Failure to report to a job, to which the person was dispatched,  
(5) Failure to register or attend roll call in accordance with the Local  
Union's rules.  
(6) Rejected by the Contractor for failure to pass a drug or alcohol  
test. Such person will not be dispatched again until he passes a drug and alcohol test at a  
facility designated by the Local Union. The cost of the test shall be borne by the worker.  
(7) Any other reason stated in the Local Union's hiring hall rules.  
(f) (1) This Section shall be known as the Laborers’ Code of  
Performance. Should any Laborer referred for employment be terminated for cause as  
defined under the Laborers’ Code of Performance, his or her referral privileges shall be  
suspended automatically for one month. Should the same individual be terminated for  
cause a second time within a twenty-four (24) month period, his or her hiring hall referral  
privileges shall be suspended automatically for six months. Should the same individual be  
terminated for cause a third time within a twenty-four (24) month period, his or her  
referral privileges shall automatically be suspended indefinitely (time period begins from the  
date of first discharge). A termination "for cause" under the Code is defined to include a  
termination for excessive absenteeism, excessive tardiness, lack of required skills (not  
applicable to apprentices), insubordination or theft.  
(2) A termination shall not be considered as “for cause” for purpose  
of this provision if the person referred for employment has filed a grievance challenging the  
2012-2016 29 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
propriety of his or her termination, unless and until the grievance is resolved in a manner  
that affirms the termination for cause, For the purpose of this provision, a decision of a  
designated panel or an arbitrator shall be final and binding.  
(3) The provisions in Subsections (1) and (2) notwithstanding, a  
Review Committee, composed of three (3) members appointed by the Business Manager  
of the District Council may, upon written request of the applicant, vacate or reduce the  
period of suspension. A request under this provision shall stay the commencement of  
suspension from referral unless and until the Committee decides otherwise. The  
Committee's decision will be by majority vote and shall be based on all of the available  
evidence including, as appropriate, the circumstances of the termination, skills evaluations  
by third parties, the availability and need for additional training, whether the applicant is an  
apprentice or journeyman member and such other factors as may be relevant. The  
Committee's decision shall rest in its sole and complete discretion.  
(4) The decision of the Committee will affect only the issue of  
eligibility for future referrals, and will not affect the termination unless all parties expressly  
consent to have that issue considered by it.  
(5) If dissatisfied with the decision by the Review Committee, the  
applicant may appeal the Committee's decision to an Independent Review Officer  
designated by and whose costs shall be paid by the International Union. The Independent  
Review Officer shall establish a procedure for expedited and prompt review of such  
appeals. Any appeal to the Independent Review Officer shall be filed by the applicant in  
writing within five (5) calendar days of time he/she has been notified of the Review  
Committee's decision and shall contain a brief statement of the issue/s. The decision of  
the Independent Review Officer shall be final and binding. A request for review under this  
2012-2016 30 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
provision does not affect the commencement or continuation of the suspension from  
referral unless and until the Independent Review Officer decides otherwise.  
(g) There is hereby established a Joint Referral Committee consisting of  
four (4) representatives of the Contractor and four (4) representatives of the Union. The  
establishment of the Committee is for the purpose of interpreting and enforcing all the  
terms and provisions of Section 14, A. Any person having any disagreement with an  
applicant's placement or dispatch under Section 14, A. shall submit his grievance to the  
Joint Referral Committee, by filing a written grievance with the Local Union stating the  
reasons for the grievance within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of the  
grievance. The Joint Referral Committee shall have full power to adjust the grievance and  
its decision shall be final and binding upon the person submitting the grievance and all  
other parties involved in the dispute. In the event of deadlock of the Joint Referral  
Committee, the grievance shall be referred to the permanent hiring hall neutral arbitrator,  
whose decision shall be final and binding. The costs of arbitration shall be borne equally  
by the Contractor and the Local Union involved in the dispute. Forms for the submission of  
any such grievance shall be available at all times in the offices of the Local Union. Neither  
the Joint Referral Committee nor the permanent hiring hall neutral arbitrator has the  
authority to modify, vary, change, add to or remove any of the terms or conditions of this  
Agreement.  
(h) The parties agree that, at its option the Local Union may elect to delete  
Group D by posting written notice of such election at the place of dispatch.  
(i) When ordering workmen, the Contractor will give notice to the Local  
Union, or its Agents, not later than 2:30 pm, of the day prior (Monday through Friday), or  
in any event, not less than seventeen and one-half (17 1/2) hours before the required  
reporting time; and in the event that forty-eight (48) hours after such notice the Local  
2012-2016 31 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Union, or its Agents, shall not furnish such workmen, the Contractor may procure workmen  
from any other source, or sources. If workmen are so employed, the Contractor will  
immediately report to the Local Union, or its Agents, each such workman by name.  
B. 1: New Employees who have not worked under this Agreement may be  
employed by the Contractor as a Journeyman, if so requested by the Contractor and if in  
accordance with this Agreement. Otherwise, all such employees should be screened and  
tested by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee to determine whether the employee is a  
journeyman or should be registered as an apprentice.  
2. In the event an employee is employed as a Journeyman at the request of a  
Contractor pursuant to Section 1. above, and leaves the employment of the Contractor and  
returns to the Local Union for dispatch, the employee shall be referred to the Joint  
Apprenticeship Committee for screening and testing to determine whether the employee  
shall maintain journeyman status or should be registered as an apprentice. The JAC's  
decision shall determine whether the employee is placed on the journeyman or apprentice  
out-of-work list for dispatch to another employer.  
C. The Contractor recognizes the desirability of employing workmen from the area in  
which the work is located and the Union recognizes that in the employ of the Contractor  
are Laborers who are necessary to the efficient continuity of the Contractor's operations.  
Therefore, the Contractor may transfer up to four (4) Laborers and one (1) foreman to the  
jobsite from the Southern California area outside of San Diego County. After the transfer of  
no more than four (4) Laborers and one (1) foreman, the Contractor must hire the next  
three (3) Laborers from the Local Union. Thereafter the Contractor may transfer from the  
Southern California area outside of San Diego County one (1) additional Laborer for each  
Laborer hired from the Local Union 89 hiring hall. The Contractor shall keep this 50-50  
ratio intact (one (1) local person and one (1) person from outside the area) in employing,  
2012-2016 32 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
laying off and terminating Laborers. Foreman shall be excluded from any ratio. Only  
employees who have been employed by the Contractor for at least three hundred (300)  
hours in the last six (6) months may be transferred from one area to another area (this  
restriction shall not apply to the foreman). The Contractor must properly clear all  
employees, including foreman and Key employees, with a dispatch slip from the Local  
Union 89. The Union will not unreasonably withhold issuing a clearance. For the transfer  
of additional Laborers, the Contractor shall first contact Local Union 89. Any additional  
transfers shall only be made by mutual consent.  
D. Workmen employed but not properly dispatched by written referral for work covered  
by this Agreement shall be removed immediately at the request of the Union in writing, to  
the Contractor or his representative and the Contractor shall immediately request  
employees to replace those removed from the Union's hiring hall. A workman so removed  
shall be paid only for actual hours worked. Following the first such occurrence, successive  
violations of the provisions of this Section shall be handled in the following manner:  
Workmen employed but not properly dispatched by written referral for work covered  
by this Agreement shall be removed immediately at the request of the Union in writing to  
the Employer or his representative. There being no exact method of determining in  
advance the precise damages involved in the Employer's failure to use the hiring hall or  
the identity of the injured worked entitled to damages, the Employer shall contribute one  
day's pay at journeyman's rate for each day or part day worked by an employee so  
removed into the Union's Health and Welfare Trust after violation has been affirmed by the  
Joint Conference Board. A workman so removed shall be paid only for the hours worked.  
The Employer shall report in writing to the Union the date of hiring each such employee,  
the number of days and parts of days worked by each such employee, name, address and  
social security number. If the Union improperly dispatches workmen, the above shall be  
considered null and void for that case only. In the event of a dispute regarding this Section  
2012-2016 33 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
the grievance shall be settled by the procedures set forth in Section 18. This paragraph  
shall not in any manner apply to jurisdictional disputes between Unions. No citation shall  
be issued on an employee at work on a call back basis provided his layoff did not exceed  
five days and that he secures a valid referral slip within twenty-four hours after notification  
by the Union's Employee transfers into San Diego County.  
### SECTION 15  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
A. The Employer and the Union will not discriminate against any person with regard to  
employment or Union membership because of his or her race, religion, color, sex, age,  
national origin, or ancestry and hereby declare their acceptance and support of existing  
laws. This shall apply to hiring, placement, training during employment, rates of pay or  
other forms of compensation, layoff or termination, and application for admission to union  
membership. A violation of this paragraph shall be subject to the grievance procedure but  
not subject to the hearing, procedure before the Joint Adjustment Board or Arbitrator  
contained in Section 18.  
B. lf the Union is unable to refer applicants for employment to an employer in  
sufficient number, or sufficient type, from the groups represented within the local area as  
may be necessary to enable the Employer to fully comply with minority or female hiring  
requirements imposed by its construction contract with any Federal, State or governmental  
body, commission or agency or to enable the employer to fully comply with all Federal and  
State Laws, Presidential Executive Orders, regulations, rules, directives or orders which  
cover hiring and which are applicable to the Employer, the Employer may directly recruit  
from any source such number of minority or female applicants acceptable to the Employer  
as may be necessary to satisfy the Employer's needs to effect such compliance. As an  
2012-2016 34 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
exception to the dispatch procedures in Section 14, the Union may dispatch workers who  
are not next in order, to aid the Employer in complying with government requirements.  
C. The Employer shall submit to the Union, in writing, any such request for minority or  
female applicants for employment, together with a copy of the order, directive, rules or  
regulations pursuant to any such Presidential Order, Federal, State or local law; the  
Construction project number, and a copy of the compliance order.  
### SECTION 16  
### JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
A. During the term hereof, there shall be no strikes, slowdowns or stoppages of work  
occasioned by jurisdictional disputes between the union signatory hereto and any other  
Union and that all employees covered by this Agreement shall perform the work  
customarily performed by them.  
B. When making work assignments, the Contractor shall assign the work in accordance  
with existing inter-craft agreements. In the absence of such inter-craft agreements, then  
past practice or the prevailing practice in the locality shall apply. The Union will furnish the  
Association with approved inter-craft agreements. The locality for the purpose of  
determining the prevailing practice shall be defined as the geographical area covered by  
this Agreement. If a dispute arises prior to the assignment of work, or where there is no  
predominant practice in the locality or intercraft agreement, the Contractor shall consult the  
representatives of the contesting trades regarding any arguments of facts the trades may  
wish to present to their claim to the work.  
C. Jurisdictional disputes shall be settled by the Unions themselves. If not settled, then  
the dispute shall be submitted to the International Presidents of the Unions involved in the  
2012-2016 35 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
dispute for determination. While such procedures are being invoked and exhausted, the  
work shall proceed as assigned by the Contractor. The Contractor and the Union shall be  
and are bound by such determination and decision and the misassignment, if any is found,  
shall be promptly corrected by the Contractor.  
### SECTION 17  
### STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS  
A. lt is the purpose and intent of the parties that all grievances or disputes arising  
between them over the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement shall be  
settled by the procedures set forth in Section 18 and that during the term of this  
Agreement the Union shall not call or engage in, sanction or assist in a strike against, or  
any slowdown, or stoppage of work of the Contractor. During the term of this Agreement,  
a Contractor shall not cause or permit any lockout of the employees covered under this  
Agreement.  
B. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, there shall be no strike, lockout or  
work stoppage by any party hereto or any individual Employer.  
### SECTION 18  
### PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT OF  
### GRIEVANCES AND DISPUTES  
A. There is hereby established a Laborers’ Joint Adjustment Board consisting of four  
(4) regular and four (4) alternate representatives of the Contractors and four (4) regular  
and four (4) alternate representatives of the Union. The establishment of this Board and  
the purpose of its existence is for the purpose of interpreting and enforcing all the terms  
and provisions contained in this Agreement. No dispute, complaint or grievance shall be  
2012-2016 36 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
recognized unless called to the attention of and, in the event it is not resolved, confirmed  
in writing to the individual Contractor, the appropriate Association, or the Local Union and  
the Union within fifteen (15) calendar days, except on discharges, which shall be seven  
(7) working days after the alleged violation occurred. It is agreed that no attorneys will be  
included in the provisions of this procedure.  
B. An individual employee having a grievance or dispute shall first attempt to adjust  
Said grievance or dispute with the Contractor or his representative. If the grievance or  
dispute is not settled at the first step, then the job steward, if any, is to receive grievances  
or disputes from employee members of his craft and shall immediately report them to his  
business representative or special representative, who shall attempt to adjust said  
grievance or dispute with the Contractor or his representative.  
C. In cases of violation, misunderstanding or differences of interpretation of this  
Agreement by either party, there shall be no cessation or stoppage of work except as  
otherwise provided in this Agreement.  
D, In the event a grievance or dispute cannot be satisfactorily adjusted on the job  
between the representative of the Union and the Contractor or his representative within  
twenty-four (24) hours, the Labor Relations Representative of the appropriate Contractor's  
Association shall meet as soon as possible with the Contractor and the Union  
representative in an attempt to resolve the dispute. If the dispute is not resolved at this  
meeting, the issue shall be immediately referred to the Joint Adjustment Board in writing  
for their consideration and decision.  
= A contractor shall refer a grievance or dispute to the Chairman of the Joint  
Adjustment Board through the appropriate Employer Association. The Association shall  
then refer the grievance or dispute to the Board by sending written notice to the Contractor  
2012-2016 37 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
and the Union Chairman of the Joint Adjustment Board. The Local Union shall refer a  
grievance to the Joint Adjustment Board by sending written notice to the Union Chairman  
of the Joint Adjustment Board and the Management Chairman of the Joint Adjustment  
Board. The written notice of referral required by this paragraph shall contain the name of  
the Contractor and the Local Union directly involved, the date and place of occurrence of  
the grievance or dispute and a brief description of the nature of the grievance or dispute.  
F. Each of the parties shall within ten (10) days after the execution of this Agreement,  
appoint its representatives and immediately notify the other party, in writing, of the name  
and business address of each representative appointed. The Joint Adjustment Board shall  
thereafter meet within ten (10) days, select its Chairman and Secretary and agree upon its  
procedural rules.  
G. The Joint Adjustment Board shall meet at 9:00 a.m. on the first Wednesday of  
each month, and shall in addition meet at the call of the Co-Chairmen. The Joint  
Adjustment Board shall issue decisions immediately. In the event the Joint Adjustment  
Board does not reach a decision for reasons of its own, any dispute or grievance may be  
referred to arbitration by either or both parties within five (5) working days to the arbitrator  
designated in Paragraph H. The arbitrator shall meet with the members of the Joint  
Adjustment Board within seventy-two (72) hours and render a decision within seventy-two  
(72) hours thereafter. The time limits specified in this paragraph may be extended by  
mutual agreement. A simple majority of the Joint Adjustment Board shall be final and  
binding upon all parties and the grievants. In the event of a deadlock and the use of the  
arbitrator is required, a majority decision of the Joint Adjustment Board and the Arbitrator  
shall be final and binding upon all parties and the grievants.  
H. The regular members of the Joint Adjustment Board designated in accordance with  
Paragraph F shall select a list of seven (7) permanent arbitrators. In the event the  
2012-2016 38 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
members of the Joint Adjustment Board, by majority vote, are unable to agree upon the  
names of the seven (7) permanent arbitrators, then as to those upon whom agreement  
cannot be reached, the following procedure shall be followed:  
144 The Union representatives shall nominate seven (7) persons for the  
positions remaining unfilled on the panel of arbitrators and the Contractor Representatives  
shall nominate seven (7) persons for the positions remaining unfilled on the panel of  
arbitrators. Thereafter, the Union Joint Chairman and the Contractor Joint Chairman shall  
alternately strike names from the lists until there remains only that number of names  
necessary to fill the remaining seven (7) positions on the permanent panel of Arbitrators.  
Those names remaining shall be added to the permanent panel of arbitrators. The  
determination as to who will strike first will be by lot, with the loser making the first strike.  
Ln Thereafter the Joint Adjustment Board shall select an Arbitrator to hear a  
pending grievance or dispute by rotation. If for any reason the Arbitrator whose turn it is to  
hear a dispute is unavailable or the parties mutually agree that an unreasonable time  
would be required in order for him to become available, then the next arbitrator in  
succession shall be selected.  
B The Contractors and the Union shall each have a total of four (4) votes on the  
Joint Adjustment Board and four (4) representatives and not less than two (2) appointed  
by each party and the Chairman shall constitute a quorum.  
J. All expenses incurred and approved by the Joint Adjustment Board necessary for  
the consideration and decision of grievances or disputes submitted to it shall be borne by  
and divided equally by the Union and the Contractor. All fees and expenses of the  
Arbitrator shall be borne by the party against whom the Arbitrator rules.  
2012-2016 39 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
K. lf there is any question as to which is the losing party, or if a case is referred back  
to the parties without decision or if there are decisions against more than one of the  
parties to the arbitration, the Arbitrator is authorized and requested to determine who shall  
pay the fees and may in such case order a sharing of such fees. In such event the  
decision of the Arbitrator on this issue shall be final and binding.  
No jurisdictional disputes shall be submitted for determination to any grievance  
procedure provided in this Section, but shall be determined in the manner provided in  
Section 16 of this Agreement.  
M. No grievance body established under this Agreement, including the Joint Adjustment  
Board and Arbitrator, in determining any grievance, shall have the authority to modify, vary,  
change, add to or remove any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement.  
N. The provisions of this Section 18 shall not apply in the event the Contractor or the  
subcontractor or the subcontractor of a subcontractor fails to pay or is delinquent in  
contributions to any Trust established under this Agreement.  
O. The Joint Chairmen of the Joint Adjustment Board shall, immediately following the  
decision rendered in Executive session, announce the decision of the Board to the parties.  
In addition, such decision shall be served upon the parties in writing, with copies of such  
decision being furnished to both the Union and the Association. The Joint Adjustment  
Board shall have full authority to fashion such remedies, whether by way of damages,  
orders to cease and desist, or any and all other reasonable remedies designed to correct  
any violation which the Joint Adjustment Board may have found to have existed.  
2012-2016 40 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Minutes of all meetings of the Joint Adjustment Board shall, be recorded by one of  
the Board members selected by the Board, and shall be signed by all members of the  
Board. Minutes shall be condensed and need not be verbatim.  
P, Each decision of the Joint Adjustment Board and the Arbitrator shall be made in  
writing and a copy of each sent to each interested party, particularly including separate  
copies to the Local Union and the Contractor directly involved, and each of the Contractor  
Associations and Unions signatory to this Agreement. The determinations of the Joint  
Adjustment Board or Arbitrator are final and binding upon the parties.  
Q, lt is understood and agreed that the procedures outlined in this Section 18 shall be  
the exclusive remedy for any violation of this Agreement.  
### SECTION 19  
### PAYMENT OF WAGES  
A. All wages due employees must be paid weekly on a designated payday by the  
Employer on the jobsite prior to the end of the employee's shift. Prior to payment of  
wages, the Employer may require the employee to sign a time card confirming the,  
accuracy of said time card. Should the payday fall on a legal, recognized holiday, the  
Employer may pay its employees on the next regularly scheduled work day; however,  
reasonable effort will be made by the Employer to pay its employees prior to the holiday.  
B. The Employer shall provide with each payroll check an itemized check stub showing  
each contribution and deduction made for the payroll period covered by the check or a  
separate statement showing the name and address of the Employer, with each payroll  
check showing separately regular deductions, the rate of pay, straight-time and overtime  
hours worked for the payroll period and the ending date. Each check shall show the name  
2012-2016 4) AGC-San Diego Engineering  
of the employee. There shall be no cash payments to employees under the terms of this  
agreement.  
C. An employee who quits shall be mailed his pay in full by certified mail to his last  
known address within three (3) working days, or be paid prior to leaving the job or  
project. In the event these stipulations are not met, he shall receive waiting time as noted  
above.  
D. lf a Contractor pays an employee by check, draft or voucher, which check, draft or  
voucher is subsequently refused payment (except when beyond the control of the  
Contractor) because the Contractor has no account with the bank, institution or person on  
which drawn, or insufficient funds to his account at the time or presentation, the Contractor  
shall be required to issue only certified checks for all employees working under this  
Agreement on that job for the duration of the job on which said check was issued, and  
shall reimburse the employee immediately by certified check for the insufficient fund check  
issued and for the bank charge assessed.  
Ee. When employees covered under the terms of this Agreement are employed at a  
higher rate of pay than the minimum established herein during any shift, the higher rate of  
pay shall apply on all time worked during that day.  
### SECTION 20  
### WORK PERIODS AND WORK RULES  
The following working rules shall cover the employment of Laborers performing any  
work covered by the terms of this Agreement in the area of San Diego County as  
described in Section 3 of this Agreement.  
2012-2016 42 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
A. Shifts:  
1. Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, between 5:00 a.m.  
and 5:00 p.m., shall constitute a day's work. Forty (40) hours Monday 5:00 a.m. through  
Friday 5:00 p.m. shall constitute a week's work.  
2. The starting time of single shifts shall be at 5:00 a.m., 5:30 a.m., 6:00  
a.m., 6:30 a.m., 7:00 a.m., 7:30 a.m., or 8:00 a.m., Monday through Friday. Starting  
times may be changed to meet job requirements, including maximum utilization of daylight  
hours. Telephonic notice shall be given to the Union in cases of deviation from the  
original starting time, followed by written confirmation.  
ae All time worked before 5:00 a.m. and after 5:00 p.m., or all time worked in  
excess of eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, and all work performed  
on Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.  
B. Multiple Shifts:  
1. When so elected by the Contractor multiple shifts may be worked for three  
(3) or more consecutive working days, provided that the Union is notified in writing  
twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the effective date of the starting of such multiple  
shift operations, provided, however, that the men working on such multiple shifts shall not  
be interchangeable with those working on a single shift basis. All employees on multiple  
or single shifts commencing work prior to the established starting time, shall be paid at the  
applicable overtime rate. In no event shall the regular working hours of different shifts  
overlap, nor shall any interval between shifts exceed the reasonable time necessary to  
change shifts, and in no event shall such interval exceed one (1) hour, except when a  
special shift is established in accordance with Paragraph C, Special Shifts.  
lt is understood that a single and a multiple shift may work concurrently on a  
project.  
2012-2016 43 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
2. Where the Employer performs field lubrication or repair on equipment outside  
of the regular single shift operation, employees performing such work shall be considered  
working on a multiple shifts basis and receive eight (8) hours pay for eight (8) hours  
worked at straight time pay, Monday through Friday. Maintenance and service shift may  
begin up to one (1) hour before end of shift. All time worked or hours paid for after eight  
(8) hours worked Dr paid for in any one-day or Saturday. Sunday and Holidays shall be  
paid for at the appropriate overtime rate.  
3. When two (2) or three (3) shifts are worked, the first and second shift shall  
work eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which eight (8) hours  
straight time shall be paid Monday through Friday and the third shift shall work seven (7)  
consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period for which eight (8) hours straight time shall be  
paid, Monday through Friday. All time worked or hours paid for after seven (7) hours  
worked for paid for on the third shift, in any one day, or Saturday, Sunday and holidays,  
shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate.  
4. Any time worked from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight, or on holidays, or  
in excess of the regular shift hours or hours paid for shall be paid for at the appropriate  
Craft overtime rate, except as provided in Paragraph B-5 of this Section.  
5. The Friday graveyard shift ending on Saturday morning will be considered  
Friday work. The Saturday graveyard shift ending Sunday morning will be considered  
Saturday work. The Sunday graveyard shift ending on Monday morning will be considered  
Sunday work.  
2012-2016 ae AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### C. SPECIAL SHIFTS  
1. When so elected by the Contractor, a single shift starting at 5:00 a.m., 5:30  
a.m., 6:00 a.m., 6:30 a.m., 7:00 a.m., 7:30 a.m., or 8:00 a.m., of four (4) ten (10) hour  
days may be worked on four (4) consecutive days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and  
holidays, provided the Union is notified in writing twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the  
effective date of the starting of such shift. All employees working this shift shall work ten  
consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which ten (10) hours of straight time shall  
be paid Monday thru Friday. All time worked before 5:00 a.m. or in excess of ten hours in  
any one day shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate. All hours worked in excess  
of forty (40) hours in any one week shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate. Written  
notice shall be given to the Union in cases of deviation from the original starting time.  
2. A special starting time of an eight (8) hour shift beginning not later than  
3:00 p.m. may be established by the Employer for the field lubrication or repair of  
equipment.  
D. It is agreed that the Contractor and the Union may mutually agree, by telephone to  
be followed in writing, upon different starting or quitting times for any of the above shift  
arrangements.  
1 When the Contractor produces evidence in writing to the Union of bona fide  
job requirement that work can only performed outside or in addition to, the regular day  
shift due to safety conditions or other requirements, an employee shall work eight (8)  
consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which he shall receive eight (8) hours pay  
at the straight time rate of pay, Monday through Friday. All time worked or hours paid for  
Saturday, Sunday and holidays shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate. in  
addition, when the above conditions exist and it is necessary to begin or end a shift during  
2012-2016 45 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
the hours specified in paragraph B-5 of this Section (for Sunday work) in order for an  
employee to complete a forty (40) hour work week, the overtime rate will not apply;  
otherwise, all time worked or hours paid for Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays and hours  
worked in excess of eight (8) hours, shall be paid for at the overtime rate. It is agreed,  
however, in the operation of this shift, no employee will lose a shift's work. Employees  
working this special Sunday shift shall receive fifty cents ($.50) per hour in addition to his  
regular rate of pay.  
ee lf maintenance or remodeling work cannot be performed on the regular shift  
because of the fact that establishments cannot suspend operations during the day, a  
special single shift may be employed starting at a time designated by operations of the  
establishment, Monday through Friday. The employees on this shift will work eight  
consecutive hours exclusive of meal period for which they shall receive eight (8) hours  
pay at the straight time rate.  
re Tide Work Schedule:  
The following provisions shall apply to employees on jobs working a single shift  
only:  
1. When employees are called out to work broken time or tide work, Monday  
through Friday, the minimum pay for such work shall be eight (8) hours at the applicable,  
regular straight-time rate. Subject to the above minimum, in computing the time to be paid  
for under this provision, eight (8) hours or less worked between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.  
shall be paid for at the applicable straight-time rate, and time in excess of eight (8) hours  
worked between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and any time worked before 7:00 a.m. or after  
5:00 p.m., shall be paid for at the applicable overtime rate.  
2012-2016 46 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
2. When employees are called out to work broken time or tide work on  
Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, the minimum pay for such work shall be eight (8) hours  
at the applicable overtime rate.  
G. When it is mutually agreed that an emergency exists, such as earthquakes, floods  
or fire, the starting time for the shift may be made to fit the emergency and eight (8)  
hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period may be worked at the straight time rate. All  
other terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply.  
H. Employees shall travel to and from their daily initial reporting place on their own  
time and by means of their own transportation. The Contractor shall be responsible for  
payment of wages from the reporting point, as ordered by the Contractor, to the jobsite  
and from job to job and return. However, employees who voluntarily report to a point for  
free transportation to the jobsite will not be compensated from the time en route and  
return. For offshore Work, employees will receive travel pay at straight-time rates from port  
of embarkation to jobsite and from jobsite to debarkation regardless of mode of  
transportation, which transportation shall be at the Contractor's expense. If no camp is  
furnished by the Contractor, such transportation shall be furnished daily.  
I. Workmen referred to the Contractor's job who arrive in an unfit condition for work,  
without a written dispatch slip from the employment facility, without the proper  
documentation as set forth on INS 1-9 Form, or who are not ready to go to work or who  
are not otherwise qualified in accordance with their written dispatch slip from the  
employment facility shall not be paid show-up time or subsistence. Grievances or disputes  
arising out of the interpretation or application of this particular paragraph shall be referred  
to the procedure for settlement of grievances and disputes.  
2012-2016 47 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
J. Any time worked on Saturday, Sunday or holidays outside of the shift hours  
provided in the Agreement shall be paid for on the basis of the actual hours worked at the  
Laborers’ overtime rate, except that any workmen or employees reporting for work at the  
stipulated time and for whom no work is provided shall receive pay for two (2) hours at  
the overtime rate; any workmen or employees who report for work and for whom work is  
provided shall receive not less than four (4) hours’ pay at the overtime rate; and if an  
employee works more than four (4) hours, he shall be paid for the actual hours worked at  
the overtime rate.  
K. When it is necessary to shut down a job or project because of a bomb threat,  
employees will be compensated as follows:  
lf such an event occurs before the regular starting time, all workmen or  
employees who have not been notified not to appear for work and who show up at the  
jobsite shall receive two (2) hours’ pay and subsistence at the applicable rate.  
2. In order to qualify for this two (2) hours’ pay (and subsistence if applicable),  
the employee and/or workman must remain on the job available for work during the two  
(2) hour period of time for which he receives pay unless released sooner by the employer  
or his representative. Time spent in a holding area as directed by the Contractor shall be  
considered as time worked and paid accordingly.  
Ls Flagmen shall be entitled to adequate relief for the use of toilet facilities.  
M. The Contractor shall be required to furnish goggles and/or hard hats where  
needed. When employees are required to work outside in the rain or snow, they shall be  
furnished rain coats, rain hats and boots. Employees working in or handling cement or  
concrete shall be furnished rubber boots and gloves. Employees required to work in mud,  
slush or water shall be furnished boots and other necessary waterproof clothing. The  
employee shall return all such clothing of the Contractor in the same condition as received,  
2012-2016 48 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
subject to reasonable wear and tear. Such equipment shall be sanitized before reissue.  
The employee shall sign for receipt of such protective clothing and on signed authorization  
the reasonable value of such protective clothing may be deducted from the employee's pay  
check. Upon return of the protective clothing, the employee shall be reimbursed in the  
amount of the deduction.  
N. in the event due to inclement weather or similar Act of God, it is no reasonably  
possible to complete forty (40) hours of work, on either an eight (8) hours day shift or  
ten (10) hour day shift, as outlined in Paragraphs A and C of this Section, Monday  
through Friday, then the balance of the forty (40) hours may be worked on Saturday at  
the straight time rate. No employee will be terminated for refusing to work on Saturday at  
the straight time rate of pay.  
O. Employees shall not work more than five (5) consecutive hours without a one-half  
(1/2) hour meal period. When employees work over five (5) hours without being provided  
with a one-half hour meal period, they shall receive one-half hour pay at the double (2)  
time rate, in addition to their normal straight time shift period of eight (8) hours. When an  
employee is required to work more than three (3) hours after his regular shift, he will be  
entitled to a one-half hour meal period at the end of the three (3) hours without loss of  
pay and an additional half hour each five (5) hours thereafter, without loss of pay. In the  
event an employee is required to work through an overtime meal period, then the  
employee shall receive pay for an additional one-half hour at the double (2) time rate.  
Meal periods may be staggered to meet job requirements.  
P. Breaks. The parties to this agreement recognize Industrial Wage Order 16-2001  
covering “On Site Construction, Mining, Drilling and Logging Industries." Any dispute or  
grievance arising from the Wage Order shall be processed under and in accordance with  
Section 18, Procedures for Settlement of Grievances and Disputes of this Agreement.  
2012-2016 49 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Wherever the Wage Order refers to collective bargaining agreements, this Master  
Labor Agreement shall be deemed to satisfy all of the requirements for treatment as a  
qualified collective bargaining agreement. The grievance procedure in Section 18 shall be  
the exclusive method for resolving all alleged violations of this Wage Order and the time  
limitations of Section 18 shall apply.  
Q, Any workman or employee reporting for work at the regular starting time and for  
whom no work is provided, shall receive pay for two (2) hours at the stipulated rate for so  
reporting, unless he has been notified before the end of his last preceding shift not to  
report; and any workman or employee who reports for work and for whom work is provided  
shall receive not less than four (4) hours’ pay; and if more than four (4) hours are  
worked in any one day, he shall receive not less than six (6) hours pay and if more than  
six (6) hours are worked, he shall receive not less than a full day's pay therefore, unless  
prevented from working for reasons beyond the control of the Contractor, including, but not  
limited by, such factors as inclement weather, a breakdown causing discontinuance of a  
major unit of the project during which time workmen or employees are not required or  
requested to remain on the project by the Contractor or his agent. New employees on their  
first day of work shall be paid for their actual time worked.  
R. Rest Periods  
1. Employees shall be given a rest period of not less than six (6) hours  
between the termination of any overtime work, except for pre-shift overtime work up to a  
maximum of eight (8) hours, and the commencement of another straight time shift, unless  
performing emergency work which is not considered a normal job operation.  
2012-2016 50 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
2. lf employees do not receive the required six (6) hours’ rest period, they  
shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate for each hour worked until they receive six  
(6) hours’ rest off the job or project, regardless if a new workday starts or not.  
S. Drinking Water:  
The Contractor shall furnish cool and potable drinking water in sufficient quantities  
for the needs of the employees and make available sanitary drinking cups and adequate  
toilet facilities in accordance with California State Law.  
it. Signing of Documents:  
Workmen and/or employees shall not be required to sign any document other than  
those required by law. Under no circumstances will an employee be required to sign any  
other document and the Union shall not be held in violation of this Agreement for ceasing  
to work on a job or project where such demand is made by the Employer.  
### SECTION 21  
### HOLIDAYS  
The following Holidays shall be observed on the date designated by Federal Law:  
New Year's Day  
Presidents’ Day  
Memorial Day  
Independence Day  
Labor Day  
Veteran's Day (November 11)  
Thanksgiving Day  
Day after Thanksgiving Day  
Christmas Day  
2012-2016 51 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
If any of the above Holidays should fall on Sunday, the Monday following shall be  
considered a legal holiday. Work on such days shall be paid at the holiday rate. No work  
shall be performed on Labor Day except in cases of extreme urgency when life or property  
is in imminent danger.  
### SECTION 22  
### JOBSITE TRANSPORTATION  
Whenever the Employer is required to provide transportation within the jobsite it  
shall comply with all applicable safety standards.  
### SECTION 23  
### PARKING  
In the event free parking facilities are not available within three hundred and fifty  
(350) yards of a jobsite, the individual Contractor will provide such facilities and the  
individual Contractor shall have the right to designate parking areas to be used. Where,  
because of congested parking conditions, it is necessary to use public facilities, the  
Contractor shall reimburse the employee for the cost of such parking upon being presented  
with .a receipt or voucher certifying to the cost thereof, such reimbursement to be made  
on a weekly basis or at the conclusion of the project, whichever occurs earlier. Designated  
parking areas shall be reasonably level and graded to drain.  
### SECTION 24  
### LABORERS' FOREMAN  
A. The selection of the employee who will be the Laborer Foreman is at the sole  
discretion of the Contractor. Where the employees of the Contractor employed on the  
2012-2016 52 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
project are predominantly Laborers and performing Laborers’ work, the employee selected  
by the Employer to be Foreman shall be an employee employed under the terms of this  
Agreement and shall receive the Laborer Foreman's wage rate. The Laborer Foreman may  
work with the tools of the trade in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. As an  
exception to the dispatch procedures contained in Section 14, the Union may dispatch  
workers requested by the Contractor as a Laborer Foreman, who are not next in order on  
the out of work list.  
B. Only Laborer Foremen who normally work with the tools of the trade during straight  
time periods, in addition to the performance of Foreman duties, may work with the tools of  
the trade during overtime periods. The need for and the number of Laborer Foremen  
required for the performance of the work shall be determined in accordance with the  
provisions of this Agreement. It is understood that in certain cases, by reason of custom  
and practice established by the parties hereto, a Foreman may be over the work and  
employees of more than one craft. If a dispute arises with respect to the application of this  
understanding, such dispute shall be determined according to the procedure set forth in  
Section 18 of this Agreement on the basis of such custom and practice.  
C. Except in case of emergency, if any of the employees not covered by this  
Agreement as set forth in Paragraph A, Section 5 of this Agreement such as  
superintendents, assistant superintendents or master mechanics, shall act in the capacity  
of a Laborer Foreman or work with the Laborers’ tools or at classifications in the Laborers’  
category, he shall be an employee under the jurisdiction of the Union.  
2012-2016 53 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### SECTION 25  
### LABORERS SPECIAL CRAFT  
### WORKING RULES AND WAGE RATES  
A. Except as specifically hereinafter otherwise provided, work classifications below are  
covered by this Agreement and shall be within the exclusive craft jurisdiction of the  
Laborers.  
B. Foreman:  
Laborer Foreman employed in accordance with Section 24 of this Agreement shall  
be paid not less than one dollar and seventy-five cents ($1.75) per hour more than the  
hourly wage rate of the highest classification over which they have leadership. In the event  
the Contractor, at his option, elects to use a Laborer Foreman to supervise other Laborer  
Foremen, he shall be paid not less than one dollar ($1.00) per hour more than the hourly  
rate of the highest classified Laborer Foreman over whom he has leadership.  
C. Work performed in the following classifications shall be governed by the following  
rules:  
1; Watchmen:  
Watchmen shall work eight (8) consecutive hours per day, exclusive of  
lunch period and forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Sunday, at straight time  
rates, provided they receive their two (2) day rest period consecutively. Watchmen shall  
receive time and one-half for all time in excess of eight (8) hours per day and for the  
sixth (6th) consecutive day worked, and double time for the seventh consecutive day  
worked. Watchmen shall also receive time and one-half for holidays except where a  
holiday falls on the seventh (7th) consecutive day worked, which shall be double time.  
2012-2016 54 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
This provision shall be applicable to persons whose principal function is to tend patrol dogs  
at the jobsite but shall not include services exclusively of delivery and retrieval of the dogs.  
2. Landscape Maintenance:  
The term "Landscape Maintenance" shall be defined to include that work on  
existing or newly landscaped projects, such as watering, weeding, mowing, edging, pruning  
and fertilizing. Replacing or repairing of existing installations, (including the repair and  
replacing of electrical and water systems, sweeping, repainting, restriping, and any other  
work contained in the specifications of the project).  
Fe Final Cleanup:  
Final cleanup work means that work performed after all new construction  
work on a section or phase of the project is completed.  
4. Traffic Controller:  
(a) Shall be an Employee whose primary duty is to direct traffic.  
(b) lf an Employee, who is dispatched to perform duties of Traffic  
Controller, begins and ends shift directing traffic, but who is also assigned to perform other  
duties, during his shift, which are in a higher classification; then the Employee must be  
paid at the rate of the highest classification for all hours worked, during the entire shift, or  
day.  
(c) Flagmen and Traffic Controller's work is the work of the laborers and  
said workmen shall be entitled to adequate relief for use of toilet facilities.  
2012-2016 55 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
D. Asphalt Plants:  
Work performed at the Employers asphalt plants shall be covered under the terms  
of this Agreement and shall conform to Section 20 herein.  
Group Classifications -  
   
   
   
   
7/01/12 7/01/13 7/01/14 7/01/15  
GROUP | $27.10 $1.35 $1.45 $1.50  
Boring Machine Helper (outside) Increase Increase increase  
Carpenter's Laborer (cleaning, to be to be to be  
handling, oiling & blowing of allocated allocated allocated  
panel forms and lumber)  
Concrete Screeding for rough strike-off  
Concrete, water curing  
Concrete Curb and Gutter Laborer  
Certified Confined Space Laborer  
Demolition Laborer, the cleaning of  
brick if performed by an employee  
performing any other phase of  
demolition work, and the  
cleaning of lumber  
Expansion Joint Caulking by any method  
(including Preparation and clean-up)  
Environmental Remediation, Monitoring  
Well, Toxic waste, and Geotechnical  
Drill Helper  
Fiberoptic installation, blowing, splicing,  
testing and related work  
Fire Watcher, limbers, brush loader, pliers  
and debris handlers  
2012-2016 56 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Flagman  
Gas, oil and/or water pipeline labor  
Housemover  
Laborer, Asphalt-Rubber Material Loader  
Laborer, Concrete  
Laborer, General or Construction  
Laborer, General Cleanup  
Laborer, Landscaping  
Laborer, Jetting  
Laborer, Temporary Water and Air Lines  
Material Hoseman (Walls, Slabs, Floors and Decks)  
Plugging, Filling of Shee-Boit Holes; Dry  
Packing Of Concrete and Patching  
Post Hole Digger (manual)  
Railroad Maintenance, Repair Trackman  
and Road Beds; Streetcar and Railroad  
Construction Track Laborers  
Rigging and Signaling  
Scaler  
Slip-form Raisers  
Filling of cracks on any surface  
Tool Crib or Tool House Laborer  
Traffic Control by any method (including assisting  
in the moving and installation of construction  
signs, barriers, barricade, delineators, cones, etc.)  
Water Well Drill Helper  
Window Cleaner  
Wire Mesh Pulling - all concrete pouring operations  
2012-2016 57 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
T0112 7/01/13  
GROUP Il $27.56 $1.35  
Asbestos Abatement Increase  
Asphalt Shoveler to be  
Cement Dumper (on 1 yard or larger mixer allocated  
and handling bulk cement)  
Cesspool Digger and Installer  
Chucktender  
Chute Man, pouring concrete, the handling of  
the chute from readymix trucks, such as  
walls, slabs, decks, floors, foundations,  
footings, curbs, gutters and sidewalks  
Concrete Curer Impervious Membrane  
and Form Oiler  
Cutting Torch Operator (demolition)  
Fine Grader, Highways and Street Paving,  
Airport Runways, and similar type  
heavy construction  
Gas, oil and/or water pipeline Wrapper pot  
tender & form man  
Grout Man (including forming, pouring, handling,  
Mixing, finishing and cleanup of all  
types of grout)  
Guinea Chaser  
Headerboard Man Asphalt  
Installation of all Asphalt Overlay Fabric and  
Materials used for Reinforcing Asphalt  
irrigation Laborer  
2012-2016 58  
7/01/14  
   
$1.45  
Increase  
to be  
allocated  
  
$1.50  
Increase  
to be  
allocated  
AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Laborer, Packing Rod Steel and Pans  
Membrane Vapor Barrier Installer  
Riprap, Stonepaver, placing stone or wet  
sacked Concrete  
Roto Scraper & Tiller  
Sandblaster (Pot Tender)  
Septic Tank Digger and Installer (Leadman)  
Tank Scaler & Cleaner  
Tar Man & Mortar Man  
Tree Climber, Faller, Chain Saw Operator,  
Pittsburgh Chipper and similar type  
Brush Shredders  
Underground Laborers (including Caisson Bellower)  
   
7/01/12 7/01/13 7/01/09 7/01/10  
GROUP Ill $27.97 $1.35 $1.45 $1.50  
Asphalt, Installation of all fabrics Increase Increase Increase  
Buggymobile Man to be to be to be  
Bushing Hammer allocated allocated allocated  
Compactor (all types including Tamper,  
Barko, Wacker)  
Concrete Cutting Torch  
Concrete Pile Cutter  
Driller, Jackhammer, 2-1/2 feet drill  
steel or longer  
Dri Pak-it Machine  
Fence Erector  
Gas, Oil and/or Water Pipeline Wrapper -  
2012-2016 52 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
6" Pipe and over by any method,  
inside and out  
Guardrail Erector  
High Scaler (including drilling of same)  
Hydro Seeder and Similar Type  
Impact Wrench, Multi-Plate  
Kettlemen, Potmen and Men applying asphalt,  
lay-kold, creosote, lime caustic and similar  
type materials ("applying” means applying,  
dipping, brushing or handling of such  
materials for pipe wrapping and waterproofing)  
Laser Beam (in connection with Laborer work)  
Pipe Layer's Backup Man, coating, grouting,  
making of joints, sealing, caulking,  
diapering and including rubber gasket joints,  
pointing and any and all other services  
Operators of Pneumatic, Gas, Electric tools,  
Vibrating Machines, Pavement Breakers,  
Air Blasting, ComeAlongs and similar  
mechanical tools not separately classified  
herein; operation of remote controlled  
robotic tools in connection with Laborers work  
Power Post Hole Digger  
Rock Slinger  
Rotary Scarifier or Multiple Head Concrete  
Chipping Scarifer  
Shot Blast Equipment Operator (8 to 48 inches)  
Steel Headerboard Man and Guideline Setter  
2012-2016 60 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Trenching Machine, hand propelled  
HOW13 HOW4 = F/01/15  
GROUP IV $28.81 $1.35 $1.45 $1.50  
Any Worker Exposed to Raw Sewage Increase Increase Increase  
Asphalt Raker, Luteman, lroner, Asphalt to be to be to be  
Dumpman and Asphalt Spreader Boxes allocated allocated allocated  
(all types)  
Concrete Core Cutter (walls, floors or  
ceilings) Grinder or Sander  
Concrete Saw Man, Cutting Walls or Flat  
Work, Scoring old or new concrete  
Cribber, Snorer, Lagging, Sheeting and  
Trench Bracing, Hand-Guided  
Lagging Hammer  
Head Rock Slinger  
Installer of Subsurface Instrumentation,  
Monitoring, Wells or Points,  
Remediation Systems Installer  
Laborer, Asphalt-Rubber Distributor Bootman  
Oversize Concrete Vibrator Operator,  
7O pounds and over  
Pipelayer performing all services in the laying,  
installation and all forms of connection  
of pipe from the point of receiving  
pipe until completion of operation,  
including any and all forms of tubular  
material, whether pipe, metallic or  
2012-2016 61] AGC-San Diego Engineering  
non-metallic, conduit, and any other  
Stationary type of tubular device used for  
the conveying of any substance or element,  
whether water, sewage, solid, gas, air, or  
other product whatsoever and without  
regard to the nature of material from  
which the tubular material is fabricated;  
No-joint pipe and stripping of same;  
Industrial. Pipefitter in connection with  
Laborers’ work  
Prefabricated Manhole Installer  
Sandblaster (Nozzleman), Porta Shot-Blast,  
Water Blasting  
Traffic Lane Closure, Certified  
### GROUP V  
   
7/01/12 7/01/13  
$32.93 $1.35  
Blasters Powderman-All work of Increase  
loading holes, placing and to be  
blasting of all powder and allocated  
Driller:  
2012-2016  
explosives of whatever type,  
regardless of method used for  
such loading and placing  
All power drills, excluding  
Jackhammer, whether core,  
diamond, wagon, track,  
multiple unit, and any and  
all other types of mechanical  
62  
7/01/14  
   
$1.45  
Increase  
to be  
allocated  
7/01/15  
$1.50  
Increase  
to be  
allocated  
AGC-San Diego Engineering  
drills without regard to the  
form of motive power  
Environmental, Remediation,  
Monitoring Well, Toxic  
Waste and Geotechnical Driller  
Toxic Waste Removal  
Welding, certified or otherwise, in  
connection with Laborers’ work  
E. When the Employer requires the employee to carry dual Union cards, the employee  
will receive $.15 per hour above the rate of the higher classification. The employee will  
pick up referrals from both Unions involved. A dual card employee shall not replace, nor  
be required by the Employer to perform the duties of, a Craft's classified-worker, The  
employee shall have the right to designate which of the involved Union's fringe benefits  
coverage he desires. The dual card employee shall be paid for the entire day at the  
highest applicable wage rate of the Unions involved. This shall not affect the rate or  
election of fringe benefit contributions as provided above.  
F. Overtime Rates:  
Time and one-half, except hours worked over 12 in a single workday, Sundays and  
Holidays, which are double (2) time.  
G. Supplemental Dues  
1; Subject to the following conditions, the Contractor agrees that he shall, if he  
is furnished with his employee's written authorization to do so, deduct the sum certified by  
the Union as the amount owing for supplemental dues from the amounts required to be  
paid by the third paragraph of Attachment #1 of this Agreement for each employee for  
2012-2016 63 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
each hour worked or paid for in each payroll period, as special supplemental dues. In  
implementing the foregoing, the parties have heretofore established the Laborers Vacation  
Dues Reconciliation Trust (hereinafter "Dues Trust") as agent for the purpose of receiving  
and holding written authorization cards and for receiving, holding, allocating and distributing  
the dues monies.  
2. Said supplemental dues shall be transmitted to the Dues Trust concurrently  
with, but not as a part of, the employer's monthly vacation contributions with respect to his  
employees covered by this Agreement to the Construction Laborers Vacation Trust. All  
sums deducted by the employers pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall, from the  
instant of their deduction, be considered dues if proper authorization shall have been  
furnished. All other sums transmitted by the employers pursuant to the provisions of this  
Section shall, from the instant of their transmittal, be considered vacation contributions if  
no such proper authorization shall have been furnished and shall be held by the Benefit  
Funds for the account of the employee. Prior to deposit in the separate bank accounts of  
the Dues Trust, on the one hand, and the Vacation Trust, on the other, the bank shall  
separate the funds transmitted into dues and vacation contributions, respectively, based  
upon whether or not a proper dues deduction authorization shall have been filed. The bank  
shall then deposit such sums in the account of the appropriate Trust referred to in this  
Section. The Union shall bear the entire responsibility for furnishing the written  
authorization referred to above. All costs incidental to receipt, administration and remittance  
to the Union of the supplemental dues payments shall be borne solely and entirely by the  
Union. This provision shall not reduce the obligations of the Contractor to pay the full  
amount of vacation contributions specified in this Agreement. All written authorizations  
referred to above shall be irrevocable for a period of one (1) year from the date of the  
execution and shall renew automatically from year to year thereafter, unless the employee,  
by written notice served upon the Laborers’ Local 89 and/or the Dues Trust, as agent for  
2012-2016 64 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
the Contractor, within fifteen (15) days following the first year or any year thereafter,  
revokes such authorization.  
H. Paving:  
Should any paving or paving maintenance job, and only a paving or paving  
maintenance job, by necessity and bid document, specification or solicitation require that  
the paving portion of the job be performed on a Saturday and/or Sunday, the following  
provisions shall apply:  
1. For paving work performed between 5:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., employees  
performing that work shall be paid at their straight time wage and fringe benefits.  
2. All paving work before 5:00 a.m. and/or after 6:00 p.m. or in excess of 8  
consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, and all such work performed on a Saturday  
and Sunday in excess of 40 hours per week shall be paid at the rate of time and a half.  
3. The Employer shall perform work covered by this Section only with its own  
employees. In order to increase job opportunities for Local 89 members, the employer  
shall not subcontract work covered by this Section to anyone except by mutual consent of  
the parties to this Agreement.  
4. At least one day prior to commencement of the paving work on a Saturday  
or Sunday, the Employer must call a pre-job conference and present to the Union  
representative an appropriate bid or other document sufficient to satisfy the Unions that the  
paving work must be performed on a Saturday and/or Sunday.  
5. The assignment or work pursuant to this Section shall be on a strictly  
voluntary basis. No employee shall be discriminated against, disciplined or discharged for  
2012-2016 65 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
declining weekend work, as set forth in this Section. Should an insufficient number of  
employees choose to perform the weekend work, the Union shall dispatch out of work  
employees from it’s out of work list for the Saturday and Sunday work only. A dispatch for  
this work only shall not change the employee's position on the out of work list or dispatch  
to full time employment.  
### SECTION 26  
### TRUST FUNDS  
A. Health and Welfare:  
1. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the  
Laborers’ Health and Welfare Trust Fund for Southern California the sum designated in  
Attachment #1 of this Agreement for each hour worked or paid for on all classifications  
contained in this Agreement.  
Z The Contractor may make voluntary contributions on behalf of supervisory  
employees above the rank of craft foreman in the amounts and manner to be determined  
by the Trustees.  
3 Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to  
the appointment of the Trustees designated by the Laborers’ Health and Welfare Trust  
Agreement for Southern California and further ratify, confirm and consent to all acts  
heretofore taken in the creation and administration of said Trust by the joint Trustees, its  
agents and representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms, conditions, provisions,  
privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as  
same may be constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently  
amended.  
2012-2016 66 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
4. The Laborers Health & Welfare Trust for Southern California is party to a  
Money-Follows-The-Man Agreement with the Northern California Laborers Health &  
Welfare Trust and other Laborers Health & Welfare Trusts, that permits employees whose  
home Trust is the Northern California Laborers Health & Welfare Trust or other  
participating Health & Welfare Trusts to have contributions paid to the Laborers Health &  
Welfare Trust for Southern California transferred to those Trusts in accordance with and  
subject to the terms of the Money-Follows-The-Man Agreement. Pursuant to Subsection 1,  
above, all contributions for hours worked or paid must be made to the Health & Welfare  
Trust Fund for Southern California.  
B. Pension:  
1. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the San  
Diego County Laborers’ Pension Trust Fund the sum designated in Attachment #1 of this  
Agreement, for each hour worked or paid for on all classifications contained in this  
Agreement.  
a The Contractor may make voluntary contributions on behalf of supervisory  
employees above the rank of craft foreman in the amounts and manner to be determined  
by the Trustees.  
3; Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to  
the appointment of the Trustees designated by the San Diego County Laborers Pension  
Trust Agreement and further ratify, confirm, and consent to all acts heretofore taken in the  
creation and administration of said Trust by the joint Trustees, its agents and  
representatives, and agree to be bound by ail the terms, conditions, provisions, privileges  
and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as same may be  
constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently amended.  
2012-2016 67 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
4. The San Diego Laborers Pension Trust Fund is party to a Money-Follows-  
The-Man Agreement with the Southern California Laborers Pension Trust, the Northern  
California Laborers Pension Trust and other participating Laborers Pension Trusts that  
permits employees whose home Trust is the Northern California Laborers Pension Trust,  
the Southern California Laborers Pension Trust or other participating Pension Trusts to  
have contributions paid to the San Diego Laborers Pension Trust transferred to those  
Trusts in accordance with and subject to the terms of the Money-Follows-The-Man  
Agreement. Pursuant to Subsection 1, above, all contributions for hours worked or paid  
must be made to the San Diego Laborers Pension Trust Fund.  
C. Vacation:  
1 Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the  
Laborers’ Vacation Trust Fund for Southern California the sum designated in Attachment  
#1 of this Agreement for each hour worked or paid for on all classifications contained in  
this Agreement.  
2. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to  
the appointment of the Trustees designated by the Laborers’ Vacation Trust Agreement for  
Southern California and further ratify, confirm, and consent to all acts heretofore taken in  
the creation and administration of said Trust by the joint Trustees, its agents and  
representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms, conditions, provisions, privileges  
and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as same may be  
constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently amended.  
D. Apprenticeship and Training:  
7 Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the  
Laborers’ Training and Retraining Trust Fund for Southern California the sum designated in  
2012-2016 68 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Attachment #1 of this Agreement for each hour worked or paid for on all classifications  
contained in this Agreement.  
a: Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to  
the appointment of the Trustees designated by the Laborers’ Training and Retraining Trust  
Agreement for Southern California and further ratify, confirm, and consent to all acts  
heretofore taken in the creation and administration of said Trust by the joint Trustees, its  
agents and representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms, conditions, provisions,  
privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as  
same may be constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently  
amended.  
E. Center For Contract Compliance Trust Fund:  
ci Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the  
Center for Contract Compliance Trust Fund, the sum designated in Attachment #1 of this  
Agreement per hour for each hour worked or paid for on all classifications contained in this  
Agreement.  
2. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to be bound by  
all the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust as they may be  
constituted in its original form and insofar as it may be amended.  
3. This Section shall be subject to the Agreement of the parties on the  
language for the Agreement and Declaration of Trust.  
2012-2016 69 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
F. Administrative Trust:  
1. Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement agree to pay to the  
Laborers’ Trusts Administrative Trust Fund for Southern California (Administrative Trust  
Fund) the sum designated in Attachment #1 for each hour worked or paid for on all  
classifications contained in this Agreement.  
Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to  
the appointment of the Trustees designated by the Laborers’ Trusts Administrative Trust  
Agreement for Southern California and further ratify, confirm and consent to all acts  
heretofore taken in the creation and administration of said Trust by the joint Trustees, its  
agents and representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms, conditions, provisions,  
privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as  
same may be constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently  
amended.  
J: The primary purpose of the Administrative Trust Fund shall be to pay  
operating costs of the Vacation Trust Fund that cannot be paid from interest revenue,  
forfeitures, and payments and income other than actual hourly contributions to the Vacation  
Trust Fund for hours worked or paid (referred to as “Operating Cost Shortfall"). If the  
auditor for the Vacation Trust Fund certifies that the Administrative Trust Fund has  
sufficient assets to pay the Operating Cost Shortfall for at least 24 months, the excess  
assets of the Administrative Trust Fund shall be used to pay administrative expenses of  
the Health & Welfare Trust Fund or Pension Trust Fund; or the Union, upon 30 days  
written notice to the Associations, may reallocate future contributions to the Administrative  
Trust Fund, to the Health & Welfare Trust Fund or Pension Trust Fund.  
2012-2016 70 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
G. Where the Contractor transfers key laborers out of the geographical area of this  
Agreement, to an area where the Contractor is not signatory to a Laborers’ Agreement, the  
Contractor shall contribute to the Trust Funds mentioned in this Agreement for all hours  
worked by or paid to such key laborers for the duration of the job for which they were  
transferred.  
H. The Trustees of all of the Trusts set forth in Subsections A, B, C and D of this  
Section 26 are directed that only persons employed, or their representatives, by Employers  
bound to an agreement with Local Union No. 89 and contributing to the Trusts may serve  
as Employer Trustees on the Trust Funds.  
### SECTION 27  
### SUBCONTRACTING, EMPLOYEE RIGHTS,  
### UNION STANDARDS AND WORK PRESERVATION  
A. The purposes of this Section are to preserve and protect the work opportunities  
normally available to employees and workmen covered by this Agreement, maintenance  
and protection of standards and benefits of employees and workmen negotiated over many  
years and preservation of the right of Union employees, employed hereunder, from being  
compelled to work with non-union workmen,  
B. Definition of Subcontractor. A subcontractor is defined as any person (other than an  
employee covered by this Agreement), firm or corporation, holding a valid state  
contractor's license where required by law, who agrees orally or in writing to perform, or  
who in fact performs for or on behalf of an individual Contractor, or the subcontractor of an  
individual Contractor, any part or portion of the work covered by this Agreement.  
2012-2016 71 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
C. Neither the contractor nor any of his subcontractors shall subcontract any work to  
be done at the site of the construction, alteration, painting or repair of a building, structure  
or other work coming within the jurisdiction of the Union except to a person, firm or  
corporation party to an appropriate current labor agreement with the Union or with the  
appropriate Local Union.  
We The Contractor may its option ensure compliance with the subcontracting  
provision contained in this Section by inserting into any subcontract for covered work the  
following language:  
"Subcontractor acknowledges that Contractor has entered into the following labor  
agreements covering work at the construction jobsite with the Southern California  
District Council of Laborers and its affiliated Local Union 89: San Diego Laborers  
AGC Master Labor Agreement for Engineering Construction, effective July 1, 2012  
to June 30, 2016 ("Master Labor Agreement”). The subcontractor acknowledges  
and agrees that a copy of the Master Labor Agreement Is available to  
subcontractor.”  
“Subcontractor agrees that, as an essential condition to entering into this  
subcontract, it shall be bound to and shall comply with all of the terms and  
conditions of the Master Labor Agreement referenced above, including wages, trust  
fund contributions, working rules, the grievance/arbitration procedure and any other  
mechanism for the resolution of dispute contained in the Master Labor Agreement,  
on all covered work performed in the geographic area of the Master Labor  
Agreement. Subcontractor agrees that it shall be bound to the Master Labor  
Agreement, commencing with the first hour of work performed by its employees on  
this Project, and shall be bound to the Master Labor Agreement for all its  
construction work, whether or not the work is performed for the Contractor, for the  
2012-2016 72 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
duration of the Master Labor Agreement, and until timely terminated pursuant to the  
terms of the Master Labor Agreement, for the duration of successor Master Labor  
Agreements.”  
“Subcontractor further agrees to bind and all its subcontractors performing job site  
work of the type covered by the Master Labor Agreement referenced above to  
become bound and comply with all of the terms and conditions of the Master Labor  
Agreement.”  
"Subcontractor acknowledges that the Southern California District Council of  
Laborers and its affiliated Local Union 89, and the Construction Laborers Trust  
Funds for Southern California, are the intended third party beneficiaries of this  
contractual provision and may enforce this provision directly against Subcontractor.”  
a No later than 10 business days after execution of a subcontract, as specified  
in Subsection 1, above, the Contractor shall deliver a copy of such subcontract to the  
Union.  
as lf the Contractor complies with both Subsections 1 and 2 above, the  
Contractor shall not be liable for a breach of the Subcontracting provisions of this Section  
as to that subcontract, provided, however, the Contractor shall be liable for the  
Subcontractor's Trust Fund contributions to the extent such liability would  
otherwise exist under this Agreement.  
4. The Union and each Association signatory to this Agreement shall maintain a  
copy of this Agreement, available to the general public, on their respective websites.  
2012-2016 73 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
= In addition to any recovery of damages by the Union for a Contractor's  
violation of the subcontracting clause, the Trust Funds may recover damages in an amount  
equal to the full fringe benefit contribution rate in effect under this Agreement at the time  
of the violation, plus interest, audit fees, and liquidated damages, for each hour of covered  
work performed by the non-signatory subcontractors employees. Such damages shall be  
payable to the Vacation Trust and shall be damages and not for the benefit of any specific  
individual.  
D. Jobsite work covered by the Union's Asbestos, Plaster Tenders, Brick Tenders,  
Tunnel, Horizontal Directional Drilling, Parking and Highway improvement and Landscape  
Satellite Agreements of the Union are a part of the work description and bargaining unit  
covered by this Agreement.  
E. Any dispute involving this Section will be resolved under the grievance procedure of  
this Agreement. An award of the Laborers Joint Adjustment Board or arbitrator may be  
judicially enforced. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Union shall  
not have the right to use strike or any other economic action to enforce any provisions of  
this Section on subcontracting.  
Fr. The Contractor and his subcontractor shall have freedom of choice in the purchase  
of materials, supplies and equipment, except that every reasonable effort shall be made by  
the Contractor and his subcontractor to refrain from the use of materials, supplies and  
equipment, which will tend to cause any discord or disturbance on the project.  
G. In the event the Contractor is a sole proprietorship that performs work covered by  
this Agreement, the sole proprietor shall be paid not less than the hourly wage rates  
stipulated in this Agreement for such work and the sole proprietorship shall contribute to all  
Trust Funds on behalf of the working sole proprietor at the hourly rates specified in  
2012-2016 74 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Attachment #1, except the hourly Pension contribution rate which instead shall be paid to  
the Construction Laborers’ Vacation Fund for Southern California. The Contractor shall be  
liable in damages to the Union in a sum equivalent to the hourly wage rate and to the  
Trust Funds in a sum equivalent to the hourly contribution rate for each hour worked by  
the sole proprietor in violation of this Paragraph G.  
H. The Contractor shall not permit a self-employed person to perform any work  
covered by this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in Section 27, Paragraph G. A  
"self-employed person” is one who works for an unincorporated trade or business in which  
that person owns ten (10%) percent or more of the interest in the capital or profits.  
I. All hours worked or paid for under the terms of Paragraph G shall be reported to,  
and payments made to, the Trust Funds, as provided for in this Agreement.  
J; The individual Employer will not devise or put into operation any scheme to defeat  
the terms of this Agreement.  
### SECTION 28  
### SAN DIEGO CONSTRUCTION  
### ADVANCEMENT FUND 2003  
The parties to this Agreement recognize that to protect and expand the interests of  
the Construction industry, to be aware of modes and methods of improving the efficiency  
of the industry and to protect the industry from harmful legislation whose impact is  
detrimental to both the employees and the Contractors and without regard to whether such  
employees are employed by members of Contractors the individual employer will contribute  
the sum of twelve cents ($0.12) per hour for all hours worked or paid for by all employees  
employed under the terms of this Agreement to the SAN DIEGO CONSTRUCTION  
2012-2016 75 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
ADVANCEMENT FUND 2003, an employer established and administered Trust formed  
and created for this purpose, and the individual employer hereby adopts and agrees to be  
bound by the terms of that certain Trust Agreement establishing the SAN DIEGO  
CONSTRUCTION ADVANCEMENT FUND 2003, and further agrees to observe and be  
bound by the actions and determinations of the Board of Trustees of said Trust.  
lt is understood that independent of any other provisions contained in this  
Agreement which provide for its termination, Contractors shall have the right and power to  
cancel unilaterally the provisions, solely of this Section at any time by delivering notice to  
the Union in writing to that effect.  
### SECTION 29  
### PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS COVERED BY  
### THE DAVIS-BACON ACT  
In the event that the Employer bids a public job or project being awarded by a  
federal agency which is to be performed at a predetermined rate established by the  
Secretary of the United States Department of Labor (pursuant to Public Law 74-403 as  
amended by Public Law 88-349 whose regulations are contained in 29 CFR Parts 1, 3, 5  
and 7, and which determinations are published in the Federal Register), and the  
Davis~-Bacon wage rate, including vacation contributions, is lower by no more than ten  
(10) percent, than this Master Labor Agreement hourly wage rate (excluding fringe  
benefits) the published hourly wage rate, including vacation contributions, at the time of bid  
shall apply to the job or project for the duration of the job or project but in no event to  
exceed an eighteen (18) month period.  
2012-2016 76 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
In the event the job or project extends beyond eighteen (18) months, the wage  
rates, including vacation contributions, shall be increased thereafter to maintain the  
appropriate ten (10) percent differential under the then current Master Labor Agreement.  
Should the predetermined wage rate and the Master Labor Agreement rate be the  
same, it is agreed that rate shall be in effect for an eighteen (18) month period. On work  
that extends beyond eighteen (18) months, then the current Master Labor Agreement rate  
shall apply.  
lf any public agency publishes Davis-Bacon wage and fringe benefit rates for  
Laborers classifications for a specific job or project which are less than the rates set forth  
in this Master Labor Agreement, and there are non-signatory prime bidders on the plan  
holders list, or if there is no bid fist published, then the individual Employer may bid said  
project in accordance with the wage rates, fringe benefit rates and other applicable  
provisions of the Davis-Bacon Determination incorporated in the bid specifications.  
### SECTION 30  
### CREW COMPOSITION AND SIZE  
Crew composition and ratio by classification shall be designated at the discretion of  
the Employer.  
### SECTION 31  
### ADA COMPLIANCE  
The Union and the Employer recognize that significant legal obligations have been  
imposed on employers by the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"). It is further  
recognized that the extent of these legal obligations, and the way in which they must be  
2012-2016 77 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
met, is presently unclear. The Union agrees, on behalf of itself and employees it  
represents, to cooperate with the Employer to ensure that the requirements of the ADA are  
complied with.  
### SECTION 32  
### GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE  
It is not the intent of either party hereto to violate any laws, rulings or regulations of  
any Governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this  
Agreement. The parties agree that, in the event any provision of this Agreement is finally  
held or determined to be illegal or void, as being in contravention of any such laws,  
rulings, or regulations, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect,  
unless the part so found to be void is wholly inseparable form the remaining portion of this  
Agreement. The parties agree that if and when any provision of this Agreement is held or  
determined to be illegal or void, they will promptly enter into lawful negotiations concerning  
the substance thereof, in the event the parties are unable to reach agreement within sixty  
(60) days following the beginning of such negotiations the parties agree to submit the  
issue to final and binding arbitration. Selection of an arbitrator shall be made in the  
manner prescribed in Section 18 of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall render decisions  
only on the specific issue submitted to him, and shall have no authority to change or  
abrogate other conditions of this Agreement. Any fees and/or expenses of the Arbitrator  
shall be borne by and divided equally by the Union and the Contractors. The decision of  
the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties. The no-strike, no lockout provisions  
of Section 17 shall not apply if either party fails to comply with the decision of the  
Arbitrator.  
2012-2016 78 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### SECTION 33  
### LABORER JOINT APPRENTICESHIP COMMITTEE  
A, The Contractors and the Union recognize the need for apprentice training and to  
this end shall indenture apprentices in conformity with California Labor Code Section  
1777.5 governing employment of apprentices upon public work. Apprentices shall be  
employed in accordance with the Standards and guidelines as established by the Laborers  
Joint Apprenticeship Committee and approved by the Division of Apprenticeship Standards.  
The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to Apprentices.  
B. A qualified employer shall employ one (1) apprentice for the first four (4)  
Journeymen (although the apprentice may be the second Laborer on the job), and  
apprentice thereafter for each four (4) additional Journeymen on the job. No apprentices  
may work without a Journeyman Laborer on the job.  
C. The Contractor will make an effort to keep Apprentices reasonably employed  
of period status or advancement to a higher period of pay.  
D. The Local Union, through the Joint Apprenticeship Committee, shall dispatch  
Apprentices to the Contractors.  
E. The Contractor shall pay to Apprentices the wages and to the Trust Funds the  
sums designated below for each hour worked or paid to Apprentices.  
F. The parties have agreed to a Memorandum of Understanding regarding  
Apprenticeship ratios.  
2012-2016 79 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
1. Apprentice wages shall be paid pursuant to the wage schedule set forth  
below and contained in the Apprenticeship Standards of the Joint Apprenticeship  
Committee, which is based on the following percentages of the Group IV journeyman rate  
of $28.81»:  
Ist period  
2nd period  
3rd period  
4th period  
5th period  
6th period  
1 - 500 hours  
501 - 1000 hours  
1001 - 1500 hours  
1501 - 2000 hours  
2001 - 2500 hours  
2501 - 3000 hours  
$14.41  
$15.85  
$17.29  
$20.17  
$23.05  
$24.49  
shall receive the appropriate percentage of any increase to the  
journeyman wage during the term of this Agreement.  
The Contractor shall pay to the Laborers Trust Funds the sum designated  
below for each hour worked or paid for on all Apprentices.  
Trust Fund contributions for Apprentices*:  
Health & Welfare (100% ) $6.81  
Pension (10%)  
Vacation (70% )  
Training and Retraining (100%) $0.64  
CG. (00%)  
Suppl. Dues (70%)  
C.A.F. (100% )  
Administrative Trust  
2012-2016  
$0.53  
$1.69  
$0.25  
$1.14  
$0.12  
$0.09  
80  
AGC-San Diego Engineering  
*Apprentices shall receive the appropriate increase to the journeyman fringe benefit  
rates during the term of the Agreement.  
### SECTION 34  
### DELINQUENCY AND COLLECTION PROCEDURE  
A. The Contractor shall pay its monthly contributions to the Trust Funds accompanied  
by a fully completed and executed report form furnished by the Trust Funds. The  
Contractor shall include with the monthly report form in a format acceptable to the Trust  
Funds:  
1. The identification of each job worked on by the Contractor during the month,  
including the contract number of the contract between the prime and owner of the  
job, the job location, the owner of the job location property, and the name and  
address of the entity for whom the Contractor is working.  
2. The name and social security number of each employee who performed  
covered work, indicating the number of hours each employee worked on each  
jobsite.  
The provisions of Subsections a. and b. above shall be implemented by the Trust  
Fund Administrator, in consultation with the Association and Union, in a way that minimizes  
any inconvenience to the Contractor. The information provided by the reports required by  
Subsections a. and b. shall be maintained in a confidential, restricted access manner by  
the Trust Funds for collection and fringe benefit eligibility purposes.  
B. The Trustees of the Trust Fund shall furnish the Contractor Association and the  
Union with a list of delinquent contractors each month. Such list will also be available to  
2012-2016 81 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
all signatory contractors on request, subject to such reasonable cost as may be determined  
by the administrative office of the Trust Funds as representing the cost of duplication and  
transmission of such lists, payment for which to be made in advance. The Contractor  
agrees he will not subcontract any portion of his job to any subcontractor whose name  
appears on the delinquent list until such subcontractor has paid all delinquent monies to  
the various Trust Funds. In the event the Contractor subcontracts to any such delinquent  
subcontractor in violation of the foregoing, the Contractor shall remove such subcontractor  
from the job immediately, unless such delinquent subcontractor immediately makes full  
payment for all delinquencies to the Trusts.  
C. lf the Contractor fails to remove the delinquent subcontractor, the Contractor shall  
become financially responsible for all fringe benefits owed to any funds established by this  
Agreement by the Contractor or by his subcontractor or the subcontractor of his  
subcontractor for work performed on the Contractor's job or project in accordance with the  
requirements set forth below.  
D, The term "Contractor" for delinquency purposes only, shall include all entities of the  
delinquent contractor, change of name, or change of entity, provided that the delinquent  
contractor holds at least ten (10%) percent ownership in the new entity.  
E. In the event the Contractor subcontracts to a subcontractor that is not on the  
delinquency list at the time the subcontract is entered into, the Trust Office shall notify the  
Contractor of any delinquency of the subcontractor within sixty (60) days of the date the  
delinquency first occurred and in no case shall the Contractor be liable for fringe benefit  
contributions of a subcontractor for more than sixty (60) days prior to the date the Trust  
Office notice is sent to .the Contractor.  
2012-2016 82 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
F.. Where a Contractor contracts with a listed delinquent subcontractor or  
subcontractors, and the Contractor fails to terminate the subcontract of such delinquent  
subcontractor, or subcontractors, the contractor shall become financially responsible for the  
liability of the delinquent subcontractor's fringe benefits on that job from the  
commencement of the work under the subcontract to the date of termination of that  
subcontract.  
G. The Trust Office shall send delinquency notices to Contractors whose contributions  
are not paid as required. The Trust Office shall notify the Union of those contractors who  
fail to pay within five (5) days of such notice and the Union may, at its sole option  
withhold service from the Contractor involved until contributions are paid or satisfactory  
arrangements made with the Trustees for payment.  
H. Any employee rendered unemployed by reason of the foregoing shall not be  
deemed engaged in a work stoppage or labor dispute but shall be deemed constructively  
laid off by the Contractor by failure to pay monies due for the benefit of the employees.  
Contractor agrees that such employees are entitled to unemployment insurance and  
warrants that he will take no action to interfere with the employee's application for  
unemployment insurance. Any dispute in connection with this paragraph is subject to the  
grievance procedure.  
I. The Trust Office shall issue delinquency notices and clearances to Contractors  
confirmed in writing.  
J. All employees shall be covered by this Agreement and the provisions applicable to  
Trust Funds. The Trustees shall have authority to audit Contractor records to determine the  
appropriate contributions and shall have specific authority to examine the Contractor's  
records, including but not limited to all payroll records (Including certified payroll records,  
2012-2016 83 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
electronic payroll records, and all records reflecting payments to trust funds other than the  
Laborer Trust Funds of Southern California Federal W-2 Forms, Forms 1099 and 1096,  
Quarterly State Tax returns, and time cards), all cash disbursement ledgers, all canceled  
checks, check registers, invoices and bank checking account statements. If requested by  
the Trusts, the Contractor shall provide payroll breakdown by job, and shall provide the job  
location, legal description of the jobsite property if known, the owner of job location, the  
name and address of the entity for which the Contractor is working, the contact telephone  
number for the job, the names and social security numbers of the employees working on  
the job, the number of hours worked by each employee on the job, all preliminary notices,  
mechanic liens and stop notices on the job, other relevant job location information  
requested by the Trusts and certification of workers compensation coverage. The Trustees  
may file suite to enforce this obligation, and, if successful, shall recover their attorneys’  
fees and costs, whether or not the audit reveals a delinquency. Any Contractor delinquent  
under this Section may be required by the Trust Funds to submit, in addition to regular  
reports, payroll breakdowns by job, and the failure to submit timely job breakdowns shall  
be considered a delinquency under this Section. If a Contractor refuses to furnish the  
foregoing the Union may take economic action.  
K. The Contractor has a duty to report to the Trust Funds as required by the  
Agreement. The Contractor shall maintain for a period of not less than four (4) years all  
payroll and related records showing all payments to persons or firms for work of the nature  
covered by this Agreement, including the records described in Section J, above. The  
Contractor shall make available such records for audit by the Trust Funds representative  
upon written request. The Contractor and the Union agree that such audits are expensive  
and time consuming for the Trust Funds and the Contractor, but the Trust Funds otherwise  
have no way of knowing the full extent of the Contractor's obligations, since the records  
showing the related employment are in the possession and control of the Contractor. In  
order to minimize the need for a frequency of such audits, the Contractor agrees that the  
2012-2016 84 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
Trustees and the Union place trust and confidence in the Contractor to report and pay  
contributions properly.  
It is recognized that a delinquency in contributions causes damages beyond the  
value of the unpaid contributions, which are difficult to quantify. These damages include,  
but are not limited to, the administrative costs of processing and collecting delinquencies,  
the costs of adjusting benefit credits and notifying participants, the additional burden placed  
on Contractors who faithfully pay their contributions, and the burden upon participants and  
beneficiaries who may be unable to qualify for benefits they may have otherwise been  
entitled to but for the delinquency of the Contractor. Because these damages are difficult,  
if not impossible, to quantify on a case-by-case basis, the parties agree that liquidated  
damages, not a penalty, for such losses shall be set at the greater of $25 or 20% of the  
contributions late or unpaid for each Trust Fund. The parties have reviewed the costs of  
collection by the Trust Funds, and agree that 20% liquidated damages is an accurate  
projection of the Trusts’ damages that result from a delinquency. in addition, any  
Contractor delinquent in its obligations under this Section shall be required to pay interest  
on the delinquent contributions (at a rate to be set by the Trustees of the Trust Funds),  
and any audit fees. In the event that litigation is necessary to collect any delinquent  
contributions (including litigation to enforce mechanic liens, stop notices, bond claims or  
similar remedies, and any bankruptcy or receivership proceedings) or to enforce any  
obligation under this Section, in addition to liquidated damages owed by the delinquent  
Contractor, the Contractor shall also be liable for all reasonable attorney fees and legal  
costs incurred in such litigation. The Trustees of the Trust Funds may waive or reduce the  
amount of liquidated damages, at their sole discretion and consistent with their fiduciary  
duties. The decision of the Trustees in any request to waive or reduce liquidated damages  
shall be final and binding upon the parties.  
2012-2016 85 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
M. The Trust Funds’ Joint Delinquency Committee may require a Contractor to post a  
satisfactory bond in a sum equal to two (2) times the amount of the delinquency or such  
lesser amount as the Committee may determine, to secure payments of contributions to  
the Trust Funds. Such amounts are to be determined by the Trust Funds, and shall  
increase if the Contractor's delinquency increases. The bond shall not be construed in any  
way as in lieu of any payments required under this Agreement. All such bonds shall be  
deposited with the Trust Administrator and shall be in a form acceptable to the Trusts. The  
bond shall remain in effect for a period of 36 months after the delinquency giving rise to  
the obligation to post the bond or until one year after the date that the Contractor is no  
longer bound to the Agreement or any successor Agreement, whichever is earlier.  
N. For the purposes of this Agreement, delinquency in failure to make the required  
reports and contributions to the Trust Fund as determined by the Trustees, shall consist of  
the following:  
1. Failure to submit trust report forms completely filled out and executed.  
2 Failure to report on all employees.  
3. Failure to make the payments as required on time.  
4. Failure to pay audit amounts and audit fees and other costs and damages  
as determined by the Trust.  
5, Failure of the bank to honor checks submitted.  
6. Failure to pay monies due.  
os Failure to submit to an audit.  
O. In addition to any other remedies under this Section, the Union may terminate the  
participation of a delinquent contractor. Notice of such termination shall be sent to  
the Contractor, and each of the employees listed on the last report submitted by  
that Contractor, and shall be effective 30 days from such notice. Upon termination,  
2012-2016 86 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
no employee of the delinquent Contractor shall accrue credit for any benefits for  
hours worked for that Contractor. However, termination shall not end or alter the  
obligations of the Contractor (or any Contractor subcontracting to that Contractor)  
under this Section. In addition to any other damages under this Section, a  
Contractor so terminated shall be liable to the Trust Fund for the cost of notice, and  
shall be liable to its employees for the value of any benefits lost in an amount not  
exceeding the hourly contributions and liquidated damages that would otherwise  
have been due.  
### SECTION 35  
### PRE-JOB CONFERENCE  
A. It is agreed there will be a pre-job conference prior to the start of any job or project  
at the option of either party where the agreed or estimated cost is five million dollars  
($5,000,000.00) or more.  
B. lf the Contractor is a member of a signatory Association, the pre-job conference will  
be arranged through the appropriate Association with the Building and Construction Trades  
Council or a Union having jurisdiction over the work in the area of the project.  
C. At the time of the pre job; the individual Contractor shall, upon request, advise the  
Union, in writing, of the names and addresses of all subcontractors employed or contracted  
with for services to be performed under this Agreement.  
2012-2016 87 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### SECTION 36  
The parties have agreed upon a Memorandum of Understanding on Drug or Alcohol  
Abuse Prevention and Detection, which may be implemented at the option of the  
Contractor.  
Associated General Contractors of Southern California District Council of  
America, San Diego Chapter, Inc. Laborers  
   
By: mes Ryan, Director/Vice President By: mando Esparza, Business Manager  
  
Date  
   
Laborers Local 89  
bin  
By: Valentine R. Macedo, Business Manager  
Zo [tt  
Date:  
2012-2016 88 AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### ATTACHMENT #1  
### CONTRIBUTIONS PAYABLE TO SAN DIEGO TRUST FUNDS  
### EFFECTIVE  
Laborers’ Health and Welfare Fund  
For Southern California  
San Diego Construction Laborers’  
Pension Fund  
Construction Laborers’ Vacation Fund  
For Southern California  
Laborers’ Training and Retraining  
Fund for Southern California  
Center for Contract Compliance Trust  
Fund  
Supplemental Dues (in addition to  
Vacation Contribution )  
Laborers Administrative Trust  
Construction Advancement Fund  
2012-2016 89  
7/01/12 =7/01/13 7/01/14 7/01/15  
$6.81  
$5.30  
$2.42  
$0.64  
$0.25  
$1.63  
$0.09  
$0.12  
### JI  
ik: sh  
1 2k:  
zk L  
ak. 1  
aA A,  
aS =  
+ tL  
AGC-San Diego Engineering  
### FUTURE INCREASES**  
07/01/13: $1.35 to be allocated from wage increase by the Union  
07/01/14: $1.45 to be allocated from wage increase by the Union  
07/01/15: $1.50 to be allocated from wage increase by the Union  
4 To be allocated by the Union to (1) Hourly wage rate; (2) Health & Welfare; (3)  
Pension; (4) Vacation; (5) Training and Retraining; (6) Supplemental Dues; (7)  
Center for Contract Compliance; (8) Administrative Trust; or (9) any combination  
thereof.  
2012-2016 90 AGG-San Diego Engineering