  
“4 600 ee  
### THE COLLECTIVE  
### BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
### NEGOTIATED BY AND BETWEEN  
### THE LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE  
### OF THE —  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA  
### AND THE  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL  
### UNION OF NORTH AMERICA  
### STATE OF INDIANA  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL  
### FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  
### ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS  
#120, #204, #274, #741, #1047, #1112  
### EFFECTIVE ©  
June 1, 2005  
thru  
May 3i, 2008  
<<  
O68 pages  
### THE COLLECTIVE  
### BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
### NEGOTIATED BY AND BETWEEN  
### THE LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE  
### OF THE  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA  
### AND THE  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL  
### UNION OF NORTH AMERICA  
### STATE OF INDIANA  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL  
### FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  
### ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS  
#120, #204, #274, #741, #1047, #1112  
### EFFECTIVE  
June 1, 2005  
thru  
May 31, 2008  
### ART,  
i  
Mi  
Vi  
  
Vul  
ix  
x  
### XI  
All  
Xl  
### XIV  
### XV  
### XVI  
### XVII  
### XVIII  
### XIX  
### XX  
### XX]  
  
XXilfi  
### XXIV  
### XXV  
XXV(a)  
### XXVI  
### SUBJECT PAGI—  
j  
sia ae re agence ee wes we ess eee wee os en 3  
ne 0c ee po tg ae og as ens ns a corres 13  
Bargaining Agent 14  
MINION os pe ex eqns oo een en me ae ee  
Working Dues Check-Off 16  
Equal Employment Opportunity 18  
Selection of Labor-Employment Regulations ...19  
Welfare “Trust, Put... goa cing on aa ene on 20  
TEUSE FAUT. os oie tae v4 a ng asin ig 08 nis 20  
Training Trust Fund 21  
ce sae oes «0 ed ene wih dw A RE ag ee 21  
Pre-Job Conference 22  
Working Hours and Overtime 23  
Shift Work evens ba angus 28  
Steward au  
tenet 30  
Pay-Day ........ os mia wy am oe ce mS peed 31  
32  
Worker’s Compensation 32  
Elimination of 33  
Sub-ContractOr ence 33  
Management Rights 33  
Grievance Procedure 33  
General Provisions 35  
Industry Fund 37  
Construction Industry Progress Council of  
Central Indiana (Local #120 & #204 only)...... 39  
Schedule of Fringe Benefit Contributions ...40  
XVI Hourly Wage sees 4D  
AVUL General Savings Clause ......... el Ace a 8 et ns a 50  
XIX Bonding 5  
aX Health 52  
‘XXI Substance Abuse Program 52  
CXXH Date 54  
56  
### AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED  
### BY AND BETWEEN  
### THE LABOR RELATIONS  
### COMMITTEE OF THE  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA  
### AND THE  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### NORTH AMERICA  
### STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL  
June 1, 2005 - May 31, 2008  
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this Ist day  
of June, 2005, by and between the Labor Relations  
Committee of the Associated General Contractors of  
Indiana, consisting of the Mason Contractors Association of  
Indianapolis, The Trade Division of Associated Building  
Contractors of Lafayette, Inc., Southern Branch of  
Associated General Contractors of Indiana, Inc., Madison  
County Contractors Association, and the Marion Contractors  
Association, Inc. The Contractor Association acting as  
negotiating agent for and on behalf of certain firms, Party of  
the First Part. Employers signatory hereto are referred to  
herein for the purpose of clarity as the “Employer”, and  
Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of  
Indiana District Council, acting for and in behalf of LIUNA  
Locals #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047 and #1112, Party of  
the Second Part, and hereinafter referred to as “Union”.  
It is agreed and understood that the Labor Relations  
Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana  
af  
is not responsible in any manner whatsoever for the admin  
istration, implementation and/or performance of thi  
Agreement and that tn no event shall it be bound as princi  
pal or be held liable as negotiating agent or as principal it  
any manner for any breach of this contract by any of the  
Employers signatory hereto.  
It is further agreed that the liability of the Employers shall be  
several and not joint and the liability of the Local Unions  
affiliated with the Laborers’ International Union of North  
America, State of Indiana District Council, shall be several  
and not joint. No purely vicarious ltability shall result to any  
such Employer or upon the Local Union for wrongful acis of  
another such Employer or of anather such Local Unton. It is  
that the Laborers’ Internationa! Union of North  
America, State of Indiana District Council, in stgning this  
Agreement for and on behalf of all of its affiltated Local  
Unions shall not be responsible for violation of this  
Agreement by the Local Union affiliated with the Laborers’  
Internationa] Union of North America, State of Indiana  
District Council, action by said Local in violation of  
the Agreement is ordered or ratified by the Laborers  
International Union of North America, State of Indiana  
District Council, or unless the State of Indiana District  
Council fails to take whatever action may be necessary to  
prevent the violation. Provided, however, that nothing con-  
tained herein shall be construed as relieving the Local Union  
of the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State  
of Indiana District Council of their full responsibility.  
### ARTICLE I  
### COVERAGE  
section 1. Work covered:  
a} This Agreement shall cover all work coming within the  
ecognized jurisdiction of the Laborers’ {International Union  
of North America as set forth in their Manual of Jurisdiction  
as amended in October 1961, and by any amendments to this  
Manual, and as now included in Section 1 of the  
Jurisdictional Guidelines booklet, adopted by the Laborers’  
International Union of Nerth America, State of Indiana  
District Council, on the date of February 26, 1972, and as  
amended from time to time as mutually agreed upon by both  
parties.  
(b) The jurisdiction of work referred to in the wage classi-  
fication and elsewhere in this Contract is the jurisdiction of  
work claimed by the Union and nothing contained herein  
shall make it mandatory for the Employer to accept the  
claims of jurisdiction as being binding upon him, The  
Employer does not waive any of his rights by permitting the  
inclusion of the jurisdiction of work in this Contract.  
{c) The Parties to this Agreement are subject to and agree  
to submit any unresolved jurisdictional dispute to  
International Representatives of al] disputing trades and, if a  
Satisfactory or mutual understanding cannot be reached at  
that time, it will be submitted to whatever Federal  
Governmental Agency, having the responsibility for the res-  
olution of such dispute. Any interpretation or decision by  
said Agency shall immediately be accepted and complied  
with by all Parties bound by this Agreement. The Employer  
and the Union agree that there will be no work stoppage dur-  
-3-  
ing the period pending a jurisdictional decision by the abo  
mentioned Federal Agency.  
(d) This Agreement shalt have effect on and cove—  
Construction Laborers working for Employers on the herei  
mentioned classes of work in the territory covered by thi  
Agreement. This Agreement includes industrial  
and/or government defense projects. This Agreemen  
excludes Heavy and Highway and Utility construction anc  
Gas Line Distribution Systems on public right-of-ways  
Laborers jurisdiction of work was originally assigned undet  
charter by the AFL-CIO, traditional performance of work as  
established over a period of years by many letters of assign-  
iueni from Employers who are agreeable that Laborers pos-  
sess the skill and ability to perform such work by award  
from the National Labor Relations Board and by mergers  
and amalgamation, it is agreed and understood that Laborers  
are tenders of all Trades involved in the Construction  
Industry and the following is the work of the Laborers:  
1. Digging of all ditches for any purpose, the excavation  
of all piers, foundations, holes and trenches; the lagging,  
sheeting, cribbing, bracing and propping of all foundations;  
al! work in connection with caissons, cofferdams, including  
all excavation, jackhammering, blastmg, shooting,  
scaling.  
2. The loading, unloading, handling and disiribution of all  
materials, fixtures, furnishings and appliances from point of  
delivery to point of installation by any means, hand, machin-  
ery, or power rigging.  
3, The cleaning and clearing of all debris, including wire  
brushing of windows, scraping of floors, removal of surplus  
-4-  
naterial from all fixtures and that of all debris in building  
nd total construction area; the general clean-up, such as  
weeping, cleaning, wash-down and wiping of construction  
acilities and furnishings; the loading and removal of all  
lebris, including crates, boxes and waste material; washing  
f wall interior and exterior; partitions, ceilings, black-  
~;ards, windows, bathrooms, kitchens, laboratories, and all  
ixtures and furnishings therein; the mopping, washing, wax-  
ng and polishing and/or dusting of al! floors or areas.  
+. The tending of all temporary heat when done by any  
process; the drying of plaster, concrete, mortar or other  
iggregate when done by salamander heat or any other dry-  
ing process.  
5. The tending of cement masons, brick masons, plaster-  
ers, carpenters and other Building Construction Crafts.  
Tending shall consist of the preparation of all materials and  
the handling and conveying of materials to the point of erec-  
tion or installation to be used by mechanics or other Crafts,  
whether such preparation is by hand or any other process,  
including power rigging and incidentals thereto. After the  
material has been prepared or unloaded, tending shall consist  
of the supplying and conveying of said materia] and other  
materials, whether done by hand, shovel, bucket, hod,  
wheelbarrow or buggy, or other motorized unit used for such  
purpose.  
The tending of Carpenters shall consist of the conveying of  
all materials from point of unloading to the point of installa-  
tion or erection by any mode or method; the cleaning of al!  
materials, such as pulling of nails, the cleaning and oiling of  
all forms; the driving of all stakes for bracing of forms, tend-  
ing the saw man by off bearing the materials, supplying  
5.  
material to the saw and the stacking of the finished produc  
and then transferring said materials to the point of installz  
tion on the project.  
6. Scaffold erection, the total erection, building an  
installation, planking, bolting, lining, leveling, bracing an  
the total dismantling of same; the building, planking, instal  
lation and removal of all staging, swinging and hanging scaf  
folds, Morgan, scaffolding, all work associated witt  
hydraulically controlled scaffolding, including all acces  
sories, including maintenance thereof for all Jathers, plaster  
ers, brick layers, masons and other Construction Trade  
Crafts; the preparation for foundations or mud sills for all  
aS weil us imaintenance shall be done by  
Laborers.  
7. Pouring and laying of concrete and related work  
Concrete, bituminous concrete or aggregates for walls, foot-  
ings, foundations, floors or for any other construction; mix-  
ing, handling, conveying, pouring, vibrating, gunniting and  
otherwise placing concrete or aggregates, whether done by  
hand or any other process; wrecking, stripping, dismantling  
and handling concrete forms and false work; butlding of cen-  
ters for ftreproofing purposes, firestop installation and other  
fireproofing materials; operation of motorized wheelbarrows  
or buggies or machines of similar character, whether run by  
gas, diesel or electrical power; when concrete or aggregates  
are conveyed by crane or derrick, or similar methods, the  
hooking on, signaling, dumping and unhooking the bucket;  
the placing of concrete or aggregates, whether poured,  
pumped, gunnited or placed by any other process; the assem-  
bly, uncoupling of all connections and parts of, or to equip-  
ment used in mixing or conveying concrete, aggregates or  
-6-  
nortar, and the cleaning of such equipment, parts and/or  
onnections; all vibrating, grinding, spreading, flowing,  
uddling, leveling and strike-off concrete or aggregates by  
loating, rodding or screeding, by hand or mechanical means  
rior to finishing. Where pre-stressed or precast concrete  
labs, walls or sections are used, all loading, unloading,  
tockpiling, hooking on, signaling, unhooking, setting and  
alTing into place of such slabs, walls, or sections; all mix-  
ng, handling, conveying, placing and spreading of grout for  
ny purpose, green cutting of concrete or aggregate in any  
orm by hand, mechanical means, grindstones or air or  
water.  
The filling and patching of voids, crevices, etc., to correct  
jefecis in concrete caused by leakage, bulging, sagging, etc.  
The loading, unloading, carrying, distributing and handling  
f all rods, mesh and for use in re-inforcing con-  
rete construction; the hoisting of rods, mesh and other  
naterials, except when a derrick or outrigger operated by  
than hand power is used.  
\ll work on interior concrete columns, foundations for  
ngine and machinery beds.  
(he stripping of forms, other than panel forms, which are to  
xe re-used in their original form and the stripping of forms  
mall flat arch work.  
he moving, cleaning, oiling and carrying of all forms to the  
lext point of erection.  
The grinding of all concrete surfaces by any mode or  
nethod.  
' The snapping of all wall ties and removal of tie rods;  
-7-  
the handling, placing and operation of the nozzle, hoses an  
pots or hoppers or sandblasting or other abrasive cleaning  
the jacking of slip forms and all semt and unskilled wor  
connected therewith.  
10. The wrecking or dismantling of buildings and all struc  
tures; breaking away roof materials, beams of all kinds, wit  
use of cutting or other wrecking tools as necessary; burnin  
or otherwise cutting all steel structural beams; the breakin  
away, cleaning and removal of al] masonry and wood o  
metal fixtures for salvage or scrap; all hooking on, unhook  
ing and signaling when materials for salvage or scrap ar  
removed by crane or derrick; all loading and unloading ¢  
(idicriats away {oii the site of wrecking; all work  
salvage or junk yards in connection with cutting, cleaning  
storing, stockpiling or handling of materials; all clean-uf  
removal of debris, burning, back-filling and landscaping o  
the site of wrecked structure.  
11. The underpinning, lagging, bracing, propping an  
shoring, raising and moving of all structures, raising ©  
structures by manual or hydraulic jacks or other methods; a  
work on house moving, shoring and underpinning of struc  
tures; loading, signaling, right-of-way clearance along th  
route of movement; re-setting of structure in new location t  
include all site clearing, excavation for foundation and con  
crete work; clean-up and back-filling, landscaping old an  
new site.  
}2. The clearing, excavating, filling, back-filling, gradin  
and landscaping of all sites for all purposes and all labo  
connected therewith, including chainmen, rodmen, checkers  
grade markers, etc.  
3. Signal men on all construction work defined herein,  
ncluding traffic control signalmen at construction sites.  
4. All Labor work, including skilled and semi-skilled, in  
onnection with the installation, sheeting, trenching, man-  
ole erectors and the digging and back-filling of all ditches,  
utting of streets and surfaces and the refinishing of same for  
ewers, air lines, water lines and conduit lines in free air, tun-  
el or compressed air projects.  
5. The laying of all clay, terra-cotta, ironstone, vitrified  
oncrete, metallic and/or non-metallic pipe, cast iron, fiber-  
lass, orange burg, transite, plastic, etc., or any other type  
ipe for sanitary and/or storm sewers, forced main sewers,  
ub-surface drainage projects, filter beds, water lines and  
onduit lines in streets, roadways, right-of-way easements,  
uilding areas, etc., to the building tine.  
6. All the unloading and distribution of all pipe and mate-  
lals used in the pertormance of work as set forth above.  
7. All the service connections of pipe from main sewers  
r water lines to the building line.  
8. The laying of pipe and making of all connections  
nd/or joints on any and all types of pipe for water, sewer  
nd/or any other uses, including laser alignment.  
9. The cutting of streets and right-of-ways for laying of  
ipes, cables and/or conduits for all purposes; digging of  
enches and manholes, cic.; handling and conveying of all  
naterials; concreting, back-filling, grading and resurfacing  
nd all other labor connected therewith; clearing and site  
reparation as defined herein; cutting or jackhammering of  
treets, roads, sidewalks or aprons by hand or the use of air  
-9-  
or other tools; digging of trenches, ditches and manholes an  
the leveling, grading and other preparation prior to layin  
pipe or conduit for any purpose; loading, unloading, sortin  
stockpiling, wrapping, coating, treating, handling and distr  
bution of water mains and all pipe, including the placing  
setting and removal of skids, cribbing, driving of sheet pi  
ing, lagging and shoring of all ditches, trenches and mar  
holes, handling, mixing or pouring of concrete and the har  
dling and placing of other materials for saddles, beds c  
foundattons for the protection of pipes, wires, conduits, etc  
back-filling and compacting of all ditches, resurfacing «  
roads, streets, etc., and/or restoration of lawns and landscar  
inert handling distribution, tha assembly i in nlace  
ins, ERE IS AES Og Be Bree ea“  
bolting and fining up of sectional metal or other pipe includ  
ing corrugated pipe; laying of lateral sewer pipe from mai  
sewer to building: laying, and making of the joint o  
al! multi-cell conduit or multi-purpose pipe; cutting of hole  
in walls, footings, piers and/or other obstructions for the pas  
sage of pipe or conduit for any purpose and the pouring o  
concrete to secure said holes; digging under streets, road  
ways, aprons or other paved surfaces for the passage of pipe  
by hand, earth auger or any other method and manual an  
hydraulic jacking of pipe under said surfaces; installation o  
septic tanks, cesspools and drain fields; all work in connec  
tion with shafts, tunnels, subways and sewers: constructio  
of sewers, shafts, tunnels, subways and caissons.  
20. The setting of all man-holes such as pre-cast poured ir  
place block, brick, setting of all cast iron catch basins anc  
manholes and all] work in connection thereto.  
21. In compressed air, all work underground or in com  
pression chambers, including tending of the outer aid lock  
-10-  
iil work in compressed air construction, including but not  
limited to, groutmen, trackmen, blasters, shield drivers, min-  
ers, brakemen, miners’ helpers, lock tenders, mulching  
machine operators, motor men, gauge tenders, rodmen, com-  
oressed air electricians, setting of liner pfate and ring sets,  
drill runners, powdermen or blasters, air hois! operators,  
form men, concrete blower operators, cement operators,  
power knife operators, erector operators, steel setters, cage  
tenders, skinners, track layers, dumpmen, diamond drillers,  
timbermen and re-timbermen, cherry pickmen, nippers,  
chuck-tenders and cable tenders, vibratormen, jet gunmen,  
gunnite nozzlemen, gunmen, reboundmen and all other work  
connected therewith,  
22. Railroad Track Work: Right-of-way clearing, excava-  
tion, grading and sub-grading, ballasting and compacting of  
right-of-way; loading, unloading, stockpiling, handling and  
distribution of track and ties and placing of or jacking track  
and ties at point of installation: all burning or otherwise cut-  
ting of track; setting of tie plates, bolting, leveling and gaug-  
ing of rails and all spiking, whether by hand or mechanical  
means, placing and tamping of ballast by hand or mechani-  
cal means; construction and/or relocation of mainlines, shoe  
flys, sidings, gradings, crossings, relocating of pipes and  
drainage and culverts.  
23. Asbestos Removal/Lead Base Paint and Hazardous  
Waste Removal: All work in regards to the dismantling,  
wrecking, clean-up, dilution process, loading, transporting,  
operation of monitoring equipment, etc.  
24, Fire Prevention and Control: Shall include but not be  
limited to the watching for and prevention of fires (with a  
fire hose or fire extinguisher or other means) when there is  
-11-  
welding, burning, grinding, etc., being performed in an are.  
where combustible materials are present. Upon request o  
the Contractor, these Employees shall have completed the  
Laborers Tratning Course in Fire Prevention and Control.  
25. Sinking of wellpoints, of dewatering head.  
er systems,  
Section 2. Jurisdictional! Disputes:  
(2) The Employer agrees to respect the jurisdiction of the  
Union and shall not make a written or a permanent assign-  
ment of work to other Trades without first affording Parttes  
to the disputed work an oppostunity to present evidence sub-  
stantiating thelr claims. The dues not waive any  
of his rights by permitting the incluston of jurisdiction of  
work in this Contract. Furthermore, no Business Manager  
has the authority to enter into a written agreement with  
another Trade in regards to work jurisdiction.  
(b) It is agreed that there shall not be any work stoppages  
over jurisdictional disputes with any Craft or Crafts  
emiployed on any project. Should jurisdictional disputes or  
differences arise with other Parties which endanger the con-  
tinuous progress of a project which cannot be settled at the  
local level, the Employer shall make a written work assign-  
ment in accordance with Area practice related to the specif-  
ic project only and work shall continue in accordance with  
the assignment by the Employer unti] representatives of the  
International Union of all disputing Trades meet and bring  
about, or Cause to bring about, a satisfactory or mutual  
understanding with the Employer.  
(c) It is agreed and understood that the Union will make  
every effort to inform its membership that there is a legally  
  
established neutral entrance or gate on a construction site  
that is being picketed itlegally and where work is being per-  
formed under the conditions of this Agreement. The above  
does in no way waive any of the Employees rights granted  
him under the Constitution of the United States and/or  
Federal Government.  
### ARTICLE If  
### FOREMEN  
Section 1. Al] Labor Foremen and Hod Carrier Foremen are  
included in the bargaining unit. The Foreman shall be  
selected by the Employer and take directions from same.  
Section 2. When five (5) or more Laborers, or five (5) or  
more Hod Carriers are employed on any one project, a  
Foreman will be employed. Said Foreman may perform  
manual labor but he shall receive the Foreman rate as stipu-  
lated herein.  
Section 3. When there are three (3) or more Foremen on a  
project, one (1) shall be assigned as General Foreman.  
Section 4, In no case shall a Foreman have the authority to  
hire or discharge Employees. All hiring and discharging will  
be done either by the Superintendent of the Party of the First  
Part, or by the Party of the First Part.  
Section 5. At no time shal! one Foreman have more than fif-  
teen (15) Laborers or Hod Carriers under his leadership.  
The principal] duties of a Labor Foreman with over fifteen  
(15) Employees is to supervise and direct the work force.  
-13-  
### ARTICLE Hl  
### BARGAINING AGENT  
Section 1. The Labor Relations Committee of the Associatec  
General Contractors of Indiana, consisting of the Masor=  
Contractors Association of Indianapolis, the Trade Divisior—  
of Associated Building Contractors of Lafayette, Inc.  
Southern Branch of Associated General Contractors of  
Indiana, Inc., Madison County Contractors Association, and  
the Marion Contractors Association, Inc., as the authorized  
representatives of the Employers who have assigned bar-  
gaining rights to the Committee for negotiation of the agrec-  
ment, recognize the Laborers’ International Unton of North  
America, State of Indiana District Council, as the sole and  
exclusive multi-union Collective Bargatning Representatives  
for ali Employees in the Unit, consisting of Construction  
Laborers, who are employed by the Employer on all work  
and classifications set forth in this Agreement.  
Section 2. The State of Indiana District Council and its affil-  
tated Local Unions #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047 and  
#1112, recognizes the Labor Relations Committee  
of the Assoctated General Contractors of Indiana and mem-  
bers of said organization for all work set forth in Article I for  
the area outlined in this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### UNION SECURITY  
Section 1. The Contractor, or Employer, recognizes and  
acknowledges that the Laborers’ International Union of  
North America, State of Indiana District Council, is the sole  
representative of ali Employees in the classification of all  
work under its jurisdiction covered by this Agreement, for  
-14-  
he purpose of collective bargaining. The State of Indiana  
Council likewise recognizes the Labor Relations  
of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana  
as listed in Article III} as the sole bargaining agents for  
vork as defined herein and recognizes the Labor Relations  
“ommittee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana  
as listed in Article as negotiating agents for its members  
or all work set forth in Article [ for the areas outlined in this  
\greement.  
ection 2, Subject to the provisions and limitations of the  
National Labor Relations Act, as amended, all present  
who are members of the Union on the effective  
ate of this Agreement, shall continue their membership in  
he Union for the duration of this Agreement to the extent of  
aying an initiation fee and membership dues and working  
ues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or  
etaining membership in the Union. All Employees, who are  
ot members of the Union, and all persons who herealter  
ecome Employees, shall become members of the Union on  
he eighth (8th) day following the beginning of their employ-  
nent, or, on the eighth (8th) day following the effective date  
f this Agreement, whichever is later, and shall remain mem-  
ers of the Union to the extent of paying an initiation fee and  
he membership dues and working dues uniformly required  
s a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the  
Jnion, whenever employed under and for the duration of  
his Agreement.  
ection 3. The Union shall notify the Employer, by certified  
nail, directed to the home office of the Employer, of any  
efault on the part of an Employee to pay his initiation fee  
and membership dues and/or working dues pursuant to thi  
Article, with a copy of said communicatten being han  
delivered to both the job Superintendent and the Employe  
involved. Such communication shall: identify the name an  
address of the delinquent Employee; state that Unio  
Membership was available to such Employee under the sam  
terms and conditions generally applicable to other members  
state that despite notice, such Employee has defaulted on hi  
obligation to pay his initiation fee and membership dues an  
working dues; and, shall instruct the Employer to discharg  
such Employee. Within twenty-four (24) hours (Saturda  
and Sunday excluded) from receipt of such written notice  
the Employer shall discharge such Employee. The Partie  
agree that such discharge shall be based upon the informa  
{ion supplied and representations made by the Unton, anc  
the Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Employer  
harmless for any actions taken by the Employers in reliance  
upon the information supplied and representations made by  
the Union in the event such information and representation  
turn out to be tncorrect.  
### ARTICLE V  
### WORKING DUES CHECK-OFF  
Section 1. Each Employer signatory to this Agreemen  
agrees to deduct from the pay of Employees covered by tht  
Agreement regular and uniform Working Dues, in the  
amount designated by the Union, provided, before any suck  
deduction is made, the Union shal! secure and furnish to the  
Employer a properly signed Authorization Form from each  
Employee permitting such deductions. The Union agrees tc  
indemnify and hold the Employers harmless for any action  
taken by the Employers in reliance upon the information  
-16-  
upplied and representations made by the Union in the event  
uch information and representations turn out to be incor-  
ect. Such deductions shall be remitted by the 10th of each  
nonth, following the end of the month for which deductions  
re made, to the designated depository at the same time and  
ccompanying Health & Welfare, Pension and Training con-  
ributions but by separate check and report of gross wages.  
The designated depository shall be called the State of  
ndiana District Council of Laborers Working Dues Fund.  
ection 2. The Authorization and Assignment of Working  
Jues shall be irrevocable for the period of one (1) year or  
the termination of this Collective Bargaining  
\greement, whichever period is less, unless written notice is  
iven by the Employee to the Employer and to the Union,  
ot more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30)  
ays before any periodic renewal date. In case no such  
Otice is given, the Authorization shall continue in effect  
rom year to year until such notice is given,  
ection 3. Violation of the Dues Check-Off Clause of this  
\greement is specifically exempted from the application of  
he grievance and arbitration procedure. (If the Employer  
iolates the provisions of the dues check-off clause of this  
\greement, the Union, without violation of this Agreement,  
hall be permitted to strike the Employer to remedy such  
iolation, provided, the Employer is given a certified written  
otice by the Union of its violation and is further allowed a  
eriod of fifteen (15) days to remedy said violation).  
section 4, The Employer, or his authorized representative,  
hal! notify the Local Union of the Party of the Second Part  
f all Employees given employment covered by this  
by submitting on the first fringe benefit report  
-17-  
after hire in, in order that the Union may obtain the require  
and necessary information from the aforesaid individuals t  
properly register them in the Working Dues Check-Off.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
Section 1. As used in this document, the terms “he”, “his  
or similar masculine pronouns shall be construed to includ  
the feminine alternatives of such pronouns. Such terms ar  
used solely for grammatical purposes and shall not be con  
strued to limit this contract or its application on the basis o  
sex, race, national origin or any other classifications.  
Section Z. ‘The Employer will not discriminate in hiring o  
Employees and will conform to laws with respect to hiring  
Section 3. [t is a condition of this Agreement, agreed to b  
both the Union and the Employer, to provide equal opportu  
nity in employment for all qualified persons and to prohibi  
unlawful discrimination in employment because of race  
religion, age, sex, mental or physical disabilities, veteran sta  
ius, color or national origin. There shall be full complianc  
with all applicable Federal and State statutes, regulations  
rules and orders of appropriate Federal or State agencie  
having jurisdiction over the subject matter of discriminatior  
in employment.  
Section 4. The Union and the Employer shall fully comply  
with all the requirements contained in Executive Orders anc  
will comply with all rulings promulgated by the  
on Equal Opportunity established thereunder. The Unior  
agrees to furnish the Employer at his request any statemen  
or data required by any Executive Order.  
-18-  
### ARTICLE VIf  
### SELECTION OF  
### LABOR-EMPLOYMENT REGULATIONS  
section 1. (a} In employment, no applicant shall be dis-  
riminated against for membership or non-membership in  
he Union. When the Employer has requested the Union to  
urnish Employees for a job, such Employees shall be  
eferred by the Union on a non-discriminatory basis.  
b) The Employer retains the right to reject any applicant  
vhether furmshed by the Union or not, and further the  
shall have the right to determine the competency  
nd qualifications of his Employees and the right to dis-  
harge for just cause.  
c) The Employer may cal] the Union for an individual by  
ame, provided he is not employed by another Employer.  
Jnder such circumstances the Union shall refer such indi-  
  
section 2. Documentation and Verification —The Employer  
nd the Union will work cooperatively to assure that both  
comply with their legal responsibilities under the  
mmigration and Reform and Control Act of 1986. In so  
joing, the Union will request from each Employee before  
eferring them to an Employer, documentation which estab-  
ishes citizenship or other legal status to work in the United  
states. These documents shall be any of the documents  
which are allowed under the regulations promulgated under  
RCA. This section may be amended mutually when regu-  
ations are finalized on these requirements.  
section 3. The Union will send no Employee to the  
who they know does not comply with the  
-19-  
Residency Requirements of the Immigration and Reforr  
Act.  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### WELFARE TRUST FUND  
Section I, On work covered by this Agreement, th  
Employer agrees to pay into the Indiana State Distric  
Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund th  
amount in cents per hour as shown in Article XXVI  
Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner, form anc  
in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted b  
the Trustees of the herein mentioned Welfare Fund.  
Section 2, The Employer agices iv be bound Dy th  
Agrecment and Declaration of Trust, entered into and datec  
May 25, 1953, establishing the Indiana State Distric  
Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund anc  
Participating Employers and by any amendments to saic  
Trust Agreement.  
Section 3. The Welfare Trust Fund shall be admintstered iy  
accordance with all provisions of applicable law.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### PENSION TRUST FUND  
Section 1. On work covered by this Agreement, the  
Employer agrees to pay into the indiana State Distric  
Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Pension Fund the  
amount in cents per hour as shown in Article XXVI  
Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner, form anc  
in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted by  
the Trustees of the herein mentioned Pension Trust Fund.  
Section 2. The Employer agrees to be bound by the  
-20-  
and Declaration of Trust entered into and dated  
une |, 1962, establishing the Indiana State District Council  
of Laborers and Hod Carriers Pension Fund and  
-articipating Employers and by any amendments to said  
[rust Agreement.  
section 3. The Pension Trust Fund shall be administered in  
iccordance with all provisions of applicable law.  
### ARTICLE X  
### TRAINING TRUST FUND  
section 1. On work covered by this Agreement, the  
agrees to pay into the Indiana Laborers Training  
Trust Fund the amount in cents per hour as shown in Article  
Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner,  
orm and in accordance with the rules and regulations as  
dopted by the Trustees of the herein mentioned Training  
rust Fund.  
section 2. The Employer agrees to be bound by the  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into and dated  
April 1, 1968, establishing the Indiana Laborers Training  
Trust Fund and Participating Employers and by any amend-  
nents to said Trust Agreement.  
section 3, The Indiana Laborers Training Trust Fund shall  
ye administered in accordance with all provisions of appli-  
able law,  
### ARTICLE XI  
### NOTIFICATION  
section 1. The Employer or his autherized representative  
hall notify the Local Union of the Party of the Second Part  
yf all Employees given employment covered by this  
-21-  
Apreement, by submitting on the first fringe benefit repo  
after hire in, the name, social security number and curren  
known address of new Employees.  
In the event an Employer signatory hereto violates thi  
Article, the Union shall have the right to file a grievance  
under this Agreement or commence a lawsuit against the  
Employer, or both.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### PRE-JOB CONFERENCE  
Section 1. Upon written request by either Party, a pre-jot  
conference will be held prior to the time the Employees o  
such Emnlover begin work on the project.  
Section 2, A written request for a pre-job conference sent by  
either Party shall be sent by certified mail. If either Party  
refuses to honor the request for a pre-job conference withir  
five (5) working days from receipt of requested pre-job con  
ference or does not abide by a previously agreed and signed  
pre-job conference or in the event a pre-job is not mutually  
agreed to and signed by both Parties upon request, the Loca  
Union has the right to picket, strike and/or withhold  
Employees. However, no picketing, striking, withdrawal o  
withholding of Employees will occur until the State o  
Indiana District Council has had an opportunity to investi  
gate said violation.  
Section 3, Likewise, it shall not be in violation of this  
Agreement for an Employer to commence work withou  
such requested pre-job conference, if the Union fails to mee  
for a pre-job conference on a date prior to that scheduled by  
the Employer for the commencement of work.  
-22-  
### ARTICLE XIII  
### WORKING HOURS AND OVERTIME  
ection 1, Work Week/Work Day:  
) The regular work week shall be a forty (40) hour week,  
fonday a.m. through Friday p.m. The project starting time  
1all be established in the pre-job conference (Article XID.  
nce established, the project starting time shall not be  
1anged without mutual consent of both parties.  
) If an Employee is required to start work prior to the  
gular starting time established in the pre-job conference,  
ud Employee shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times  
e regular rate of pay for each hour worked prior to the reg-  
ar starting time.  
) At the pre-job conference, the Contractor shall be enti-  
ed to elect working his Employees under one of two  
ptions.  
i. On the basis of five (5) consecutive work days,  
Monday through Friday, eight (8) hours per day,  
### OF;  
2. On the basis of four (4) consecutive work days,  
Monday through Thursday, ten (10) hours per  
day.  
1) The option selected during the pre-job conference must  
e mutually agreed to and may be changed only by the  
ontractor giving notification to the Union five (5) days in  
Jvance of such change.  
) If the Contractor elects Option 1, all hours worked by  
e Employee in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day  
xclusive of tunch period) or over forty (40) hours in one  
-23-  
work week (Monday through Saturday) shall be paid at th  
rate of one and one half (1-1/2) umes the regular rate of pa  
Saturday shall be treated as a make-up day if, due  
inclement weather, the Contractor has not worked the regi  
lar work days and hours Monday through Friday.  
Saturday is scheduled as a make-up day, no less than eig  
(8) hours of work will be scheduled. Overtime pay will b  
determined by the regular crew overtime.  
(f) If the Contractor elects option 2, all hours worked b  
the Employee in excess of ten (10) hours in any one da  
(exclusive of lunch period) or over forty (40) hours in an  
one work week (Monday through Friday) shall be paid at th  
of one and one-nail (i-i/2) Limes the reguiar rate of pa  
Friday shall be treated as a make-up day if due to inclemer  
weather, the Contractor has not worked the regular wor  
days or hours Monday through Thursday. If Friday is sched  
uled as a make-up day no less than eight (8) hours will b  
scheduled. Saturday will be worked at the rate of one an  
one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay. Overtime pa  
will be determined by the regular crew overtime.  
(g) IfaLaborer has not worked a minimum of the last reg  
ular work day during the week, he cannot work a make-u  
day at the regular rate of pay.  
(h} Employees must be informed prior to the conclusion o  
the last regular work day during the week that the make-u  
day will be in whole or in part at the regular rate of pa  
(depending on how much inclement weather was exper  
enced),  
{i} Working a make-up day will be strictly on a voluntar  
basis. Employees refusing to work on make-up days will no  
-24-  
e penalized.  
ection 2. Mason Tenders — It is agreed and understood that  
Mason Tenders who start work before the established proj-  
ct starting time will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times  
he regular rate of pay for those early hours.  
ection 3. Sundays and Holidays:  
a) Work performed on Sundays and Holidays will be paid  
t double (2x) the regular rate of pay. Holidays recognized  
y this Agreement are New Year’s Day. Memorial Day,  
ourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and the day  
hereafter, and Christmas Day. (No work sha}] be performed  
n Labor Day except to save life or property). Veteran’s Day  
hall be observed the day after Thanksgiving. Where any of  
he herein mentioned Holidays fall on Sunday, the following  
Monday will be observed as the Holiday.  
ection 4. Reporting to Work:  
JPTION L. Five (5) eight (8) hour days:  
a) The Employer will not be obligated to pay any Laborer  
ppearing for work if failure to go to work is due to  
nclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stop-  
age by another craft. Otherwise, two (2) hours of pay at the  
egular rate will be allowed for two (2) hours time for report-  
ng to work, provided the Laborer remains at the jobsite to  
erform whatever work may be assigned to him.  
b) If an Employee actually starts to work, he shall receive  
our (4) hours pay, except in cases of inclement weather,  
cts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.  
.) Ifan Employee works for longer than four (4) hours, ke  
hall be paid for eight (8) hours, except in cases of inclement  
-25-  
weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage b  
another craft.  
OPTION 2. Four (4) ten (10) hour days:  
(a) The Employer will not be obligated to pay any Labore  
appearing for work if failure to go to work is due t  
inclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stop  
page by another craft. Otherwise, two (2) hours of pay at th  
regular rate will be allowed for two (2) hours time for report  
ing to work, provided the Laborer remains at the jobsite t  
perform whatever work may be assigned to him.  
(b) If an Employee actually starts to work, he shall receiv  
five £3) hours toys except inca Svs of increment weathers, Aci  
of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.  
(c) If an Employee works for longer than five (5) hours, h  
shall be paid for ten (10) hours, except in cases of inclemen  
weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage b  
another craft.  
(d) On overtime work, under Option 1 or Option 2, if a  
Employee reports to work, he shall receive two (2) hours pa  
at the regular rate of pay, except in cases of inclement weath  
er, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by anothe  
craft.  
(e} On overtime work, under Option | or Option 2, if a  
Employee starts to work, he shall receive four (4) hours o  
premium pay or the actual hours worked times the premium  
rate of pay (whichever is greater) except in cases o  
inclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stop  
page by another craft.  
(f) Jt is understood that, consistent with this Section, the  
-26-  
will not be docked for time fost due to break-  
owns of machinery or while waiting for materials.  
ection 5, Clothing and Equipment — The Employer will  
urnish special wearing apparel] such as rain hats, coats and  
oots to protect the Employee when working in inclement  
veather or adverse conditions. The Employer will also fur-  
ish safety equipment such as safety hats, safety goggles,  
espirators and protective masks and slip-over boots for all  
smployees working in concrete. It is agreed and understood  
hat the Employer wiil be permitted to charge any Employee  
or such wearing apparel and safety equipment should the  
mployee fail to return any item issued to him. Any  
required to work in hazardous environments will  
e provided all equipment that is required, including gloves.  
ection 6, Lunch:  
a} A lunch period of thirty (30) minutes will be estab-  
shed between the three and one-half (3-1/2) and the four  
nd one-half (4-1/2) hour of the regular work day. The  
mployer will provide a suitable and sanitary place to eat.  
b) When an Employee is required to take his lunch period  
fter the four and one-half (4-1/2) hour, said Employee will  
e paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of  
ay for the thirty (30) minute lunch period and shall be  
lowed a fifteen (15) minute lunch period at his regular rate  
f pay.  
c) After ten (10) hours of work, the Employees will be  
ranted a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period. When  
are required to work through this second lunch  
enod, they will be paid an additional twenty (20) minutes  
t the applicable overtime rate of pay. This second lunch  
-27-  
period will be taken consistent with the other trades, whe  
feasible.  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### SHIFT WORK  
Section 1. The Employer may elect to work not in excess c  
three (3) shifts. No work shall be considered shift wor  
under this Article unless two (2) or more shifts are worke  
for a period of three (3) consecutive days, except when th  
period required is broken by Sundays, Holidays, an Act ¢  
God, incJement weather or strike. If the shift is broke  
before such three (3) consecutive days, the applicable ove  
time rate will apply.  
Section 2. When shifts are required, the first shift shall wor  
eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rate. The secon  
shift shall work seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours and receiv  
eight (8) hours pay at the regular straight time rate and eigh  
(8) hours fringe benefits. The third shift shall work seven (7  
hours and receive erght (8) hours pay at the regular straigh  
lime rate and eight (8) hours fringe benefits.  
Section 3. When Employees are required to work overtim  
on the First Shift, they shall be paid the established overtim  
rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of cight (8) hour  
on any one (1) shift.  
Section 4. When Employees are required to work overtim  
on the Second Shift, they shall be paid the established over  
time rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of seven an  
one-half (7-1/2) hours. Fringes shall be paid on all hour  
worked.  
Section 5, When Employees are required to work overtim  
-28-  
n the Third Shift, they shall be paid the established over-  
me rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of seven (7)  
ours. Fringes shall be paid on all hours worked.  
ection 6. When an Employee is required to work overtime,  
he Employer will be obligated to continue paying the appli-  
able overtime rate until the Employee has had an eight (8)  
our break.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### STEWARD  
ection 1, When the Business Manager or his designated  
epresentative deems it advisable, he may, upon written  
otice to the Employer, appoint from the Employer’s exist-  
ng work force a Steward or Stewards on any given project.  
ald Steward is to be recognized by the Employer and he  
hall have the right to act on any grievance without discrim-  
nation. Said Steward shall be a working Employee and  
hall be retained on any given project as long as, or when any  
mployee covered by thts Agreement is employed on the  
roject by the Employer, in accordance with Article VII,  
ection | (b).  
ection 2. In case the Steward cannot settle any dispute or  
rievance, the Business Manager shall be notified to take up  
vith the Party of the First Part said grievance. For all pur-  
oses of this Agreement, it is understood that the duties of  
he Steward are limited to:  
a) To insist that the provisions of this Agreement be com-  
plied with by the First and Second Parties.  
b) To report to the Business Manager any question that he  
cannot settle with the Party of the First Part.  
-29-  
(c) To report unsafe conditions to the Job Superintenden  
Section 3. When the Employer starts a special crew or 2n  
or 3rd shift crews, he will not be compelled to use the sam  
Steward on the special or shift work as on the regular work  
Section 4. In the event of a general lay-off by the Employe  
for any reason, the Steward shall be the first Employe  
recalled, unless the Employer needs an Employee who pos  
sesses specific skills that a Steward cannot perform. In the  
event, the Employer may recall another Employee and th  
Steward will be the second man recalled.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### NON-VIOLATION  
Section I. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement, if a  
Employee or Employees cease work because of:  
(a) Dispute arising out of the failure of the individua  
Employer to meet the payroll for Employees covere  
by this Agreement.  
(b) Dispute because a payroll check is dishonored.  
(c) Non-payment of contributions set forth under  
VIII, Article [X and Article X, covering the Trust Fund  
under the respective Articles mentioned herein an  
Article V covering Working Dues deductions and as i  
the manner and accordance as prescribed herein, pro  
vided the Employer is sixty (60) days delinquent.  
(d) Failure of an individual Employer to comply with th  
terms and provisions of Article XII of this Agreement  
### covering Pre-Job Conferences.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### PAY-DAY  
ection 1, The Employer shall pay Employees weekly and  
he payment shall be in full for the payroll period. Payment  
hall be made within five (5) business days of the payroll  
eriod and shall be in cash or by check. In the event  
-mployees covered by this Agreement are laid off perma-  
ently or discharged, they shall be paid immediately. It is  
trictly understood and agreed that, should any Employee  
ischarged or laid off permanently be required to report the  
ext morning to collect his pay he shall receive four (4)  
ours show up pay for reporting for his pay for each subse-  
uent morning on which he returns until paid. Employees  
vho quit voluntarily shall be paid at the neat regular pay day.  
Jowever, when Employees are laid off or discharged  
etwecn the hours of 6:00 p.m. Friday through 8:00 a.m. on  
Vionday because of unscheduled or emergency require-  
nents, the Employee will be paid by 11:00 a.m. Monday,  
inless special arrangements are made with the Employer.  
Chis will in no way supercede the Emiployer’s requirement to  
vay the regular scheduled payday or lay-off as outlined  
ibove.  
rection 2. Each weekly pay shalt be accompanied by a  
tatement listing the name of the Employee and Employer,  
he date, the number of hours worked, both straight and  
the monies deducted and for what purpose said  
leductions were made.  
-31-  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### SAFETY  
Section 1, The Employer agrees to provide safe workin  
conditions and practices as set forth in current Safet  
Standards for the Construction Industry.  
Section 2. It is agreed that all Employees covered by tht  
Agreement shall fully comply with all safety directive  
issued by the Employer and shall properly utilize all safet  
equipment provided by the Employer when so directed  
Failure to comply with these provisions may be cause fo  
discharge. Furthermore, it is agreed and understood that th  
Emplovee shall retain the right to refuse to work under con  
ditions considered to be hazardous or unsafe.  
Section 3, All journeyman workers are required to hav  
completed and passed CPR training, First Aid Training, an  
a 10 hour OSHA training course. The Union will set up  
“Safety Program” to insure that all journeymen are certifie  
and that this certification is maintained.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### WORKER’S COMPENSATION  
Section 1, The Employer agrees to ensure that all Worker  
Compensation claims will be filed in the most timely anc  
expeditious manner and in any event not later than seven (7  
days following the illness or injury. Upon request, the  
Employer agrees to provide the Employee and/or the Loca  
Union involved the name and address of the Employer’  
insurance  
### ARTICLE XX  
### ELIMINATION OF RESTRICTIONS  
section 1. No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted  
hat limit production or increase the time required to do any  
work. There shall be no limitation or restriction of the use of  
machinery, tools, or other labor-saving devices.  
### ARTICLE XXI  
### SUB-CONTRACTOR  
section Ll. The Employer shall not contract any work cov-  
ered by this Agreement to be done at the site of construction,  
ilterations, repairs or any new construction or any other  
vork to any person, firm or company that does not have an  
*xisting labor agreement with the Union covering such work  
within the scope of this Agreement,  
### ARTICLE XXII  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
section 1, The Employer retains and shall exercise full and  
xclusive authority and responsibility for the management of  
ts operations, except as expressly limited by the terms of  
his Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XXIII  
### GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
section I. (a) There shall be no stoppage of work on  
ccount of any difference of opinion, or dispute which may  
rise between the Parties of the First Part and Second Part.  
t is agreed by the Parties that all grievances, disputes, or  
laims, (except jurisdictional disputes, wage rates, fringe  
senefits and dues check-off) which may arise with respect to  
-33-  
the enforcement or interpretation of any of the terms of thi  
Agreement are to be resolved in the following manner:  
All grievances, disputes, or claims which may arise betwee  
Employers signatory to this Agreement or Employees whc  
have accepted this Agreement and thus became Parties here  
to shall be resolved in the following manner:  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
(5)  
The dispute shail first be discussed by the Job Stewarc  
or other Union Representative and the Employer’  
Foreman and/or Superintendent.  
If the grievance is not resolved, then the dispute shal  
be referred to the Business Representative of the Unior  
and Employer's Representative.  
In the event said dispute has not been resolved, the  
State of Indiana District Council through it  
Representative, shall meet with the Employer’  
Representative, in an attempt to resolve said dispute.  
In the event that the dispute is not settled, either Party  
may, through written notice to the other Party, submi  
the grievance or dispute to final and binding arbitration  
The Arbitrator shall be selected in the following man  
ner:  
The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shal  
be requested to submit a panel of arbitrators, who shal  
be members of the National Academy of Arbitrators, of  
which names are alternately struck until the remaining  
arbitrator, whose name remains on the list, shal] serve  
as the arbitrator to hear and decide the dispute and/or  
grievance. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and  
binding on both Parties.  
-34-  
The cost of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by both  
Parties to the grievance and/or dispute.  
Section 2. No proceeding hereinunder based on any dispute,  
complaint or grievance herein provided for shall be recog-  
nized unless called to the attention of the individual  
Employer and the Local Union involved in writing within  
ten (10) days after the alleged violation is committed.  
Section 3. Copies of the decision made by the Grievance  
Committee and/or the Arbitrator shall be mailed to the  
Employer and the Union.  
Section 4. There shall be no stoppage of work on account of  
any difference of opinion or dispute which may arise  
between the Parties of the First and Second Part, or between  
this and any other unit or units of Organized Labor, or  
between other Units of Organized Labor, or between any  
unit or units of Organized Labor and any other division of  
the Building Industry.  
Section 5. EXCEPTIONS — Notwithstanding the other pro-  
visions of this Article, it shall not be a violation of this  
Agreement if any Employee or Employees of an Employer  
-ease work or picket because of non-payment of wages, dis-  
1onored payroll checks, non-payment of Health and Welfare  
ontributions, Pension contributions, Training contributions  
ind/or Working Dues deductions by said Employer.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### GENERAL PROVISIONS  
section 1. This Agreement covers the entire understanding  
vetween the Parties hereto. No oral or written rule, regula-  
ion, or understanding not incorporated herein will be of any  
-35-  
force or effect upon any Party hereto.  
Section 2, This Agreement shall apply from and after its  
effective date as hereinafter provided.  
Section 3. The Employer shall at all times provide sanitary  
drinking water and containers, tced water when necessary  
and toilet facilities, same (o be stationed conveniently to all  
Employees.  
Section 4. The Employer shall make reasonable efforts to  
make provisions for permitting access to the job site by the  
Business Manager of the Local Union, or his duly appointed  
Field Representative. If the Business Manager of a Local  
Union is denied access to a job site for the purpose of trans-  
acting business, he shall notify the main office of the  
Employer to assist him tn obtaining admission.  
Section 5. When a job is located within a Plant, the  
Employer shall provide (for regular shifts) adequate means  
for transporting Employees from the Plant entrance, to the  
job, provided the operation of the job is one-half (1/2) mile  
or more from the Plant entrance. Vehicles shall be properly  
covered during cold or inclement weather. When this condi  
tion exists, Employees will go in to work on their time anc  
go out from work on the Employer’s time.  
Section 6. When any Employee or Employees work in twe-  
(2) or more Classifications during the period of the first halt  
of the shift, he or they shall receive the wage rate of the high:  
est Classification for such period and an Employee ot  
Employees working in two (2) or more Classifications dur:  
ing the second half of the shift shall receive the wage rate o  
the highest Classification for such period.  
-36-  
Section 7. Any Contractor who signs this Agreement to per-  
form work covered by this Agreement has the option of sign-  
ing any other Agreement negotiated by the State of Indiana  
District Council of Laborers and any other Empioyer Group  
covering any and all work of the Construction Industry cov-  
ered by the Laborers and pay the applicable wages, fringes  
and other conditions contained therein.  
Section 8. Upon request by the Employer, the Employees’  
training and/or work record will be made available.  
Section 9. Employers may utilize “Key Personnel” on any  
work performed in the geographic jurisdiction of the Unton.  
“Key Personnel” is defined as being members of the Union  
who have been in the contractor’s employment more than  
three months. The number of “Key Personnel” to be cleared  
in will be determined in the pre-job conference. The balance  
of the Employees, if available, shall be employed from the  
individual Local Union's membership. [f the Local Union is  
unable to provide the balance of Employees, the Employer  
may utilize whatever means are necessary to man the work.  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### INDUSTRY FUND  
It is understood that the Associated General of  
Indiana, Inc., an Indiana corporation not-for-profit has estab-  
lished the Construction Advancement Program of Central  
Indiana (hereinafter “Program”). The purpose of such  
Program to be to generally promote and improve the con-  
struction industry, without limiting the generality of the fore-  
30ing, apprenticeship training, advanced skill training,  
supervisory training, improvement of public and personnel  
elations, market development, standardization of contracts  
-37-  
and specifications, developments of reljations with others  
(Gnejuding the public, architects, suppliers and laborer), co}-  
lection and distribution of information useful and beneficial  
to the construction or contracting industry, and otherwise  
promote and advance the interest and common good of the  
construction contracting industry in the state. It is under-  
stood that each Employer will be furnished a copy of the  
Articles of Incorporation upon request and that, subject to  
the foregoing limitations, such Articles of Incorporation may  
be amended from time to time by the Board of Directors.  
Each Employer shall contribute an amount per clock hour  
for each hour worked by each of his Foremen, Journeymen  
and Apprentices covered by this Agreemeni. Tht hourly  
amount shall be between five cents ($.05} to ten cents ($.10),  
as determined by the Trustees of the Program, provided that  
a minimum of three months’ notice shall be provided by the  
trustees before the amount may be adjusted within said  
range.  
Each Employer shall pay the contribution to the Program on  
or before the 15th day of each month on account of hours for  
which such employees were compensated during the pre-  
ceding calendar month. The Employer shall also provide the  
Program with a copy of the monthly remittance report the  
Employer furnishes to the Indiana State District Council of  
Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund showing the hours  
worked by Employees covered by this Agreement for which  
contributions are being made to said fund for such month.  
lt is expressly understood and agreed that the Board of  
Directors of the Program have the authority to conduct an  
audit of the records of any Employer to determine whether  
such Employer is contributing to the Program in accordance  
-38-  
with the provisions of this Article. It is further understood  
that, in the event an Employer is determined to be delinquent  
and/or to have failed to make contributions as required in  
this Article, any legal expenses of the Program, including  
attorney’s fees, court costs, and other expenses incurred in  
the audit and collection of such delinquent and/or non-con-  
tributed funds shall be borne by the Employer. It is further  
understood and agreed that such Employer shall be obligat-  
ed to pay any delinquent contributions to the Program with  
interest charged at the rate then applicable to Internal  
Revenue Service collection of delinquent and/or unpaid  
taxes.  
It is expressly understood and agreed that no Employee,  
Employer, or Union shall have any vested or proprietary  
interest in or right to any sum constituting a part of said  
Program.  
### ARTICLE XXV(a)  
### CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROGRESS  
### COUNCIL OF CENTRAL INDIANA  
(LOCAL #120 & LOCAL #204 ONLY)  
Section 1. The Parties to this Agreement agree to establish a  
market recovery program. The program will be a not-for-  
profit corporation and will be governed by a Board of  
Directors consisting of equal number representing Unions  
and Employers who agree to participate. Employers further  
agree to fund the program through contributions not to  
exceed ten cents ($.10) per hour worked by Employees of  
participating Unions. Details of the Program are contained in  
the Articles of Incorporation and ByLaws which are made a  
part of thts Agreement by reference.  
-39-  
*The Board of Directors of the Construction Industry  
Progress Council of Central Indiana will notify directly all  
signatories to this Agreement of the specific amount to be  
paid into the Construction [ndustry Progress Council of  
Central Indiana.  
### ARTICLE XXVI  
### SCHEDULE OF FRINGE BENEFIT  
### CONTRIBUTIONS  
Section 1. In addition to the hourly wage rates listed here-  
inafter, Fringe Bencfit Contributions to the Health & Welfare  
Fund, Pension Fund, Training Trust Fund and Industry Fund  
for the Desianated Periods shall be as follows:  
#{20-#204  
Industry Only  
H-W Pension Training Fund CIPCC] Testing  
6/1/05 to 5/3106 = M450 $2.1 5.35 § 05 $06 $07  
6/1/06 to S317 = $5.00 $2.25 $35 $05 $6 $07  
GAT to = $233 8S $ 05 $6  
### ARTICLE XXVII  
### HOURLY WAGE RATES  
Section 1. For the purpose of clarification and to assist in  
determining the hourly wage rates applicable to specific  
Classifications of Work, the following hourly wage rates  
apply in the given Area. Jt is understood and agreed that  
pyramiding of Category Rates and/or Foreman Rates is not  
the intention of this Agreement and shall not be permitted.  
-40-  
#120-#204  
   
   
Only Drug  
Wages H-W Pension Trammg JF CIPCCI Testing Total  
[#120  
1S - 5/3106 = $20.18 $4.50 $215 $35 3.05 $.06 $27.36  
106 - 5/3107 = $20.68 $5.00 $2.25 $.35 $.05 $.06 $.07 $28.46  
107 ~ 5/3108 $21.23 $5.50 $235 $35 $05 $.06 $.07 $2961  
ocal #204  
$19.07 450 $2.15 $35 $.05 $.06 $07 $26.25  
f106- 5/3107 $19.52 $5.00 $225 $35 $05 $.06 $2730  
(07 - 5/3108 $20.02 $5.50 $235 $35 $.05 $.06 $.07 $28.40  
Anal #274  
= $4.50 $215 $35 $.07 $26.30  
f06- 5/31/07 $19.63 $5.00 $2.25 $35 $.05 $.07 $27.35  
/107-581/08 $20.13 $550 $235 $35 $.05 $.07 $28.45  
seal #741  
/H05- 5106 $19.08 $4.50 $215 $35 $.05 $.07 $26.20  
$1953 $5.00 $225 $35 $05 $0} $27.25  
5/3108 $20.03 $5.50 §235 $35 $.05 $.07 $28.35  
socal #1047  
S816 = $1788 $450 $215 $35) $.07 $25.0  
$18.33 $5.00 $225 $35 $.05 $.07 $26.05  
41407 - 5/3108 $18.83 $5.50 $235 $35 $.05 $.07 $27.15  
ocal #1112  
VIS -53106 $18.76 $4.50 $215 $.35 $.05 $.07 $25.88  
¥i06- 58107 $1921 $5.00 $225 $.35 $.05 $.07 $26.93  
¥1/07- 5/3108 $19.71 $550 $235 $35 $.05 $.07 $28.03  
I. Is the Basic Hourly Wage Rate and shall  
nclude the following:  
Building and Construction Laborers  
Scaffold Builders (other than for Masons or Plasterers)  
-41-  
Ironworker Tenders  
Mechanic Tenders  
Civil Engineer Tenders and Surveyor Tenders  
Rodmen & Chainmen  
Roofer’s Tenders  
Railroad Workers  
Masonry Wall Washers (interior & exterior)  
Cement Finisher Tenders  
Carpenter Tenders  
Tenders of all other Crafts not listed  
All Portable Water Pumps with discharge up to  
three (3) inches  
Waterproofing  
Handling of creosote lumber or like treated materia!  
(excluding railroad material)  
Asphalt Rakers & Lutemen  
Kettlemen  
Earth Compactors  
Jackmen & Sheetmen working ditches deeper than  
six (6) feet in depth  
Laborers working ditches six (6) feet in depth or deeper  
Assembly of Unicrete Pump  
Tile Layer (sewer or field) & Sewer Pipe Layers  
(metallic or non-metallic)  
Motor driven wheelbarrows and concrete buggies  
Hyster Operators  
Pump Crete Assemblers  
Core Drill Operators  
Cement, Lime or Silica Clay Handlers (bulk or bag)  
Handling of Toxic Materials Damaging to Clothing  
Pneumatic Spikers  
Deck Engine and Winch Operators  
-42-.  
Vater Main & Cable Ducking (metallic & non-metallic)  
creed Man or Screw Operator on Asphalt Paver  
hain Saw and Demolition Saw Operators  
oncrete Saw  
oncrete Conveyor Assemblers  
.pplying of curing compound  
inking of wellpoints  
ewatering header systems  
ATEGORY II. shall include the following and will be paid  
fifty ($.50) cents per hour above the basic  
rate:  
laster Tenders  
Aason Tenders  
Aortar Mixers  
Velders (acetylene or electric)  
utting Torch or Burner  
ement Nozzle Laborers  
ement Gun Operators  
caffold Builders when working for Plasterers  
caffold Builders when working for Masons  
Vater Blast Machine Operators  
ir Tool Operators and all Pneumatic Tool Operators,  
Air and Electric Vibrators and Chipping Hammer  
Operators  
sbestos removal  
azardous waste removal  
ead based paint removal  
ll Boiler Setters Laborers, including expediters,  
bottom men, bell men, and Mason Tenders  
ATEGORY IH. shall cover the following:  
aborer Foreman  
-43-  
Mason Tender Foreman  
General Foreman  
Laborer Foreman — rate shall be one dollar ($1.00) per hou  
over the basic hourly rate of pay liste  
herein.  
Mason Tender Foreman — rate shall be one dollar and thirt  
cents ($1.30) per hour over th  
basic hourly rate of pay liste  
herein.  
General Foreman — rate shall be one dollar and fifty cen  
($1.50) per hour over the basic hourl  
rate of pay listed herein.  
CATEGORY iV. shali cover ite following aud be put  
one dollar ($1.00) per hour over the basi  
hourly rate of pay as Hsted herein.  
Dynamite Men  
Drillers — air track or wagon drilling for explosives  
Laborer Specialist  
Concrete Finisher / Form Setter (contractor option)  
Firestop Installer  
CATEGORY V. shall include Watchmen and Gatemen (da  
or night) whose wage rates and fringe ben  
efit hours will be negotiated on an individ  
ual basis by and between the Employer an  
the Local Union involved at the pre-jo  
conference.  
CATEGORY VI. Shall cover the following:  
Caisson and Tunnel Work in compressed & free air  
Basic Laborers Rate:  
Cage Tenders  
-44.  
Dump Men  
Flagman, Signalman, Top Laborers  
Rod Men  
rhe following will be paid twenty ($.20) cents per hour  
above the basic rate:  
Concrete Repairmen  
Lock Tenders (Pressure Side)  
Motor Men  
Muckers  
Grout Machine  
Track Layers  
Air Hoist  
Key Board  
Agitator Car  
Car Pushers  
Concrete Laborers  
Grout Laborers  
Lock Tenders (Free Air Side}  
Steel Setters  
Tuggers  
Switchmen  
The following will be paid thirty ($.30) cents per hour above  
the basic rate:  
Mucking Machine  
Laser Beam  
Liner Plate & Ring Setter  
Shield Drivers  
Power Knife  
Welders — Burners  
Pipe Jacking Machine  
Skinners  
Maintenance Technician  
Miner  
Bricklayer Tenders  
Concrete Blowers  
Drillers  
Erectors  
Form Men  
Jackhammermen  
Mining Machine  
The following will be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour above  
the basic rate:  
Dynamite Men  
Driilers-atr track or wagon drilling for explosives  
1. The premium over and above wages and classifications  
for all Employees working in compressed air shall be  
as follows:  
0-15 Pounds $ 1.00 per hr.  
16 - 20 Pounds $ 1.50 per hr.  
21 - 26 Pounds $ 2.00 per hr.  
27 - 33 Pounds $ 3.00 per hr.  
34 & over Pounds $ 4.00 per hr.  
2. The scale of wages for Labor Foreman and Sub-Foreman  
shall be as follows:  
General Foreman $1.00 per hr.  
Foreman 0.50 per hr.  
*CATEGORY VII. shall cover High Time Pay for Stacks &  
Chimneys.  
*To be the same as set forth in the Laborers’ International  
Union of North America Agreement covering Stacks,  
-46-  
Chimneys and Silos.  
### CATEGORY Vill -RAILROAD MAINTENANCE: | shall  
cover the following:  
Section 1. Al! rat] maintenance, rehabilitation, and other  
work on mainlines, sidings and service lines that are let by  
railroad companies, transit commissions, transit authorities,  
public or private owners of such facilities, which includes  
but is not limited to the following and work performed will  
be paid for under the wage rates contained herein.  
(a)  
(b)  
{c)  
id}  
€)  
f)  
The replacement of components and adjustment in  
alignment of grades of existing rail facilities.  
Repair or replacement of components of fences, cattle  
guards, snow sheds, motor car set off, and other facili-  
ties located on railroad, public or private properties,  
and right-of-ways of same.  
The care of railroad and transit commissions and tran-  
sit authorities owned properties, public or private,  
including patrolling, inspection, mowing, brush cutting  
and spraying, drainage work and all general caretaking  
work.  
The repair or replacement of roadway or railway cross-  
ings.  
Painting and replacement of components of railway  
bridges and signal lines and signs.  
All emergency work, such as snow removal, flood  
damage, damages occurring on derailments, including  
all clean-up and repair in connection therewith which  
may be performed by the Employer.  
-47-  
(gz) All maintenance, rehabilitation, track removal and  
other work that may be performed for the railroad com-  
panies and transit commissions and/or transit authori-  
ties on their properties, or on public and private prop-  
erties, including relocation of existing tracks where  
such relocation of tracks are not in connection with  
buildings, highway, heavy or engineering projects.  
(h} It shall also include afi new Construction in conjunc-  
tion with a building, highway, heavy or engineering  
project on railroad transit commissions, transit  
authorities, public or private owners of such facilittes.  
(i) It shall include railroad construction where rails are  
laid to a new facility to service same, whether new or  
used materials are used.  
CATEGORY IX — Apprentices — Mandatory Apprentice  
Language  
Section 1. New applicants for membership who cannot pro-  
vide reasonable proof of 4,000 or more hours of employment  
as a Construction Craft Laborer (or, alternatively, cannot  
demonstrate equivalent skills in a placement examination  
administered by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training  
Committee (JATC) shall, whenever possible, enter the  
Apprenticeship program. Any person entering but failing tc-  
maintain and complete his or her Apprenticeship shali not be  
employed by the Employer as a Journey Worker under this  
Agreement. The failure of any Apprentice to maintain his o1  
her Apprenticeship status shall obligate the Employer to dis  
charge such person upon notice from the Union.  
Section 2.The Apprenticeship and Training Standard—  
approved by the Federal Bureau of Apprenticeship an  
-4B-  
Training or State Apprenticeship Committee are hereby  
ncorporated by reference as a part of this Agreement.  
Section 3. The Apprentice wage rates:  
Hours of Credit Wage Rate  
Ist period 0-1000 hours 75% of journeyworker rate  
2nd period 1001-2000 hours 85% of journeyworker rate  
3rd period 2001-3000 hours 95% of journeyworker rate  
4th period 3001-4000 hours = 100% of journeyworker rate  
Section 4. Entry into the Apprenticeship program shall be  
-ontrolled by the JATC, which shall employ appropriate test-  
ing and screening procedures. An Apprentice advances from  
yne hours-of credit and wage-rate category to another only  
ipon determination of satisfactory performance by the  
[ATC, which shall have the authority to grant accelerated  
redit where warranted by the performance of an individual  
ipprentice.  
section 5. The Employer shall participate in the  
\pprenticeship program by accepting Apprentices for  
mployment upon referral by the Union. The Employer is  
iot obligated to accept more than one (1) Apprentice for  
very five (5) Journeyworkers commencing with the sixth  
aborer employed.  
ection 6. The Employer may not employ an Apprentice  
nti} at teast one Journeyworker is employed and thereafter  
ay Not employ more than one (1) Apprentice for every  
dditional three (3) Journeyworkers.,  
ection 7. An Apprentice should, whenever possible, be  
tated by the Employer through different types af work so  
. to become trained in a variety of operations and work  
-49-  
skills, Where the Employer is unable to provide a  
Apprentice with experience in the full range of craft skills  
the JATC may request the Local Union to reassign th  
Apprentice to other employment in order to provide tha  
experience. For so long as the Employer is able to provid  
the necessary range of employment experience, th  
Employer may choose to retain the apprentice from job tc  
job but shall notify the Local Union and JATC of al) reas  
signments.  
Section 8. An Apprentice shall not be penalized for taking  
off from work to attend offsite training (though time off fo:  
training ts unpaid).  
### ARTICLE XXVUI  
### GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE  
Section I. Any provision contained herein that is contrarn  
to or held in violation of the Labor-Management Relation  
Act of 1947, as amended, or of any other law now in force  
or hereafter enacted, or, hereafter becoming effective, shal  
be void and of no force or effect, and this Agreement shal  
be construed as if said void provision herein were not a pat  
thereof, it being intended, however, that the other provision  
of this Agreement shal) not be affected thereby. 1t is furthe  
agreed that, should compliance with any law or amendmen  
therefore, or any order or regulation issued thereunder, nov  
or hereafter in force and effect, prohibit the carrying out c  
any of the provisions of this Agreement, then to the extent c-  
such deviation or prohibition, this Agreement shall b  
deemed to have been automatically amended effective on th  
effective date of such law, order or regulations. Suc  
amendment to this Agreement shall remain in effect only s  
long as said law, amendment, order or regulation continuc—  
-50-  
in force or until the expiration of this Agreement, whichever  
event shall first occur.  
### ARTICLE XXIX  
### BONDING  
Section 1. Every Employer who employs members of the  
Union and agrees to be covered or maintain the provisions of  
this Agreement may be required by the Union to give a sure-  
ty bond payable to the Laborers Benefit Funds to insure the  
payment of fringe benefit obligations accruing under this  
Agreement. The Employer shail furnish a surety bond as  
prescribed below within fourteen (14) days after notice from  
the Laborers’ Fringe Benefit Funds that such is required.  
The amount of the surety bond shall be as follows:  
1 through 10 men....,.... $15,000.00  
at 15 men $20,006.00  
at 20 $25,000.00  
at 25 MEN $30,000.00  
at 30 men or over ......... $35,000.00  
section 2, The Fringe Benefit Funds may require an  
‘mployer to give the surety bond provided for herein if at  
iny time: (1) the Employer has been late fifteen (15) days or  
nore in the payment of any of its monetary obligations  
inders this Agreement; or (2) the Employer has been late in  
he payment of any such obligation two (2) consecutive  
imes during the immediately preceding twelve (12) months;  
r (3) the Employer has not worked within the Union's geo-  
taphical jurisdiction under this Agreement during any of  
ie immediately preceding twelve (12) months.  
after giving and providing such surety bond the Employer  
not late in the payment of its monetary obligations during  
-51-  
the next following twelve (12) months, the Employer shall  
be released from the requirement to provide a surety bond  
unless the conditions specified in the first sentence of this  
Section reoccur,  
Section 3. When a surety bond is demanded, the Employer  
will obtain such in the required amount, from a company  
acceptable to the Fringe Benefit Funds, and the benefit funds  
specified in this Agreement shall be the sole beneficiaries of  
the bond. The bond will be given to the Fringe Benefit  
Funds where it will be kept.  
Section 4. Should an Employer fail or refuse to provide the  
required surety bond, when such is demanded by the Union  
or should an Employer fail to keep a bond in effect at ail  
times said Employer is required to have one, the Union shall  
have the right to strike and/or picket, after notice, and use all  
other legal and/or economic means to cause the Employer tc-  
comply with this Article.  
### ARTICLE XXX  
### REALTH CARE  
Section 1. Should either the State or Federal Governmen  
pass lepislation mandating all Employers to participate in .  
national or statewide health care plan, it is agreed by dy  
Parties to this Agreement fo automatically open thi  
Agreement within thirty (30) days of such passage to discus  
same.  
### ARTICLE XXXI  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM  
The Union and the Associated General Contractors c—  
Indiana, Inc., and/or signatory Employer, hereby agree thi  
the drug testing program set forth in the Indiana Unio  
-5D-  
“onstruction Resource Center Substance Abuse Policy  
Policy”) is incorporated by reference herein and made a  
art of this Agreement. The Trustees of the Indiana Union  
“onstruction Industry Substance Abuse Trust Fund (“Fund’’)  
hali have the authority to amend the terms of the Policy to  
vhich employees working under this Agreement will be sub-  
ect.  
The udministration of the Policy will be funded by contribu-  
ions to the Fund. The Trustees of the Fund shall have the  
uthority to determine the amount to be contributed by sig-  
latory Employers to defray the cost of the Poltcy. The  
Crustees may set the contribution at any rate up to ten cents  
$.10) per hour depending on the Trustees’ assessment of the  
umount needed to fund the Policy adequately to fulfill its  
Once the rate has been set, the Trustees may  
idjust the rate of contribution from time to time within the  
v~arameters set forth above, provided the Trustces give the  
mployer(s) at least sixty (60) days notice of any such  
idjustment.  
t is agreed that the Employer contribution to this fund is not  
att af the wage/fringe package under this Agreement, but is  
nstead a separate additional contribution made by the  
imployer solely to fund the Policy. Accordingly, the estab-  
ishment or adjustment of the rate of contribution by the  
rustees shall not affect the wage rates or the amounts set  
wth for contributions to fringe benefit funds under this  
\greement. °  
### ARTICLE XXXII  
### EFFECTIVE DATE  
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in full force and effect fro  
June 1, 2005 when ratified by a majority of members of th  
Labor Relations Committee of the Associated Gener  
Contractors of Indiana and signed by the Laborer  
International Union of North America, State of Indian  
District Council, for and on behalf of its affiliated Loc  
Unions #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047 and #1112 and sha  
continue in full force and effect for the periods mentione  
herein, expiring as of May 31, 2008.  
In case either Party to this Agreemeni wishes iv chaiige ih  
Agreement, at least sixty (60) days written notice shal! b  
given to the other Party prior to the expiration date. In cas  
no such notice is given by either Party, the Agreement sha  
continue in effect from year to year until such notice is give  
at least sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date.  
### PARTY OF THE FIRST PART  
### LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE  
### OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA  
   
Philip G. Kénney  
### FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  
Mason Contractors Association of Indianapolis  
Trade Division of Associated Building Contractors of  
Lafayette Inc.  
-54-  
Southern Branch of Associated General Contractors of  
Indiana inc.  
Madison County Contractors Association  
Marion Contractors Association Inc.  
### PARTY OF THE SECOND PART  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH  
### AMERICA, STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL,  
### FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL  
, #274, #74) HIO47 & #1112  
    
     
W. Lee, Secy-Treas & Bus Mgr  
-55-  
### DIRECTORY  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF NORTH AMERICA OFFICES  
Laborers’ International Union of North America  
905 - 16th Street Northwest  
Washington DC 20006-1765  
Terence M. O'Sullivan, General President  
Armand E. Sabitoni, General Secretary-Treasure  
Laborers’ International Union of North America  
Mihwest Regional Office  
1 North Old State Capitol Plaza, Suite 525  
Springfield, IL 62701  
Edward Smith, Assistant to the General President  
Vice President & Midwest Regional Manager  
Laborers’ International Union of North America  
State of Indiana  
Stephen Folz, International Representative  
3528 Koring Rd  
Evansville, IN 47720  
-56-  
### DIRECTORY  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF NORTH AMERICA  
Laborers’ International Union of North America  
State of Indiana District Council  
425 § 4th Street  
Terre Haute, IN 47807  
Phone = (8/2) 235-6083  
Fax (812) 232-4420  
E-mail INLDC@aol.com  
Jerry W. Lee, Secretary Treasurer & Business Manager  
Michaet J. Short, Field Representative & Organizer  
### LOCAL UNION 41  
### HAMMOND  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Hammond, Indiana and  
Vicinity of Lake County, including all territories west of  
~line Avenue, Lake Michigan Shoreline to [llinois State  
Ine and south Counties of Newton and Jasper, Indiana.  
tichard Greene, Business Manager  
tudy Sparks, Field Representative  
sick Henson, Field Representative  
Ym Kevin Roach, Field Representative  
415 Kennedy Avenue  
lammond, IN 46323  
hone (219) 844-1315  
AX (219) 844-1325  
LIUNALOCAL4! @aol.com  
-57-  
### LOCAL UNION 81  
### VALPARAISO  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Gary, Indiana & Vicinity,  
including all] territories east of Cline Avenue, Lake County,  
Indiana, a)] territory north of U.S. Highway No. 20 Porter  
County, Indiana, including all Lake Michigan Shore Front  
east of Cline Avenue in Lake and Porter Counties and  
LaPorte and Starke Counties, Indiana.  
Mike Demonja, Business Manager  
Dale Keene, Field Representative  
Agustin Carreon, Field Representative  
Michael Campbell, Field Representative  
Frank Bova, Jr., Field Representative  
253 South Washington Street  
Valparaiso, IN 46383  
Phone (219) 464-0695  
Phone (800) 858-7631  
Fax (219) 465-7682  
E-mait localf8! @verizon-net  
### LOCAL UNION 120  
### INDIANAPOLIS  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Marion and Shelby Counties  
Indiana.  
David Frye, Business Manager  
Nathaniel Clancy, Field Representative  
Gary Coss, Field Representative  
Sherman Watkins Jr, Field Representative  
Chris Brickey, Field Representative  
Dwight Smith, Field Representative  
-59-  
Ben Adams, Organizer  
James W. Daniels, Organizer  
1520 East Riverside Drive  
Indianapolis, IN 46202  
Phone = (317) 634-8551  
Fax (317) 685-1237  
E-mail  DFrye!20Laborers@aol.com  
### LOCAL UNION 204  
### TERRE HAUTE  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Clay, Fountain, Greene,  
Hendricks, Owen, Parke, Putnam, Sullivan, Vermillion, Vigo  
and Warren Counties, Indiana.  
Charles Toth, Business Manager and Secretary-Treasurer  
Bobby Earle, Field Representative  
Chuck Toth, Field Representative  
401 Poplar Street  
Terre Haute IN 47807  
Phone (812} 232-0989  
Fax (812) 232-0980  
E-mail laborers @gte.net  
### LOCAL UNION 213  
### FORT WAYNE  
seographical Jurisdiction of Adams, Allen, DeKalb,  
‘untington, Noble, Steuben, Wabash, Wells and Whitley  
-ounties, Indiana.  
eroy Jackson, Jr, Business Manager  
Aark Jarrell, Field Representative  
700 S Anthony BIvd  
-59-  
Fort Wayne IN 46806  
Phone (260) 744-5255  
Phone (260) 744-5355  
Fax (260) 745-7601  
E-mail local213 @verizon.net  
### LOCAL UNION 274  
### LAFAYETTE  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Benton, Boone, Carroll, Cass,  
Clinton, Montgomery, Pulaski, Tippecanoe and White  
Counties and covering Kokomo Indiana, Fulton, Howard,  
Miami and Tipton Counties, Indiana.  
Leland Mallory, Secretary-Treasurer & Business Manazer  
Jim Terry, President & Field Representative  
Rick Williams, Field Representative  
{734 Main Street  
Lafayette, IN 47904  
Phone (765) 742-4876  
Fax (765) 423-4709  
E-mail local274@insightbb.com  
Kokomo Branch Phone (765) 457-4453  
Fax = (765) 457-8245  
-§0-  
### LOCAL UNION 561  
### EVANSVILLE  
Geographical Jurisdiction covering Daviess, Dubois,  
Gibson, Knox, Pike, Posey, Spencer, Vanderburgh and  
Warrick Counties, Indiana; and Crittenden, Henderson,  
Union and Webster Counties in Kentucky.  
Barry Russell, Business Manager & President  
Harlin Scott, Secretary-Treasurer & Field Representative  
Kenneth Overton, Recording Secretary & Field  
Representative  
Donald Angel, Vice-President and Field Representative  
Stephen Wilson, Field Representative  
951 North Park Drive  
Evansville IN 47710  
Phone (812) 425-3191  
Toll Free 1-888-463-8646  
Fax (812) 425-2421  
E-mai) barry @laborers56}.org  
Vincennes Branch Phone (812) 882-1555  
### LOCAL UNION 645  
### SOUTH BEND  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Elkhart, Kosciusko, LaGrange,  
Marshall and St. Joseph Counties, Indiana.  
Slenn Williams, Business Manager  
id Barrier, Pteld Representative  
W Avenue, Suite 140  
,0uth Bend, IN 46629  
= (574) 287-2967  
"AX (574) 287-2968  
“mat  jocal645@aol.com  
-61-  
### LOCAL UNION 74!  
### BLOOMINGTON  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Bartholomew, Brown,  
Dearborn, Decatur, Franktin, Jackson, Jennings, Johnson,  
Lawrence, Martin, Monroe, Morgan, Ohio, Orange and  
Ripley Counttes, Indiana.  
Roger Kent, Business Manager  
Rick Bryant, Field Representative  
Bobby Minton, Field Representative  
Albert “Ray” Hobbs, Field Representative  
7745 South Fairfax Road  
Rloomington. IN 47401  
Phone = (812) 824-2605  
Fax (812) 824-2185  
E-mail LIUNALOCAL741@msn.com  
Columbus Branch Phone (812) 372-2211  
Lawrenceburg Branch Phone (812) 537-5128  
### LOCAL UNION 795  
### NEW ALBANY  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Clark, Crawford, Floyd,  
Harrison, Jefferson, Perry, Scott, Switzerland and  
Washington Counties, Indiana.  
Fred Bowles, Secretary-Treasurer & Business Manager  
Robert S. Norrington, Field Representative  
}213 State Street  
New Albany IN 47150  
Phone = (812) 944-6473  
Fax {812} 944-6474  
E-mail laborers795@sbcglobal.net  
-62-  
### LOCAL UNION 1047  
### RICHMOND  
Geogruphical Jurisdiction of Fayette, Henry, Rush, Wayne  
and Union Counties, indtana.  
Russell Pierson, Business Manager  
Jack Baker, Field Representative  
1010 South 9th Street PO Box 38  
Richmond, IN 47374  
Phone (765) 966-2005  
Fax (765) 966-7080  
E-mail jack baker @aol.com  
### LOCAL UNION [112  
### MUNCIE  
Geographical Jurisdiction of Blackford, Delaware, Grant,  
Hancock, Jay, Madison and Randolph Counties,  
Indiana.  
Rudy Rudisill, Bustness Manager  
Ear! Redwine, Field Representative  
Lloyd Beaty, Field Representative  
115 West 20th Street  
Muncie IN 47302  
Phone = (765) 282-5815  
ax (765) 286-7150  
tmail laborerslocal!  
-63-  
### COUNTY  
Adams  
Afjen  
Bartholomew  
Benton  
Blackford  
Boone  
Brown  
Carroll  
Cass  
Clark  
Clay  
Ciinton  
Crawford  
Crittenden, KY  
Daviess  
Dearborn  
Decatur  
DeKalb  
Delaware  
Dubais  
Elkhast  
Fayette  
Floyd  
Fountain  
Franklin  
Fulton  
Gibson  
Grant  
Greene  
Hamilton  
### LOCAL  
213  
213  
7A}  
274  
  
274  
795  
204  
274  
795  
361  
361  
744  
74)  
213  
1212  
361  
645  
1047  
795  
74h  
274  
56)  
1412  
1112  
### COUNTY  
Hancock  
Harrison  
Henderson, KY  
Hendricks  
Henry  
Howard  
Huntington  
Jackson  
Jasper  
Jay  
Jefferson  
Jennings  
Johnson  
  
  
Kosciusko  
LaGrange  
Luoke-West Half  
Lake-East Half  
LuPorte  
Lawrence  
Madison  
Marion  
Marsha}}  
Martin  
Miami  
Monroe  
Montgomery  
Morgan  
Newton  
Noble  
### LOCAL  
1142  
795  
56}  
204  
1047  
274  
213  
T41  
  
795  
1432  
126  
645  
741  
274  
74d  
274  
741  
Dis  
### COUNTY  
Ohio  
Orange  
Owen  
Parke  
Perry  
Pike  
Porter  
Posey  
Pulaski  
Putnam  
Randolph  
Ripley  
Rush  
St. Joseph  
Scott  
Shelby  
Spencer  
Starke  
Steuben  
Sullivan  
### LOCAL  
741  
744  
204  
204  
795  
561  
3t  
S61  
274  
204  
1112  
741  
104?  
645  
795  
120  
561  
8!  
213  
204  
### COUNTY  
Switzerland  
Tippecanoe  
Tipton  
Union  
Union, KY  
Vanderburgh  
Vermiljion  
Vigo  
Wabash  
Warren  
Warrick  
Washington  
Wayne  
Webster, KY  
Wells  
White  
Whitley  
-65-  
### LOCAL  
795  
274  
274  
1047  
561  
561  
204  
204  
213  
204  
561  
795  
1047  
56]  
213  
274  
213  
nae2hs ne  
wee 2S uae 3 ne ol XR  
ewe EQ +  
= =  
Ke lor ree 2NR + wt?  
=z = = «E28  
5. xa  
est a » om Seas  
### FR  
rae em - tag RR  
FaalAe = =  
rea He wt 28 i i e >  
a  
= nx. fan = wrth Zz  
&  
oa wo?  
Zz  
o Zum San  
op tee oer BR angst  
unmet unatis  
Rm ee  
‘ = ». 258  
reo OR »~ ge e225  
i = = an?  
a, a wt® 5.  
nem Ont  
wo un S28 ur aris  
- -o  
= Fx TSR  
we 2K ot  
2? : z-m ENR  
we Fu Fn ER  
   
   
   
ian  
wn te rao RS  
  
ra Shs  
Bew®S ‘ ets  
3 Hw 28  
eat tan  
  
fh Betts  
72  
e-8R  
Zz wrt?  
a «522  
     
on Sry  
we ot AiR  
e  
= 2uR =  
t Ts we  
=z = w=?  
2 Bn aes  
aelR&  
were  
eae em eran  
saa  
ene  
ne = AFH  
    
  
re  
a  
ate  
~2  
  
=z  
      
unatis  
ols  
= «FAS  
-  
ates  
o  
an oe  
### SERS  
  
tag  
nem lik  
we  
uw  
  
an  
ares  
<2  
ae  
meee  
  
§ MT  
je cee  
      
yume is  
wee iS wan SER  
- ree 2X  
= owtkR  
  
3% w-2 FAK  
Oo #9  
  
were uw  
=z wt  
  
=  
Bn »  
un tas oe BR  
  
  
  
ratte Ke KEN  
i= 2° 8K  
w  
no  
ane aR not?  
ren  
= ,thR Ene  
re oSRS yu  
=  
- Pin  
  
-67-