   
   
To the Members of Local 872  
We are pleased to bring to you this Labor-Management Agreement. Its provisions are the  
result not only of the energy and effort of your Negotiating Committee, but also of the input  
by many of you who attended meetings, gave us ideas and finally, ratified this package.  
Your participation is much appreciated. As you all know, we are in a period i in which non-  
union and anti-union pressures have been relentless. It takes the constancy of the members  
standing solidly behind the negotiators to protect the gains we have achieved over many  
years of tough bargaining.  
This union continues to prosper because it continues to offer employers a service they can’t  
obtain in any other way than through a Union Contract. This Agreement gives a pledge to  
employers that they will have. available top-quality. Laborers whose training and skills are  
second to none. This means that each member has an obligation to provide a fair days work  
for a fair days pay and to show by the excellence of his or her performance that Union  
Laborers are the best investment an employer can make.  
It is good to know that I can count on each and every one of you: "You have my thanks and  
my best.wishes for a safe and secure future. a ae  
Fraternally,  
TS fomen. Ae  
Thomas White,  
Business Manager-Secretary Treasurer  
And Leborers Local #872 Executive Board —  
David “McUnion” McCune - President  
Ronnie “Hollywood” Norwood — Vice President  
Patrick “Zeek” Donnan — Recording Secretary  
Keith Martial — Executive Board  
Frank Ocegueda — Executive Board  
Victor Espinoza — Executive Board  
Table of Contents  
   
   
Preamble cv sob 4  
“Article | - 5  
"Article Il - UNION 7  
### _ Article Ill - STRIKES-LOCKOUTS-JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES. 9  
### Article [V - BUSINESS AGENT AND JOB STEWARD |  
### AND SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES AND DISPUTES...... 10  
### Article V -GONFLICTING AGREEMENTS........ 12  
### Article VI - QUALIFIGATIONS:MOST FAVORED NATION. 12  
Article VII - 3  
Article vill - mmm 13  
‘Article | IX - WORK 14  
### Article X ADDENDUM A - TUNNEL 18  
### Article Xl — LABORERS WAGE RATES.  
### Article XI] — CRAFT 24  
### Article Xill - SCHEDULE B CONTRIBUTIONS  
### PAYABLE TO TRUST 25  
### Article XIV -APPRENTICESHIP  
### Article XV — APPENDIX B OUT OF WORK 29  
### Article XVI —- COMMON WORKING RULES FOR 29  
### Article — ZONE PAY/TRAVEL TIME. 33  
### Article XVII] - PUBLIC WORKS.......... |  
### Article XIX — EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.  
### Article XX — GENERAL SAVINGS 36  
### Article XXI — CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND  
### INDUSTRY 37  
### Article — TERMS -TERMINATION — RENEWAL. 37  
### Article XXIII — TRUST FUND CONTRIBUTIONS. 38  
### Article XXIV — TRUST FUND RIGHTS AND REMEDIES,  
### DUES 40  
Article XXV —  
### Appendix A - DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE DETECTION AND  
### PREVENTION PROGRAM...........  
### Signature Page — ASSOCIATION SIGNATURE/UNION  
### SIGNATURE  
   
### HERS TET TAHT  
Labor Agreement  
Between  
Associated General Contractors Association  
And  
Laborers International Union of North America  
No. 872 |  
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into this 1" day of Jul 2005, on behalf of those eligible Contractors  
who now and/or hereafter may have designated Associated General Contractors Association  
(hereinafter known as the AGC), parties of the first part (hereinafter referred to as the “Contractors”  
### or “Employers”), and the LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA,  
LOCAL 872, parties of the second part (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).  
### WITNESSETH:  
### PURPOSES:  
WHEREAS, the Contractors are engaged in general contract construction work in Southern  
Nevada; and,  
WHEREAS, in the performance of their present and future contracting operations, the  
Contractors are employing and will employ large numbers of Laborers; and,  
WHEREAS, the Contractors desire to be assured of their ability to procure employees for all  
of the work which they may do in the area hereinafter defined as Southern Nevada in sufficient  
numbers and with the necessary skill to assure continuity of work in the completion of their  
construction contracts; and,  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties to establish uniform terms and conditions of  
employment covering the Laborers employed by the Contractors, and,  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties hereto to provide, establish and put into practice  
effective methods for the settlement of misunderstandings, disputes or grievances between the parties  
hereto to the end that the Contractors are assured continuity of employment and industrial peace is  
maintained and the business of the industry efficiently increased;  
NOW, THEREFORE in consideration of the premises and of the respective covenants and  
agreements of the parties hereto, each of which shall be interdependent, it is hereby agreed:  
### ARTICLE 1  
### COVERAGE  
This Agreement shall apply to and cover all employees of the Contractors employed to  
perform or performing construction work, as such employees and construction work are  
respectively more particularly defined hereinafter in Article H, Section A and Article IX of  
this agreement, throughout the area known as Southern Nevada, more particularly described  
as the counties of Clark, Lincoln, Esmeralda, Nye, and White Pine (South of U.S. Hwy. 6). It  
is recognized that work covered by the Construction Project Agreement at the Nevada Test  
Site shall be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement.  
All work performed in the Contractors’ warehouses, shops or yards which have been  
particularly provided or set up to handle work in connection with a job or project covered by  
the terms of this Agreement, and all of the production or fabrication of materials by the  
Contractor for the use on this project, shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this  
Agreement.  
All work performed by the Contractors and all services rendered for the Contractors, as  
herein defined, by employees represented by the Union, shail be rendered in accordance with  
each and all of the terms and provisions hereof.  
Any time the masculine gender is used in this Agreement, it shall apply to the female gender.  
All provisions of this Agreement shall apply to male and female employees alike.  
SUBCONTRACTING - If the Contractors, party hereto, shall subcontract job site work as  
defined herein, provision shall be made in such subcontract for the observance by said  
subcontractor of the terms of this Agreement covering such work.’ A subcontractor is defined  
as any person, firm or corporation who agrees under contract with the General Contractor, or  
his subcontractor, to perform on the job site any part or portion of the work covered by this  
Agreement, including the operation of equipment, performance of labor, and the furnishing  
and installation of materials.  
E.1  
### SUBCONTRACTING - JOINT VENTURE  
a. The purposes of this Paragraph 9 are to preserve and protect the work opportunities  
normally available to employees and workmen covered by this Agreement,  
maintenance and protection of standards and benefits of employees and workmen  
negotiated over many years, and preservation of the right of Union employees,  
employed hereunder, from being compelled to work with non-union workmen.  
b. In some instances a Contractor signatory hereto joint ventures with a non-union  
Contractor to bid on certain projects.  
If the Contractor joint ventures with a non-signatory entity, the non-signatory entity  
shall not perform and/or subcontract any work covered by the classifications in this  
Agreement. |  
However, the joint venture shall be afforded the opportunity to sign a Project  
Agreement.  
c. In the event this joint venture is successful in being low bidder and awarded, the  
joint venture shall become signatory to this Agreement for this project only.  
If the non-signatory partner of the joint venture refuses to become signatory, the  
Signatory. contractor partner of the joint venture shall assume al] responsibilities of the  
payment of wages, fringe benefit contributions and subcontract obligations for all  
classifications listed in the Agreement. :  
WORK PRESERVATION ~ A Joint Labor-Management Committee consisting of Union  
Contractors and the Union shall be established, and have the authority to target projects for  
the purposes of enhancing work opportunities for Laborers and Contractors performing work  
pursuant to this Agreement. These special conditions shall be established on an as needed  
basis and shail not be deemed a contract for the purpose of Articles VI  
This Committee shall meet for the purpose of securing competitive bids for signatory  
Contractors when bidding against non-signatory Contractors, or bidding in a market not  
normally covered under this Agreement.  
Repairs necessitated by defects of materials or workmanship or adjustments of newly  
purchased and/or installed equipment or machinery, will not be subject to this Agreement  
when such repairs and/or adjustments are made by the manufacturer thereof or his agents or  
employees, pursuant to the terms of a manufacturer’s guarantee and the Union will not  
hamper such manufacturer or his agents or employees on such exempted work.  
Qualifications: Certain qualifications, knowledge, experience, and responsibility are  
required of everyone desiring to become an Employer in the industry. Therefore, no  
individual firm or corporation shall be considered qualified to become a party to this  
Agreement unless it meets the following qualifications: shall maintain a permanent place of  
business and/or shop with a business telephone, and must possess a current Nevada State  
Contractor’s License, when applicable.  
### ARTICLE II - UNION RECOGNITION  
The Union has claimed and the Employer is satisfied and acknowledges that the Union  
represents a majority of the Employer’s employees in an appropriate bargaining unit for the  
purposes of collective bargaining. The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the  
exclusive bargaining agent for all employees performing work within the Union’s trade  
jurisdiction on all present and future job sites within the Union’s geographiéal jurisdiction.  
It is understood that the Union does not, at this time, nor will they during the term of this  
Agreement, claim jurisdiction over the following classes of employees: supervisors, guards  
and clerical workers, as defined by the National Labor Relations Act.  
The Union hereby recognizes the Associated General Contractors Association, as the sole and  
exclusive bargaining representatives for their respective eligible members who are, or who  
become parties to this Agreement. (A certified roster of eligible members will be furnished  
without delay to the Union at the time of signing this Agreement and when the new members  
are accepted.) This Union agrees that during the term of this Agreement, they will not  
negotiate or enter into agreement with such members of the Associations. Parties to this  
Agregment shall be and continue to remain liable under this Agreement during the term  
hereof, even though said members shall resign from any of the participating Associations  
prior to the date set for the expiration of this Agreement.  
In the employment of Laborers for all work covered by this Agreement, the following  
provisions, subject to the conditions of Article II, Section A above shall govern.  
1. The Union shall refer qualified applicants for employment without discrimination  
against by reason of membership or non-membership in the Union and such referrals  
shall not be based in any way on rules, regulations, bylaws, constitutional provisions  
or any other.aspect or obligations of Union membership policies or requirements. All  
such referrals shall be in an open and non-discriminatory basis, and in accordance  
with the written Referral Procedure of the Union. The Union shall maintain a register  
of applicants for employment based upon one or more of the following elements:  
length of unemployment; experience; ability; prior work for the requesting Employer;  
and availability to work in the geographical area of the job. Each applicant for  
employment shall be registered in the highest Group for which they qualify, as  
included in Appendix  
B, no Employer who is delinquent in Trust contributions shall be allowed to directly  
hire employees outside the Referral Procedure.  
It shall be the responsibility of the Contractors, when requesting applicants to notify  
the Laborer that they are being requested, and to give the Union all of the pertinent  
information regarding the applicants’ employment.  
The first Laborer hired shall be selected by the Employer. The second Laborer hired  
shall be referred by the Union. The third Laborer hired shall be subject to the 50/50  
ratio rule, and the fourth Laborer hired must be an Apprentice when available. 50%  
of all Laborers shall be furnished and referred by the Union to the Employer from  
those registered at the dispatching office of the Union and 50% shall be selected by  
the Employer. All Laborers hired by the Employer must be registered at the  
dispatching office of the Local Union prior to employment and receive a dispatch slip  
from the Local Union. Any abuse of this clause shall‘be cause for depriving the  
Employer of the above-mentioned selection rights for a period of six months. The  
dispatching office will furnish in accordance with.the request of the Employer each  
such qualified and competent applicant from among those entered on said lists to the  
Employer by use of a written referral. which will be faxed to the Employer.  
2. Reasonable advance notice (but not later than twenty four (24) hours prior to the  
requested reporting time) will be given by the Contractors to the Dispatching Office  
upon ordering such applicants; and in the event that twenty-four (24) hours,  
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays, or days the referral office is closed, after  
such notice the Dispatching Office does such applicant, the Contractors  
may procure workers from any other source or sources. If Laborers are so ‘employed,  
the Contractors will immediately report to the dispatching office each such worker by  
name and classification. Such applicant shall be directed to the dispatching office  
with a completed request letter and complete any necessary paperwork to be referred  
to said Employer.  
3. Subject to the foregoing, the individual Contractor is the sole judge as to the  
competency of all his employees and applicants for employment. The Contractors  
may reject any job applicant referred by the Union. All employees must perform  
their work to the satisfaction of the Contractor. No employees shall be discharged or  
discriminated against for activities on behalf of, or representation of the Union not  
interfering with the proper performance of his duties.  
4, The Union shall post in places where notices to applicants for employment  
with the Contractors are customarily posted, all provisions relating to the functioning  
of the hiring arrangements, including the provisions set forth in Article II of this  
### Agreement.  
5. All of the parties signatory hereto agree that any and all liability which may  
arise to any person in any proceedings in any court, or before any governmental  
,,. agency, in connection with carrying out the provisions of this Article, shall be several  
only. This limitation against joint liability is deemed necessary by the parties  
because of the fact, recognized by each of them that the parties will act severally, and  
not jointly, in such matters, and will, in so acting, not be subject to the control of any  
of the other parties.  
6. The parties also recognize that in some instances involving work to be  
performed for public authorities, preference must be given to an applicant residing in  
the area in which the work is located. In order to reconcile this contractual obligation  
with the hiring procedures herein agreed to, the parties shall meet in a pre-job  
conference as provided in Article XVII, Paragraph 1-C.  
7. Employees shall submit proper identification when reporting for work. No  
show up time or subsistence shall be paid to employees without proper identification.  
8. The Employer shall be required to discharge any employee pursuant to this  
section within ten (10) days after receipt of written notice that said employee has  
failed to become or remain a member in good standing. Notwithstanding anything to  
the contrary there in this Article II shall not be applicable if all or part thereof shall be  
in conflict with applicable law.  
### ARTICLE M  
### STRIKES ~ LOCKOUTS  
### , JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
It is the purpose and intent of the parties hereto that, except for: a) jurisdictional disputes;  
and b) claims, disputes and demands arising out of the Contractor’s fringe benefit  
contribution obligations set forth in Articles XXIM and XXIV, all grievances or disputes  
arising in the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement shall be settled by  
the procedure set forth in Article IV hereof, and that except as provided for in Article XXIV,  
the Union, in whose behalf this Agreement is made, shall-not call or engage in, sanction or  
assist in a strike not herein provided for against, or any slowdown or stoppage of the work of,  
the Contractor, and will require the employees it represents to perform their services for the  
Contractors on the work described herein when required by said Contractors to do so; and  
during the term of this Agreement, a Contractor signatory to this Agreement shall not cause  
or permit any lockout of the employees represented by the Union or on whose behalf this  
Agreement is made on work described herein. It shall not be cause for discharge or  
disciplinary action in the event an employee individually refuses to go through or work  
behind any picket line, provided that said picket line is in connection with a lawful labor  
dispute, sanctioned by the Southern Nevada Building and Construction Trades Council.  
If a signatory Contractor is performing work on a project as a subcontractor during the  
construction of which such project is declared to be unfair by the Building and Construction  
Trades Council, and the work thereon is stopped for that reason, neither the Council, nor the  
Union shail be deemed to have violated this Agreement if during the period of said stoppage  
of work, the employees represented by such Union fail to perform their work on said project  
for the Contractor.  
For the purpose of this Article II-B, “Subcontractor” is understood to mean where the  
Signatory Contractor is doing only a part of the whole project, and applies where the  
signatory Contractor has received the contract for his portion of such a project from the  
General Contractor on the project.  
All jurisdictional disputes shall be reduced to writing and submitted to the General  
Presidents of the affected Unions for final resolution — 1. Area Practice 2. Local Agreements  
is the order in which jurisdiction shal] be determined in Southern Nevada, the Contractor or  
his representative will be present at all local meetings to protect his interests and those of his  
client. During the consideration of such disputes by the General Presidents of the affected  
Unions, the Union shall not call or engage in, sanction or assist in a strike not herein provided  
for, or any slowdown or stoppage of the work, against the Contractor and the Contractor shall  
not cause or permit any lockout of the employees represented by the Union or no whose  
behalf this Agreement is made on work described herein. It shall not be cause for discharge  
or disciplinary action in the event an employee individually refuses to go through or work  
behind any picket line, provided that said picket line is in connection with a lawful labor  
dispute, sanctioned by the Southern Nevada Building and Construction Trades Council.  
Nothing contained in this Agreement or any part thereof, or in this Article III or any part  
thereof shall affect or apply to the Union on whose behalf this Agreement is executed, or any  
of them, in any action they may take against any Contractor who has failed, neglected or  
refused to comply with or execute any settlement or decision reached through arbitration  
under the terms of Article IV hereof or any decision reached by the General President of the  
Union signatory to this Agreement under Section C above.  
### , ARTICLE IV  
### BUSINESS AGENT AND JOB STEWARD  
### AND SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES  
### AND DISPUTES  
When employees covered by this Agreement are employed on a job, the Union shall  
designate a Job Steward, who shall be a Laborer referred to the Employer by the Union.  
The Job Steward shall perform his/her duties as Job Steward with the least amount of  
inconvenience to the Employer and the Employer shall allow the Job Steward a reasonable  
amount of time for the performance of such duties. The Job Steward is to work as an  
employee and not use the position as a Job Steward to avoid performance of the Job  
Stewards’ duties as a Laborer. On overtime work, the Job Steward shall always be the second  
Laborer employed for overtime work if he is qualified to perform such work. The Job  
Steward is to work up to the completion of the job and shall be the second-to-last Laborer to  
be discharged as long as he/she is qualified to perform the remaining work.  
The Job Steward may be discharged for cause. If the Job Steward is discharged without  
cause, the Job Steward shall be paid for all lost time up to 30 days only. The Union reserves  
the right in its sole discretion to remove any Job Steward as Job Steward. Prior to any lay-off  
of the Job Steward, the Contractors agree to notify the Union in writing 24 hours in advance  
and agree to meet with the Union if requested. |  
The Job Steward shall be provided, upon his/her request, with the name, social security  
number, and Employer copy of the Union’s referral for all newly hired or transferred  
Laborers.  
The term Job Steward as used in this Agreement means only those employees covered by  
this Agreement who have been trained and hold a current certification by the Union to serve  
as Job Steward.  
The Job Steward shall monitor the Employer’s compliance with the Agreement and shall  
receive disputes from covered employees. In the event that the Job Steward becomes aware  
of a grievance, the Job Steward shall immediately report it to the business agent or special  
representative who shall immediately attempt to adjust said grievance or dispute with the  
Contractor or his representative in accordance with the procedures set forth below. The Job  
Steward shall not stop the individual Employer’s work for any reason or tell any employee  
covered by this Agreement that he cannot work on the job.  
Such business agent or special representative or other previously designated representative  
of the Union and/or Trust Funds shall have access to the project during working hours and  
shall make every reasonable effort to advise the contractor or his representative of his  
presence on the project. The Trust Fund representative shall be accompanied by a business  
agent or have prior approval from the Contractor.  
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure  
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, and except for: a) jurisdictional disputes;  
and b) claims, disputes and demands arising out of the Contractor's fringe benefit  
contribution obligations set forth in Articles XXIII and XXIV, all disputes or grievances  
arising out of the interpretation or application of any of the terms or conditions of this  
Agreement shall be submitted for determination and be resolved by the procedures set forth  
in thié Article. The Employer shall have the right to file a grievance under this Article, and  
further agrees to waive its right to file any lawsuit alleging a breach of contract.  
No grievance, dispute or complaint shall be recognized or have any validity unless called  
to the attention of the Contractor, in writing, by an authorized representative of the Union  
within fifteen (15) days of the time the circumstances giving rise to the grievance first  
occurred or of the time the Union reasonably should have known of the occurrence. The  
Contractor or his representative shall meet with the representative of the Union, and attempt  
to adjust the grievance between them on a job-level basis as promptly as possible, but in no  
event later than five days after notice of the grievance was given. If the parties at this step  
cannot resolve the grievance within the five day period, either party may notify the other  
party involved in writing that it invokes the next step.  
if a settlement is not reached within five (5) days, the matter shall be submitted to a Board  
of Adjustment, appointed as follows: The Employer involved shall appoint two (2) members,  
or his designated representative, and the Union shall appoint two (2) members. A simple  
majority vote of the Board of Adjustments shall be final and binding on all parties and the  
grievant. In the event the Board of Adjustment does not reach a majority decision within  
three (3) days after a referral of the issue to the Board, either or both parties may refer the  
dispute of grievance to arbitration, and within fifteen (15) days, the grievance shall be  
referred to an impartial arbitrator for a final and binding decision. In the event the parties  
cannot agree upon the selection of an arbitrator, one shall be selected from a list of seven (7)  
names provided by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.  
The arbitrator’s fee and all incidental expenses shall be paid equaily by the parties. The  
arbitrator shall have no authority to modify, vary, change, add to, or remove any of the terms  
or conditions of this Agreement. The Arbitrator may award, amongst other appropriate  
remedies, wages and/or fringe benefits. The Arbitrator may not award the cost of presenting  
or defending the grievance to either party.  
11  
a. There shall be established by this Agreement a Joint Labor Management Committee  
consisting of two (2) members appointed by the Union and two (2) members appointed by  
the Association, whose duties, among other. things, shall be to meet quarterly and review  
issues of concern relating to the application of the Agreement. =  
Recommendations of the Joint Labor Management Committee shall be promptly referred to the  
negotiating parties to this Agreement for consideration.  
### ARTICLE V  
### CONFLICTING AGREEMENTS  
This Agreement supersedes all existing labor agreements heretofore in effect between the  
Contractors and the Union.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### QUALIFICATIONS, MOST FAVORED NATIONS  
Each of the parties hereto warrants and agrees that it is under no disability of any kind,  
whether arising out of the provisions of its Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, By-Laws,  
or otherwise that will prevent it from fully and completely carrying out and performing each  
and all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and further that it will not by the  
adoption or amendment of any provision of its Articles of Incorporation, Constitution or By-  
Laws, or by contract or by any means whatsoever take any action that will prevent or impede  
it in the full and complete performance of each and every term hereof. The warranties and  
agreements contained in this paragraph are made by each of the signatories hereto on his own  
behalf and on the behalf of each organization for which it is acting hereunder. The  
individuals signing this Agreement in their official capacity and the signatories hereto hereby  
guarantee and warrant their authority to act for and bind the respective parties or  
organizations whom their signature purport to represent, and the local union on whose behalf  
the said parties are signing the said Agreement.  
This Agreement contains all of the covenants, stipulations and provisions agreed upon by the  
parties hereto and no agent or representative of either party has authority to make, and none  
of the parties shall be bound by nor liable for any statement, representation, promise,  
inducement or agreement not set forth herein; that any provision in the working rules of the  
Union, with reference to the relations between the Contractors and their employees, in  
conflict with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to be waived and any such rules or  
regulations which may hereinafter be adopted by the Union shall have no application to the  
_ work hereunder. |  
If, within the jurisdiction of this Agreement, the Union enters into any agreement with any  
employer or association that provides, contains or otherwise permits more favorable terms or  
conditions of employment to such employer or association than are provided for in this  
Agreement, then the Union shall notify the Association of such other agreement containing  
more favorable terms or conditions and each Contractor shall have the option to assume such  
other agreement. This Section does not apply to any site specific changes to terms and  
conditions that are granted under the Work Preservation provision in this Agreement or to  
any other collective bargaining agreement entered into by the Union which does not apply to  
on site construction work.  
12  
### Vit - HOLIDAYS  
The following days are recognized as holidays for employees herein classified: New  
Years Day, Washington’s Birthday (President’s Day), Memorial Day, Independence Day,  
Labor Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas  
Day. If any of the above holidays should fall on Sunday, the Monday following shall be  
considered a legal holiday. Work on such days shall be paid for at the respective crafts  
holiday rate of pay. No work shall be required on Labor Day, except in the case of extreme  
urgency when life or property is in imminent danger.  
MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY — An Employee shall be allowed to observe Martin  
Luther King as a holiday without pay or penalty if notice is given by the Employee to the  
Employer not less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to the holiday.  
### ARTICLE VII -  
### CLASSIFICATIONS  
Should the Contractor or any sub-contractor so defined-in Article I, Section E employ  
empldyees in the prosecution of this work in occupations which are not covered by one of the  
classifications herein specified, such employment shall then be temporarily classified by the  
Contractor under the classification contained herein which will more nearly fit the particular  
character of the employment. Either party shall thereafter have the right to submit a dispute  
under this Section in the manner set forth in Article IV. :  
In the event another Union lays claim to work not covered by a classification herein, the  
Contractor shall make the assignment and temporary ‘classification and‘ the disputing  
claims shall be a jurisdictional dispute and treated as such strictly in accordarice with the  
provisions contained in Article I.  
The number of employees and the number of classifications of employees required to  
perform any operation covered by this agreement shall be determined by the Contractor,  
provided that if a Contractor, in determining the number of employees or the number of  
classifications of employees, shall lessen the number of employees customarily used to  
perform any such operation, the Union may have the issue of such reduction in employees or  
in classifications determined by the grievance and arbitration procedure provided in Article  
IV of this Agreement. In determining such disputes, consideration shall be given to the  
necessity for additional employees or classifications as well as to other pertinent factors.  
Because the Contractors and the Union recognize the necessity of eliminating restrictions  
on production and promoting efficiency, nothing shall be permitted that restricts production  
or increases the time required to do the work, and no limitation shall be placed on the amount  
of work which an employee shall perform, nor shall there be any restriction against the use of  
any kind of machinery, tools, or labor saving devices; provided however, that no employee  
shall be required to work under any conditions that are injurious to his health or safety in  
conflict with a present well established custom regulating such use where the work is being  
performed, including, but not limited to, the operation of equipment.  
Wage rates shall be recognized as applying to classifications rather than to employees and  
any employee performing work shall be paid at the rate which the classification of his work  
calls for, except when it is necessary to temporarily transfer employees from one  
, Classification to another in which event such. employees shall be paid on the basis of the  
A.  
highest rate and the duration of payment at the highest rate shall be reckoned by the day.  
When such transfers involve the classifications:of more than one craft, it shall not be  
necessary for the operation of this policy that the employee be referred project by more  
than one union or employed at classifications of more than one craft. Abuse by any  
contractor of the privilege granted in this Section D shall subject him to withdrawal of the  
privileges for any appropriate period through the procedures established in Article IV.  
### ARTICLE IX - WORK COVERED  
The work covered by this Agreement shall include, but shall not be limited to, all  
classifications of work contained in the Laborers International Union jurisdictional manual,  
which is included herein by reference.  
Tunnel work is specifically covered-by an addendum to this Agreement herein  
cortained, marked Article X Addendum A and made a part hereof. a  
In addition to the foregoing, this Agreement covers all watchmen, flagmen (all crafts),  
fire watchmen, traffic control person, including the operation of ‘appropriate vehicles,  
laborers, construction specialists, concrete specialists, foremen (general, grade, pipe,  
concrete, forms, seeding, asphalt, clearing and grubbing, clean-up stone-laying) in the  
performance of: the laying of all types of pipe and conduit; the spreading and pouring and  
raking and tamping of all asphalt and concrete materials and the bull floating (strike off) of  
all. concrete; the laying of all types of stone or manufactured curb, rip-rap, paving blocks,  
concrete blocks (paving), slope paving, Belgium Block; assembling and placing of Gabion  
and all similar types of baskets; the handling, loading and unloading and stringing of all  
materials, the handling, loading and stringing of all wood products by hand or power; the  
sharpening of all air tool bits and drills and bull points; laying, spreading and storing of all  
tarpaulins, the operation and maintenance of Bo Mag Rollers; (tending of all Crafts  
tegardless of work being performed in Southern Nevada by any and all methods; any and  
all types of. heaters, fans, air conditioners, or other cooling devices to be tended, handled  
and fueled by. laborers at all times; the laying and placing of forms used for  
curbing, gutters, roads, and sidewalks and the stripping of same, the placing, setting and  
maintenance of all flares, blinker lights and reflectors; the cutting and chipping of all  
joints, the handling, loading, unloading, distributing and erecting of chain-link fence;  
. handling and erecting of wire fence; overhead signs; handling and moving all furniture:  
handling.and placing of wire mesh on roads and bridges; guard rails; the sandblasting and  
. applying of sealers and hardeners and epoxy on concrete and asphalt work; asphalt striping  
and other asphalt painting; the nozzle operations on sandblasting and guniting operations:  
.the signing of all materials, manufactured or otherwise, which are handled or put in place  
by laborers, the handling, the loading and unloading and distribution and installation of all  
guard rails, highway signs, and road markers; attending to, handling, and ‘fueling single  
diaphragm pumps, insulation pumps, plasterer pumps, monocoat pumps, grout pumps, and  
pumps up to and including 2" pumps; laying out, moving, connecting, storing and handling  
all hoses for all pumps; the operating of all types of machines used to seal any type of  
joints; the operating and servicing of mortar mixers (including, but not limited to, maxi  
14  
mixers and/or mega mixers) and conveyers used in laborers’ and bricklayers work  
regardless of number; the operating and servicing of all rock drilling machines; the blasting  
and dynamiting of all rock; welding (excluding machinery, tools, structural steel);  
installation of manholes and catch basins; the placing of all pre-cast and pre-stressed  
materials, except .when placed or installed by the manufacturer pursuant to its collective  
bargaining agreement; handling, unloading, loading, assembling and laying of all  
multiplate; the operating of all air, gas, electric, oil and other types of motor driving tools  
including all pusher type equipment; all walk behind saws, all concrete saws, drilling and  
coring equipment; all casings and augers on all drilling rigs; the handling, tending and  
maintaining of all generators; lasers when used for laborers work on grading, setting and  
leveling; landscape nurseries; sound barrier installation; demolition or dismantling for all  
purposes; hazardous waste work to include chemical cleanup, drum handlers, transformers,  
divers, infra-red destruction machines, plasma arc plants, warehouse storage loading and  
unloading, safety men, asbestos removal, video X-ray operation; the unloading, loading,  
handling, stringing, and tending of all brick, all block, all stone and ali other masonry  
products; the paving of all stone and brick products; mason finisher; water proofing, IBC  
barrier, except on structures; the operating and maintaining of the hydraulic seeder,  
concrete curb machine, asphalt curb machine, snorkel. stump remover, self-propelled  
concrete saw, hydraulic motorized pin puller, scissor cars and all aerial man hifts. Bobcat  
incidental to trade and forklift. Installation and maintenance of all playground fixtures and  
equipment. The foregoing applies in the performance of all the aforementioned work and  
all other work coming under the jurisdiction of LIUNA unless state or local requirements  
dictate otherwise.  
This Agreement also covers all removal, abatement, encapsulation or decontamination  
of asbestos, lead and other toxic and hazardous waste or materials, which shall include but  
not be limited to: the erection, building, moving, servicing and dismantling of all  
enclosures, scaffolding, barricades, decontamination facilities, negative air machines for  
asbestos removal, etc.; the operation and servicing of all tools and equipment normally used  
in asbestos removal or abatement of such waste or materials, including, without limitation,  
negative air machines for asbestos removal; the sorting, labeling, bagging, cartoning,  
crating, packaging and movement of such waste or materials for disposal; the clean up of  
work site and all other work and stand-by time incidental to the removal, abatement,  
encapsulation or decontamination of such waste or materials; and the performance of safety  
watch duties on job sites where work is performed under this Agreement.  
This Agreement also covers the following, but is not limited to:  
l. The preparation of trenches, and footings for above ground or underground  
lines or cables.  
2. The handling of all rods, mesh and material for use in reinforcing concrete  
construction.  
3. The rigging of pipe.  
4, Trenches, Manholes-Cutting of streets and ways for laying of pipes, cables or  
for all purposes; digging of trenches, ditches, manholes, etc.; handling  
and conveying all materials; concreting, backfilling, grading and resurfacing  
Sill am oN  
and all other labor connected therewith. Clearing and site preparation as  
described herein. Cutting or jack hammering of streets, roads, sidewalks or  
aprons ‘by hand or the use of air or other tools. Use and maintenance of all  
walk behind concrete saws, drilling and coring equipment, all augers and  
casings on drilling rigs. The leveling, grading and other preparation prior to  
laying pipe or conduit for any purpose. Loading, unloading, sorting,  
stockpiling, wrapping, coating, treating, handling, distribution, laying and  
making of joints of water mains, water pipes, gas mains and all pipe including  
. placing, setting and removal of skids. .Cribbing, driving of sheet piling, laggin g  
and shoring of all ditches, trenches and manholes. Handling, mixing or  
pouring Of concrete and handling and placing of other materials for saddles,  
beds, or foundations for the protection of pipes, wires, conduits, etc.  
Backfilling and compacting of all ditches, resurfacing of roads, streets, etc.,  
and/or restoration of lawns and landscaping, welding, joining, underwater cable  
installation. Trenchless technology and directional boring shall be the work of  
the Laborer.  
Sewers, Drains, Culverts and Multiplate - Unloading, sorting, stockpiling,  
coating, treating, handling, distribution and lowering or raising of all pipe or  
multiplate. All digging, driving of sheet piling, lagging, bracing, shoring, and  
cribbing; breaking of concrete backfilling, tamping, resurfacing and paving of  
all ditches in preparation for the laying of all pipe. Pipe laying, leveling and  
making of the joint of any pipe used for main or side sewers and storm sewers.  
All of the laying of clay, terra-cotta, ironstone, vitrified concrete, ductile iron,  
or other pipe and the making of joints for main or side sewers anid storm sewers  
and all the pipe for drainage. Unloading, handling, distribution, assembly in  
place, bolting and lining up of sectional metal or other pipe, including  
corrugated pipe. Laying of lateral sewer pipe from main sewer or side sewer to  
building or structure. Laying, leveling and making of the joint of all multicell  
conduit or multi-purpose pipe. Cutting of holes in walls, footings, piers or  
other obstructions for the passage of pipe or conduit for any purpose and the  
pouring of concrete to secure said holes. Digging under streets, roadways,  
aprons or other paved surfaces for the passage of pipe, by hand, earth auger or  
any other method and manual and hydraulic jacking of pipe under said  
surfaces. Installation of septic tanks, cesspools and drain fields. Oil, brine,  
chemical transmission lines and related work, fiber optics, communication lines  
and cathodic protection.  
Drilling and Blasting - All work of drilling, jack hammering, and blasting.  
Operation of all rock and concrete drills, including handling, carrying, laying  
out of hoses, steel handling, installation of all temporary lines and handling and  
laying of all blasting mats. All work in connection with blasting, handling and  
storage of explosives, carrying to point of blasting, Joading holes, setting fuses,  
making primers and exploding charges. All securing of surface with wire mesh  
and any other material and setting of necessary bolts and rods to anchor same.  
All high scaling and other rock breaking and removal after blast. Handling and  
laying of nets and other safety devices and signaling, flagging, road guarding.  
Signal Men ~ Signal men on all construction work defined herein, including  
traffic control signal men or flagmen at construction sites.  
16  
8. Use of Tools — Operation of ail hand, pneumatic, electric, motor combustion or  
air-driven tools or equipment necessary for the performance of work described  
herein.  
9. All clean-up, including general, construction, janitorial, final, and micro  
cleaning; all cleaning and removal of debris, rubbish, and refuse of any type  
and kind for all trades on all jobs, and final cleaning operation on any project  
or part thereof before. the project or any part thereof is turned over to the  
owner.  
10. Provision of drinking water to all trades per OSHA standards (29 CFR Part  
1926 Subpart D). Contractor shall provide adequate restroom facilities per  
OSHA standards (29 CFR Part 1926 Subpart-D).  
This Agreement shall also cover all work traditionally performed by Laborers  
within the jurisdiction of this Agreement.  
1. Plaster Tending shall consist of preparation of materials and the handling and  
conveying of materials to be used by mechanics of other crafts, whether such  
preparation is by hand or any other process. After the material has been prepared,  
tending shall include the supplying and conveying of said material and other  
materials, to such mechanic, whether by bucket, hod, wheelbarrow, buggy, or other  
. motorized unit for such purpose, including forklifts.  
2. Unloading, handling and distribution of all materials, fixtures, furnishings, and  
appliances from point of delivery to stockpiles and from stockpiles to approximate  
point of installation.  
3. Drying of plaster, concrete, mortar, or other when done by salamander  
heat or other drying process.  
4. Cleaning and clearing of all debris, including all clean-up regardless of craft,  
construction clean-up including final construction clean-up before TCO is issued will  
be performed by Laborers. If clean-up composite crews are utilized, the work shall  
be performed by Laborers only. Wire brushing of windows, scraping of floor,  
removal of surplus material from ail fixtures within confines of structure and  
cleaning of all debris in building and construction. The general clean up, including  
sweeping, cleaning, wash down and wiping of construction facility, equipment; and  
furnishing and removal and loading or burning of all debris including crates, boxes,  
and packaging waste material. Washing or cleaning of walls, partitions, ceilings,  
windows, bathrooms, kitchens, laboratories and all fixtures and facilities therein.  
Clean up, mopping, washing, waxing and polishing or dusting of all floors. Tool  
trailers and light tool repair.  
5. The aging and curing of concrete, mortar, and other materials applied to walls,  
floors, ceilings, and foundations of buildings and structures, highways, airports,  
overpasses and underpasses, tunnels, bridges, approaches, viaducts, ramps or other  
similar surfaces by any mode or method.  
6. Laborers will perform the erection, planking, and removal of all scaffolds for  
lathers, plasterers, bricklayers, and other construction trade crafts as well as the  
building, planking or installation and removal of all Staging, swinging and hanging  
scaffolds, including maintenance thereof. Where self-supported scaffolds or  
specially designed scaffolds are built by Carpenters, Laborers shall tend Carpenters  
on erection thereof; the dismantling of said scaffolds as well as preparation for  
foundation or mud stills of said scaffolds and maintenance of same shall be done by  
Laborers. |  
7. Dust control/single axle dump trucks and water trucks on intermittent use.  
8. Street sweepers and vacuum trucks.  
9. Contractor will supply all protective clothing for hazardous conditions, hardhat,  
safety glasses, hearing protection, concrete boots, rubber gloves, concrete shovels,  
asbestos suits, and respirators per OSHA (29 CFR Part 1926 Subpart E — P.P.E. and  
Life Saving Devices). The Employer is not responsible for steel-toe boots unless  
mandated by awarding body or State law.  
### - ARTICLE X  
### ADDENDUM A - TUNNEL WORK  
This: Addendum A shall cover the construction, alteration, or renovation of all  
tunnels, shafts, adits, silos, raises, ventilation raises, ducts, underground chambers  
and all other work where miners are required to work below the surface of the earth  
and which falls within the jurisdiction of the Laborers International Union of North  
America.  
Tunnel work shall be defined as the actual boring, driving, and concreting of tunnels.  
A shaft and/or silo shall be defined as sinking of any vertical, inclined or declined  
shaft (including stations) by using shaft sinking methods. Any mining performed off  
the completed shaft shall be considered tunne! work.  
In the event a dispute arises in the differentiation between a tunnel or shaft, the  
Association and the Union shall meet to resolve the dispute.  
Without limiting the scope of the work covered hereby, it is agreed that Miners’ and  
Bull Gangers’ work shall include but not be limited to; the following:  
The construction, laying and maintenance of all railroad tracks.  
All mining work, including the manning, running and/or handling of all boring  
equipment, mole machines and continuous mining equipment; all drilling regardiess  
of type or method used for work covered by this Agreement; and all loading,  
shooting and handling of all powder, including splitting and making primer.  
Support craft for-underground users and other crafts.  
Timbering, whether wood or steel, including cutting, welding, handling and placing  
of all ribs, lagging, liner plate and other ground support.  
All rock bolting and placing of rock restraining wire.  
Mucking and dumping, including all cable and/or hose tenders, swampers (brakemen  
and switchmen) on muck trains and timber trains, and pushing or pulling of any cars,  
including man-trips.  
Handling and extending all water, air and vent lines for or in the tunnel or tunnel  
shaft.  
Installations of combination guides and utility lines in steel-lined drill holes being  
converted to shafts for mining operations.  
Manning of cherry picker and/or car passers while mucking.  
Small pumps in tunnels and tunnel shafts.  
Concrete work, including gunite and shotcrete pots (wet and dry) grouting, dumping  
of agitators, raising setting and moving of forms, including slip forms, in shafts and  
tunnels.  
Handling all rods and other material for use in reinforced concrete.  
Stripping all forms and all cleanup work.  
Toot Crib -- all sharpening of bits and steel nippers.  
All dry housemen and chuck tenders.  
All air tuggers, conveyors, kemper pneumatic placers and all similar type equipment,  
including slushers.  
The monitoring of ingress and egress at the tunnels or shafts where required.  
Outsideman/Expediter.  
The monitoring and testing of tunnel/shaft water.  
Assist in the assembly of muck handling conveyors.  
Alpine Spotter /Lamp Man |  
Pipe Jacking  
### ARTICLE XI  
### LABORERS WAGE RATES  
### A. WAGE RATES  
1. The hourly wage rates for classifications of work covered by this Agreement are  
contained in Article XI, incorporated herein as part of this Agreement.  
No employee presently receiving total compensation (i.e. payment of wages and payment to  
applicable trust funds) under this Agreement shall suffer any reduction in such compensation  
by reason of the execution of this new Agreement.  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES  
GROUP I $ 21.80  
Dry packing of concrete and filling of form bolt holes  
Fine grader, highway and street paving, airport runways and similar type heavy  
construction  
Gas and oil pipeline laborer  
Guinea chaser  
Laborer, general, construction or.demolition  
Laborer, packing rod steel and pans  
Laborer, temporary water lines (portable type)  
Landscape gardener (Must have knowledge of plant materials and how to plant them. Lays  
out plant arrangements to-follow the landscape plan)  
Nurseryman  
Tarman and mortar man, kettle man, potman and man applying asphalt, lay cold creosote,  
fine and similar type materials. (“Applying” means applying, dipping, brushing or handling  
of such materials for pipe wrapping and water proofing.)  
Underground laborer, including caisson bellowers  
Window cleaner  
Scaffold Erector - (Excludes Tenders)  
Fence Erector - Chain Link; Mortarless, Barrier Wall and/or Retaining Walls;  
Mechanical Stabilized Earth Wall  
Material Handler - (incidental to trade)  
Construction cleanup (picking up debris, sweeping, Scraping and janitorial work, including  
final clean-up), except as provided in Group 1A below.  
Note: The construction clean-up rate is to be included in the Group I on same date as the  
Laborers’ Local 872 Apprenticeship and Training standards are approved by the Bureau of  
Apprenticeship and Training, and/or Nevada State Apprenticeship Council.  
Tool Crib  
Light Tool Repairman  
Certified Firewatch  
20  
Group IA $ 17.04  
Effective for jobs bid on or after July 1, 2005, final clean up shall be paid at the rate of $17.04  
per hour. Final clean up subject to this rate shall mean: polishing furniture, polishing stainless steel in  
hotel kitchens, sweeping and vacuuming hallways and finished rooms and completed casino areas,  
washing windows on first floor and similar duties.  
GROUP Ii $ 22.01  
Asphalt raker, ironer, spreader, and luteman  
Buggymobile man  
Cesspool digger and installer  
Chuck tender (except tunnels) .  
Gas and oil pipeline wrapper, pot tender and form man  
Making and caulking of all non-metallic pipe joints  
Operators and tenders of pneumatic and electric tools, vibrating machines, hand propelled  
trenching machines, impact wrench multi-plate and similar mechanical tools not separately  
classified herein  
Riprap stonepaver  
Roto-scraper  
Sandblaster (pot tender)  
Septic tank digger and installer (lead man)  
Tank scaler and cleaner |  
Tree climber, faller, chain saw operator, Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush shredders  
GROUP iil 3 22.11  
Cutting torch operator  
Gas and oil pipeline wrapper  
Gas and oil pipeline laborer, certified  
Jackhammer and/or pavement beaker  
Laying of all metallic and non-metallic pipe, p.v.c. and duct bank, including fandscape  
sprinklers, sewer pipe, drain pipe and underground tile  
Cement dumper (on one yard or larger mixers and handling bulk cement)  
Concrete core cutter  
Concrete curer, impervious membrane and oiler of all materials  
Concrete saw man, excluding tractor type, cutting scoring old or new concrete  
Operator of cement grinding machine  
| Rock slinger  
| Scaler (using boswain chair or safety belt or power tools under 100 feet)  
Forklift - A journeyman shall hold Forklift certification at time of referral for duration of  
| employment.  
| Hodcarrrier-Mason Tender/Mason Finisher  
| Decorative Rock Installer - (Ponds, Waterfalls, Etc.)  
Shotcrete/Gunnite  
2]  
Group $ 22.61  
Placement of all concrete, including red concrete by any means  
Mud cutter  
Concrete vibrator operator, all sizes  
Concrete Dumper  
Slickline/Hoseman/Dumpman  
GROUP IV $ 22.20  
Cribber or shorer, lagging, sheeting, trench bracing, hand guided lagging hammer  
Head rock slinger  
Powderman-blaster, all work of loading holes, placing and blasting of all powder and  
explosives of whatever type, regardless of method used for such loading and placing  
Sandblaster (nozzieman)  
Steel header-board man  
GROUP V $ 22.30  
Driller (core, diamond or wagon), Air track drill (all types)  
Joy driller model TW-M-2A. Gardner-Denver model DH 143 and similar type drills (in  
accordance with Memorandum of Understanding between Laborers and Operating Engineers  
dated Miami, Florida, February 3, 1954)  
Gas and oil pipeline fusion  
Gas and oil pipeline wrappers, 6" pipe and over  
### PRIVATE GROUP VI  
Miner and Bullgang  
Shaft, Raise, Stope Miner 23,54  
Miner - Tunnel! (Hardrock) $ 23.04  
Bull Gang, Mucker, Trackiman $ 22.79  
Mimer- Welder $ 23.40  
Pipe Jacking, Micro-Tunneling, Tunnel Boring Machine,..... 0 $ 23.04  
$ 29.50  
### HOURLY FRINGE BENEFITS  
Foss $ 6.12  
Pension B CAnmnuity) $ .80  
$ 4.89*  
VACATION $ 3.32**  
Gs 50:0 0 Bax $ 0.38  
BiB, oie Us 8a Gee towed $ 0.05  
Total. $15.56  
*Includes $0.02 for National Health and Safety, $0.02 for National LECET, $ 0.06 for NW LECET,  
and $0.13 for Southern Nevada LECET. **Includes Supplemental Dues and Political Action  
Contribution deductions, which shall be made from vacation pay upon receipt of appropriate signed  
authorization cards in the respective amounts authorized on the cards and paid to the Union and the  
Laborers Political Action League respectively. When working on Sunday and holidays there will be  
an additional $1.50 per hour paid to Plan B Pension Fund.  
### BULLGANG FOREMAN’S RATE:  
5 2.00 more than Bullgang Rate  
### SHIFTER’S RATE:  
$2.75/hour above highest paid craft  
Change House  
Section IJ. The Employer shall establish and maintain a change house at each portal, adit, or  
shaft (or within a reasonable distance thereof), which shall include showers, toilet facilities, lockers  
and drying facilities in accordance with the number of employees in each crew. Each change house  
shall be so constructed and facilities so provided to assure that all work clothes will dry between  
  
Sectien II. Short, dry tunnels are exempted from the provisions of this Article if bathing  
facilities are generally available in nearby living areas. This applies to micro-tunneling and small  
bore pipe jacking jobs in the greater Las Vegas and/or Henderson areas such as intersections and  
micro tunneling under roadways, and does not apply to large tunnel boring machine jobs such as  
water and sewer tunnels and transportation systems.  
### GROUP VII  
### ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALIST. senesenees $ 22.11*  
*($0.50 Wage Rate above Group III when wearing protective suit or respirator)  
Asbestos Abatement  
Lead Abatement  
Hazardous Waste Abatement  
Petro-Chemical Abatement  
Radiation Remediation  
Microbial Remediation  
  
### EMPLOYEES SHALL BE PROPERLY CERTIFIED AND/OR LICENSED AT TIME OF  
### DISPATCH.  
### GROUP VIII - PLASTER TENDER  
Base Rate oo... $23.20  
### PENSION 4,70  
Pension B (AMNuity) $ .80  
Health/ Welfare. $ 4.89*  
VACATION $ 3.32**  
Go naam $ 0.38  
$ 0.05  
Total us $14.14  
### TOTAL HOURLY PACKAGE. $37.34  
23  
ee ae  
Includes $0.02 for National Health and Safety, $0.02 for National LECET, $ 0.06 for NW LECET,  
and $0.13 for Southern Nevada LECET. **Includes Supplemental Dues and Political Action  
Contribution deductions, which shall be made from vacation pay upon receipt of appropriate signed  
authorization cards in the respective amounts authorized on the cards and paid to the Union and/or the  
Laborers Political Action League respectively. When working on Sunday and holidays there will be  
an additional $1.50 per hour paid to Plan B Pension Fund.  
FOREMAN: $ 2.00/hour above base rate  
GENERAL FOREMAN: $3.00/ hour above base rate  
### MISCELLANEOUS  
Watchman. $18.80  
Shop $18.80  
$20.30  
### NOTE: |  
Rigging shall be the same wage scale as classification to which the rigging is incidental.  
Welders referred from the Union Hall shall have the necessary qualifications to pass a certification  
test.at the job site.  
Welding performed by certified welders in connection with Laborers work shall calry a premium of  
$1.00 per hour over the classification of General Laborer.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### CRAFT FOREMEN  
An employee designated by the Contractor as a foreman shall be paid at a rate of $ $2.00  
per hour more than the highest laborer’s wage classification supervised. A general foreman  
shall be paid at the rate of $3.00 per hour more than the highest laborer’s wage classification  
supervised. A foreman designated to supervise other foremen shall be classified as a general  
foreman.  
The necessity for the number of, and the selection of, foremen shall be solely determined by  
the Contractor except that after three or more Laborers, one will be appointed Foreman and  
shall not supervise more than twelve (12) Journeymen and/or Apprentices. After two or more  
Foremen, one shall be appointed General Foreman. It is not the intent of the Contractor to  
assign the duties and responsibilities of the foreman to an employee without designating such  
employee as foreman and paying him in accordance with Section A above, It is understood  
that a foreman shall be an employee employed within the jurisdiction of Local 872. Any lay-  
off checks will be given to employees by their immediate Foreman, General Foreman, or  
Supervisor.  
24  
### ARTICLE XI  
### SCHEDULE B  
### CONTRIBUTIONS  
### . SCHEDULE B  
### CONTRIBUTION PAYABLE TO TRUST FUNDS  
7/1/05  
Pension Plan $ 4.70  
PensionPlanB RAE Se SEE as on sey $ .80  
“Health Welfare. .$ 4.89*  
enone $ 3.32**  
Training $ 0.38  
CPF mo $4 © som pai $ 0.05  
Total $ 14.14  
Total General Laborer $ 35.94  
*Includes $0.02 for National Health and Safety, $0.02 for National LECET, $ 0.06 for NW LECET,  
and $0.13 for Southern Nevada LECET. **Includes Supplemental Dues and Political Action  
Contribution deductions, which shall be made from vacation pay upon receipt of appropriate signed  
authorization cards in the respective amounts authorized on the cards and paid to the Union and/or  
the Laborers Political Action League respectively. When working on Sunday and holidays there will  
be an additional $1.50 per hour paid to Plan B Pension Fund. The Union and the Employer agree that  
when Employees are working in a Supervisor position above General Foreman the’ Employer may  
make payments into the Laborers Health and Welfare Fund, Laborers Pension Plans A and B,  
Laborers Vacation, and Training Fund on the basis of 160 hours pet month in accordance’ with the  
Schedule set forth in the Master Labor Agreement regardless of the hours worked by said Employee  
in one month. When the Employer chooses this option, it must continue for the duration of the  
Employee’s employment.  
The above contributions will be made on the basis of straight time or overtime hours worked or paid  
each employee under the terms of this Agreement.  
Foreman’s base rate: $2.00 per hour more than the highest Laborer base rate classification supervised.  
General Foreman’s base rate: $3.00 per hour more than the highest Laborer base rate classification  
supervised.  
25  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### APPRENTICESHIP  
The Employer and the Union recognize the need and desirability of an Apprentice  
Training Program which is approved by the State of Nevada and which meets the needs of  
Employers for skilled labor. Accordingly, the Employer and the Union hereby agree to fund  
an Apprenticeship Training Program through the Southern Nevada Laborers Local 872  
Training Trust which shall be responsible for creating, implementing and administering an  
Apprenticeship Program. « my  
The Training Trust may establish a Joint apprenticeship and Training Committee as may  
be authorize or permitted by the Training Trust. The Trust may delegate to the Committee  
such responsibilities and authority as is authorized by the Trust Agreement and deenied  
necessary by the Trustees. The Trust and/or Committee may establish such tules, policies  
and procedures as deemed necessary and appropriate for the enrollment, training  
and graduation of Apprentices, in accordance with the Bureau of Apprenticeship Training  
and/or the Nevada State Apprenticeship Council written policies and procedures. An  
Apprentice may be removed from training at any period of apprenticeship for violation of any  
of the Trust’s or Committee’s rules, policies, and procedures including drug and alcohol  
testing policies. Such removal cancels the classification of Apprentice and the opportunity of  
the Apprentice to continue Apprentice training, whether on the Job training (OJT), classroom  
training or other training, and requires Apprentice privileges for journeyman. status shall‘be  
unavailable until successful completion of journeyman aptitude test. . Bee  
There shall bea minimum length of training of 4,432 hours consisting of 4,000 hours of  
on-the-job training and 432 hours of related training, including-classroorii instruction. In  
order to provide diversity:of training and work opportunities;.the Trust or Committee shall  
have full authority to transfer Apprentices from one job or Employer to another. All transfers  
and assignments for work shall be issued by the Trust or. Committee andthe referral office  
must be so notified.  
The Employer shall employ Apprentices, when available, at the following ratios: One (1)  
Apprentice for the first Journeyman and not more than one for every three (3) Journeymen  
thereafter: One (1) Apprentice for every three (3) Journeymen on a company wide basis  
when available. Job shall not exceed Apprentice to J ourneyman ratio at any time.  
1 Journeyman - 1 Apprentice  
2 Journeyman —.1 Apprentice  
3 Journeyman — 1 Apprentice  
4 Journeyman — 1 Apprentice  
> Journeyman - 1 Apprentice  
6 Journeyman — 2 Apprentices  
7 Journeymen - 2 Apprentices  
8 Journeymen - 2 Apprentices  
9 Journeymen - 3 Apprentices  
10 Journeymen - 3 Apprentices  
11 Journeymen - 3 Apprentices  
For additional Journeymen, a continuation of these ratios will apply. (These ratios will be effective,  
and can be amended from time to time, only after approval by the Nevada State Apprenticeship  
Council and/or the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training.)  
26  
NOTE: Section XIV, entitled “Ratio of Apprentices to Journeyman” of the Apprentice Standards does  
not specifically address the application of the ratios to multiple work sites of ambulatory contractors.  
Therefore, upon inquiry or appeal by an ambulatory contractor, the Trustees will interpret the ratios  
set forth in Section XIV to apply to the employer’s journeymen work force as a whole, and not to a  
particular work site of the ambulatory contractors.  
Apprenticeship and Training  
Apprentice Rate of Pay and Benefit Schedule  
Effective July 1, 2005  
1*500 Hours (50% Apprentice)  
Group I Wage Rate @ $10.90  
Health & Welfare $ 4.89*  
Vacation @ $ 2.07**  
Pension A @ $ 2.35  
Pension B (Annuity) @ $ .40  
Training @ $ .38  
CALF. $ .05  
Total $10.14  
Total $21.04  
2" 500 Hours (60% Apprentice) os  
Group I Wage Rate @ $13.08.  
Health & Welfare 4,89  
Vacation © 60% 2.32**  
Pension A @ $ 2.82  
Pension B @ $ .48  
Traiming @ $ .38  
CAF @ $ .05  
Total $10.94  
Total $24.02  
2nd 1000 Hours (70% Apprentice)  
Group I Wage Rate @70% $15.26  
Health & Welfare @ 4.89"  
Vacation © 70% $  
Pension A @ 70% $ 3.29  
Pension B @ $ .56  
Training @ 100% $ .38  
Total $11.74  
Total $27.00  
27  
3rd 1000 Hours (80% Apprentice)  
Group I Wage Rate @80% 00.0.0... $17.44  
Health & Welfare @ eee its nous 5 4,89*  
Vacation @ 80% 2 Q2"*  
Pension A @ 80% $ 3.76  
Pension B @ $ .64  
Training @ 100% SEEMS BAS MAINS AE Nn ek BES $ .38  
CALF. @ 05  
Total $12.54  
Total $29.98  
4" 1000 Hours (90% Apprentice) |  
Group I Wage Rate @ $19.62  
Health & Welfare @ 100%............. tod SYN yas NEUES $ 4.89*  
Vacation © $ 3.07**  
### PENSION B 4.23  
Pension B (Annuity) @ &  
Training @ $ .38  
OFS $ .05  
Total $13.34  
Total: $32.96  
* Includes $0.13 for So. Nevada LECET, $0.06 for N.W. LECET. $0.02 for National LECET, and  
$0.02 for National Health & Safety.  
** Includes $0.83 per hour/Supplemental Dues (upon Union’s receipt of appropriate signed  
authorization card).  
** Includes $0.05 per hour Political Action contribution (upon Union’s receipt of appropriate signed  
authorization card).  
The above (**) contributions shall be applied toward the vacation fund, taxed and then deducted  
accordingly.  
And on completion of the 4,432 hours of training, one-hundred percent (100%) of the General  
Laborer wage package.  
28  
### ARTICLE XV  
### APPENDIX B .  
### OUT OF WORK LIST  
### APPENDIX B  
Out of Work List  
When the Local Union is accepting new applications for employment, the following shall  
apply: |  
(The application list, as referred to in Article Il, Section C (1) of this Agreement shall be  
inclusive of the following):  
“A” List - Applicants for employment who have 4,000 hours of experience as a construction  
laborer.  
“B” List — Applicants for employment who have at least 200 but less than 4,000 hours of  
experience as a construction laborer.  
“C” List - Applicants for employment who have less than 500 hours of experience as a _  
construction laborer, and have successfully completed the construction industry aptitude test,  
which will be administered by Laborers Local #872 Training Center.  
Apprenticeship List - Applicants for employment who have been indentured into the  
Southern Nevada Laborers Local 872 Training Program, as approved by the Nevada State  
Apprenticeship Council.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### COMMON WORKING RULES FOR CRAFTS  
The following working rules shall govern the employment of employees working under the  
jurisdiction of the Laborers International Union of North America, Local Union No. 872, in the  
performance of work covered by the terms of this Agreement.  
### 1. SINGLE SHIFT  
Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of lunch period between 4:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.,  
shall constitute a day’s work, Forty (40) hours, Monday 4:30 a.m. through Friday 4:30 p.m.,  
shall constitute a week’s work. During Daylight Savings Time months, start time may be  
modified. All time worked in excess of eight (8) hours, exclusive of lunch period, in a  
twenty-four (24) hour period or all time worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week and all  
time worked before 4:30 a.m. and after 4:30 p.m. and all work performed on Saturdays,  
Sundays and holidays shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.  
29  
The reporting point for the start of the shift shall be at the gang box or job trailer if the  
building is less than six (6) stories in height; and at the ground level entrance of the elevator  
on jobs where the building is in excess of six (6) stories in height. Employees shall be  
allowed a maximum of 15 minutes clean-up prior to the end of each shift. If the Employer  
does not provide sufficient parking within five hundred (500) yards of the reporting point,  
reporting time shall commence at the parking place.  
The parties to this Agreement agree there shall be one ten minute, unorganized break at their  
work station during the first half of the shift and one ten minute, unorganized break at their  
work station during the second half of the shift as long as it does not interfere with  
production.  
The Employer may establish an early starting time, or special shift if directed by Owner  
or awarding body and proper documentation must be provided, by first notifying the Union,  
in writing, and agreed to by the Union, at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the shift  
change, if working hours are outside those contained within this Agreement. Overtime  
premiums shall not apply if proper notification is made, and agreed upon by the Union. The  
permission of the Union shall not be unreasonably  
The Employer may, after first notifying the Union, work a work week consisting of ten  
(10); hours per day for four (4) consecutive days, between tlie hours of 4:30 a.m. and 6:30  
p-m., Monday through Thursday, or Tuesday through Friday but not both, providing all basic  
trades on the work site work the same shift. The four day work week shall remain in effect  
for a minimum of one week. On four ten hour shifts, if employees are required to work on  
_ their first or second scheduled day off, they shall be paid time and one-half (1 '4) for the first  
ten (10) hours. If employees are required to work on their third scheduled day off, and all  
other hours not mentioned above, they shall be paid at the double time rate.  
### MULTIPLE SHIFTS:  
When so elected by the Contractor, multiple shifts may be worked for three or more  
consecutive working days, provided that the Union is notified in writing twenty-four (24)  
hours in advance of the effective date of the starting of such multiple shift operations,  
provided, however, that employees working on multiple shifts shall not be interchangeable  
with those working on a single shift basis. All employees on multiple or single shifts  
commencing work prior to the established starting time, shall be paid at the applicable  
overtime rate. In no event shall the regular working hours of different shifts overlap nor shall  
any interval between shifts exceed the reasonable time necessary to change shifts, and in no  
event shall such interval exceed one (1) hour, except when a special shift is established in  
accordance with Article XVIII, (Public Works), Special Shifts. It is understood that a single  
and multiple shifts may work concurrently on a project.  
When shifts are worked, the first shift shall work eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of  
meal period, for which eight (8) hours straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday.  
The second shift shal! work seven and one-half (7 4) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal  
period, for which eight (8) hours of straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday. The  
third shift shall work seven (7) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which eight  
(8) hour’s straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday.  
All time worked or hours paid for after the above-specified work shifts in any one day or  
Saturday, Sunday and holidays shal} be paid for at the applicable overtime rate.  
30  
### SHIFT OVERTIME:  
A. The Friday graveyard shift ending on Saturday morming will be considered Friday  
work. The Saturday graveyard shift ending on Sunday morning will be considered Saturday  
work. The Sunday graveyard shift ending on Monday morning will be considered Sunday  
work. Any time worked from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight or on holidays, outside  
the regular shift shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate. It is agreed that the  
Contractors and the Union may mutually agree upon different starting or quitting times for  
any of the above mentioned shift arrangements, per bid specifications.  
Workers who are not employed on the job, or specific crew, during the regular working  
hours, shall not be permitted to work overtime on such job or crew until workers on that  
specific crew are given the first chance of refusal of said overtime work, if they are qualified  
to perform said work, then any other worker on that job site is offered an opportunity to work  
overtime, if they are so qualified, except where specialized work is to be performed and  
provided there is not sufficient number of specialty workers on the job.  
B. , Any employee reporting for work at the regular starting time and for whom no work  
is ptdvided, shall receive pay for two (2) hours at the stipulated rate for so reporting unless he  
has been notified before the end of the previous shift not to report, and any employee who  
reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less than four (4) hours’  
pay and if more than four hours are worked in any one day, shall receive not less than six (6)  
hours’ pay and if more than six (6) hours worked in any one day, shall receive not less than  
eight (8) hours’ pay therefore, unless prevented from working for reasons beyorid the control  
of the Contractor, including but not limited to, such factors as inclement weather, or  
breakdown causing discontinuance of a major unit of the project during which time the  
employees are not required or requested to remain on the project by the Contractor or his  
agent. If an employee reports for work, and has not been told by the Employer that there will  
be no work due to an interruption, the employee shall be paid two (2) hours show-up pay at  
the applicable rate. If the employee is assigned work, and there is an interruption of the  
work, beyond the control of the Employer, as stated above, the employee shall receive a  
minimum of four (4) hours at the applicable rate. If the Employee has worked more than four  
(4) hours, and less than eight (8) hours, and there is a discontinuance of work, beyond the  
control of the employer, the employee shall receive actual hours worked at the applicable  
rate.  
31  
en ee or -——  
When working four tens, any employee reporting for work at the regular starting time and for  
whom no work is provided, shail receive pay for three hours at the stipulated rate for so  
reporting unless he has been notified before the end of the previous shift not to report, and  
any employee who reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less  
than 5 hours pay and if more than five hours are worked in any one day, shall receive not less  
than ten hours’ pay therefore, unless. prevented from working for reasons beyond the control  
of the Contractor, including but not limited to, such factors as inclement weather, or  
breakdown causing discontinuance of a major unit of the project during which time the  
employees are not required or requested to remain on the project by the Contractor or his  
agent.  
It is understood that on jobs or projects where employees are assigned to work with or in  
support of other crafts whose normal workday is less than eight (8) hours, the requirements of  
paragraph B above shall apply.  
Employees shall travel to and from the job on their own time and by means of their  
own transportation. The employee shall not be required to carry material or company tools at  
any time in their private automobile.  
” An uninterrupted, established unpaid meal period of one-half (%) hour shall  
commence after the fourth hour and before the end of the fifth hour after the start time of  
each shift. If employees are required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period,  
they shall receive a one-half hour’s pay at time and one-half (1 %). In no event shall an  
employee be required to complete a full shift without a one-half hour uninterrupted meal  
period, If an employee is not afforded an uninterrupted one-half (4) hour meal period during  
their regular shift, they shall be paid an additional one-half (2) hour’of pay at time and one-  
half (1 4). If employees are required to work more than ten (10) hours in a workday, or past  
6:30 p.m,, they shall be afforded a one-half (2) hour meal period for each five (5) hours after  
the established lunch period.  
All wages must be paid by negotiable check showing all deductions, on the job site  
weekly on Thursdays for four (4) ten (10) hour shifts, and Fridays no later than one-half (4)  
hour before quitting time. A special payday may be established upon mutual agreement of  
the parties, however, the Employer may not hold back more than five (5) working days’ pay  
under such special payday. When employees are laid off or discharged, except for cause,  
they must be paid in full, all monies due, at the time of such layoff or discharge, except for  
cause. In the event the employer fails to pay employees laid off or discharged, they shall be  
paid waiting time at the straight time rate of eight (8) hours per day, seven (7) days per week,  
until the time such payments have been made or in accordance with state law.  
When employees are paid by check on other than a local bank, the Employer must  
make arrangements for a local bank to honor his checks. Errors in final paychecks shall be  
brought to the attention of the Union within ten (10) working days, and if not corrected by the  
Employer within one (1) working day of notification by the Union, waiting time shall apply,  
unless caused by conditions outside of the Employer’s control.  
The Employer wil] not require a lien waiver as a condition precedent to receipt of a payroll  
check.  
32  
The Individual Employer shal! show on the paycheck stubs the individual Employer’s  
name, business address, payroll week ending date, total hours, total overtime hours, itemized  
deductions and net pay, plus each contribution made with respect to that payroll period.  
An employee who voluntarily resigns or quits or is discharged for cause shall be paid all  
monies due not later than the employee’s next regular payday.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### ZONE PAY AND TRAVEL TIME  
1. ZONE PAY, Public Works Projects  
a. Employees covered by this Agreement performing work on public works projects shall be  
entitled to the following wage rates for all hours worked. Zone distances are calculated from  
the City Hall, Las Vegas, Nevada by the most direct route by public roadway to:  
### ZONE WAGE RATE:  
Zone 1 (0-30Miles)  
Base Wage Rate  
Zone 2 (30-50 miles)  
$1.50 above Base wage rate  
Zone 3 (50 miles and over)  
$3.25 above Base wage rate  
Laughlin Area  
$2.25 above Base wage rate  
Boulder City is no longer a free zone.  
b. An employee reporting for work at the regular starting time and for whom no work is  
provided shall receive the appropriate zone pay differential for eight (8) hours, in addition to  
show-up pay.  
c. The Union and the Contractor recognize that at times there may be certain problems in  
connection with the manning of projects and therefore it shall be mandatory that a pre-job  
conference be held within seven days after written request from the Union or Contractor on  
jobs over $10 million on Heavy Highway and on Building with list of all sub-contractors in  
order to resolve such questions as to the number of employees to be brought in by the  
Contractor, the approximate number of employees to be hired locally, etc.  
d. In cases where an employee is forced to leave a job prior to the end of his scheduled  
shift, as a result of an industrial injury, certified by medical evidence satisfactory to the  
Contractor, such employee shall suffer no reduction in wages for the balance of that day as a  
result of such injury.  
33  
e. Employees shall be given a rest period of not less than eight (8) hours between the  
termination of any overtime work and the commencement of another straight time shift  
except in cases of emergency. If said rest period is not provided to the employee, the  
employee shall remain on the same overtime status as the last hour worked on the previous  
shift.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### PUBLIC WORKS  
PUBLIC WORKS - In the event an Employer bids public work which is to be performed at  
predetermined prevailing wage rates established under state or federal law, and said rates are  
below the wage rates in this Agreement, the predetermined prevailing wage rates shall apply  
to that project for the duration of the project. In the event a public works job goes beyond  
two (2) years, the Employer agrees to pay appropriate maintenance of benefits throughout the  
remainder of the job, after said two (2) years.  
The Employer may institute two (2) shifts of eight (8) hours each if called for in the awarding  
governmental agency bid specifications, with written notification from the Employer to the  
Union. This provision shall apply only to Public Works jobs.  
Special Shifts:  
A Special Shift may be established under the following conditions:  
1. The bid specifications clearly state that the work can only be performed during times  
outside the regular work day, as specified in this Agreement; and |  
2. Prior, written notification is given to the Union 48 hours prior to start of shift when  
feasible.  
3. The Union is provided with a copy of the section of the specifications stating that shift, and  
the awarding governmental agency number of the job.  
### MONETARY INCREASES:  
The following increases become effective on the dates specified below:  
July 1, 2005-$2.10 per hour package increase  
July 1, 2006-$1.75 per hour package increase  
July 1, 2007 - $ 1.75 per hour package increase  
July 1, 2008- $ 1.75 per hour package increase  
July 1, 2009- $1.75 per hour package increase  
The Union reserves the right to allocate a portion of the increases to wages, Health &  
Welfare, Pension, Vacation/Supplemental Dues and/or Training Fund on the first day of July  
of each year during the term of the Agreement, by giving the Contractors not less than forty  
five (45) days prior written notice.  
34  
### WAGE INCREASE/ALLOCATIONS  
Wage increase/allocations to this Agreement shall be implemented and paid to employees  
within 45 days of receipt of written notification from the Union to the Employer, and be paid  
retroactive to the effective date of such increase/allocation. A penalty of one (1) hour straight  
time rate of pay will be paid to employees for each day of waiting time beyond the 45 days,  
until such Wage Increase/Allocation payments are made.  
The Union shall have the option of distributing these increases to straight time hourly  
wage rate or Fringe Benefit/Contribution Funds. The Union agrees it shall notify the  
Employer at least forty-five (45) days in advance of the proposed effective dates of the  
allocation of such monies.  
### LIGHT COMMERICAL CONSTRUCTION  
Light Commercial Construction shall be defined as all wood frame, concrete block, and  
poured-in-place concrete construction including tilt-ups, not more than two (2) stories in  
height, such as, but not limited to, shopping centers, stores, office buildings, and fast food  
establishments, but excluding hotel-motel gaming projects where a Nevada unlimited  
gambling license or live gambling will be in effect; and where the total cost of the project  
does not exceed ten (10) million dollars, including pads, driveways, walkways, and patios;  
but excluding condominiums, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and on-site underground utilities.  
Work covered by State or Federal prevailing wage laws is excluded from these provisions.  
Employees, covered by this Agreement, performing on-site work:on Light Commercial  
Construction may be paid seventy five percent (75%) of the regular wage rate for the  
classifications set forth in Schedule “A” of this Agreement. The wage rate contained herein  
may be adjusted to preserve work under this Agreement.  
A Joint Labor-Management Committee consisting of three (3) Labor representatives and  
three (3) Management representatives shall be established, with the authority to exceed the  
limitations set out above as follows:  
(i) Adjust the maximum five million dollars ($5M), up to ten percent (10%) based on work  
order changes during the construction of the project.  
(ii) Apply the Light Commercial Construction rate to a project where the total cost is over  
five million dollars ($5M), but otherwise meets the definition in paragraph 2. In order to  
apply the Light Commercial Construction provision, the Employer must furnish, in writing,  
on the letterhead stationary of the Employer, a verification of its representation that the  
job/project is within such definition of Light Commercial Construction work.  
The Joint Labor-Management Committee shall meet within five (5) days of a request from  
Labor or Management.  
35  
ace eed ane ene  
### ARTICLE XIX |  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
The Contractors and the Union mutually recognize the need for implementing equal  
opportunity to all qualified employees and applicants for employment without regard to race,  
color, creed, age, sex, handicap, veteran status, citizenship, marital status, disability, or  
national origin. This obligation extends to: Hiring, placement, upgrading, transfer or  
demotion, recruitment, advertising or solicitation for employment, promotion, layoff,  
termination, rate of pay and other forms of compensation.  
The above policy is consistent with the objectives set forth by Presidential Executive Order  
11246 and other Federal and State Governmental requirements.  
The parties hereto mutually agree to cooperate fully in implementing methods to achieve  
these objectives.  
### ARTICLE XX  
### GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE  
It is not the intent of either party hereto to violate any laws or any rulings or regulations of  
any Governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this  
Agreement and the parties hereto agree that in the event any provisions of this Agreement are  
held or constituted to be void, as being in contravention of any such laws, rulings or  
regulations, the parties hereto agree to enter into immediate negotiations thereon,  
nevertheless, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, unless they  
are found to be wholly inseparable from the remaining portion of this Agreement .  
36  
### ARTICLE XXI  
### CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION  
### AND INDUSTRY FUND  
Each Employer covered by this Agreement shall contribute the sum of five (5) cents  
per hour for each hour worked by employees under the terms of this Agreement to the  
Contract Administration and Industry Fund. For the purpose of administering this Fund the  
individual Employer by becoming signatory to this Agreement does hereby designate the  
Employer Committee to act as agent in all matters concerning the Fund.  
At any time during the term of this Agreement the Association signatory hereto shall  
give sixty (60) days’ advance notice in writing to the Union, this clause shall become null and  
void and will be deleted from the Agreement effective on the date specified in such notice.  
At any time during the term of this Agreement, the Contractors may, upon thirty (30)  
days advance written notice to the Union, increase the Contribution to the Contract  
Administration and Industry Fund not to exceed an additional three (3) cents per hour for  
each hour paid, with the option that all or a portion of any such increase may be designated to  
aid in funding an industry-sponsored affirmative action program. Such increase shall be an  
Employer contribution, added to the total package and shall not, in any manner, negatively  
effect the Employee’s negotiated wage and/or benefits.  
### ARTICLE XXII  
### TERMS-TERMINATION-RENEWAL  
The term of this Agreement shall commence on the 1" day of July, 2005, and continue  
until midnight, the 30" day of June, 2010, and for additional periods of one year thereafter  
unless sixty (60) days prior to midnight, June 30, 2010, or the end of any subsequent yearly  
period, the Associated General Contractors Association, Las Vegas Chapter (hereinafter in  
this Article referred to as the “Contractors”) or the Laborers Local 872, (hereinafter in the  
Article referred to as the “Union”) gives written notice by certified mail of its desire to  
modify, amend and/or terminate this Agreement.  
It is agreed that if The Federal Davis-Bacon Act or State Prevailing Wage Law is repealed  
this Agreement shall be opened for the purposes of re-negotiation of the provisions of that  
section only.  
37  
### ARTICLE  
### TRUST FUNDS CONTRIBUTIONS  
### TRUST FUNDS CONTRIBUTIONS  
The hourly trust fund contribution rates for work covered by this Agreement are contained in  
Schedule “B”, herein as part of this Agreement.  
### TRUST FUNDS  
1. HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND: A Health and Welfare Fund known as the  
Construction Industry and Laborers Health and Welfare Trust has been established by the  
Contractors and the Union by an. Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated June 11, 1962,  
and subsequently amended and restated by the parties. The Contractors agree to abide by all  
terms and conditions of said Agreement and Declaration of Trust and by any rules and  
regulations or by-laws adopted by the Trustees of the Fund and further, to make payments to  
the Fund in the amount designated in Schedule “B” of this Agreement. The Contractors  
accept the Trustees appointed by the Associations as their Trustees. A minimum of 10% of  
the total negotiated i increase shall be allocated to Health & Welfare.  
### 2. PENSION FUND AND PLAN “B” PENSION |  
(a) PENSION FUND: A Pension Fund known as the Construction Industry and  
Laborers Joint Pension Trust has been established by an Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
dated January 1, 1969, which may be subsequently amended and restated by the parties. The  
Contractors agree to abide by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust and by any rules and  
regulations or by-laws adopted by the Trustees of the Fund, to accept the Trustees appointed  
by the Associations as their Trustees and, further, to make payments to the Fund in the  
amount designated in Schedule “B” of this Agreement. Participation by the Contractors in  
said Trust shall be for the duration of this Agreement and any renewals or extensions thereof  
or for the period employees are employed under the terms of: their Agreement. It is  
understood and agreed between the parties and signatories to the Agreement and Declaration  
of Trust that to be included in any individual allocation Increasing the pension contribution  
rate paid by the Employers at the inception of or during the term of this Agreement must be a  
minimum of six (6) cents per hour to be designated for the purpose of reducing the Plan’s  
amortization period. A minimum of 10% of the total negotiated increase shall be allocated to  
Pension Funds “B”’.  
(b) PLAN “B” PENSION FUND: A Pension Fund, known as the Construction  
Industry and Laborers Joint Pension Trust Plan “B”, has been established by an Agreement  
and Declaration of Trust dated July 1, 1998, which may be subsequently amended and  
restated by the parties. The Contractors agree to abide by said Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust and by any rules and regulations or by-laws adopted by the Trustees of the Fund, to  
accept the Trustees appointed by the Associations as their Trustees and, further, to make  
payments to the Fund in the amount designated in Schedule “B” of this Agreement.  
Participation by the Contractors in said Trust shall be for the duration of this Agreement and  
any renewals or extensions thereof or for the period employees are employed under the terms  
of their Agreement. A minimum of 10% of the total negotiated increase shall be allocated to  
Plan “B” Pension Fund.  
38  
3 VACATION FUND: An Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing a  
Laborers Vacation Trust Fund has been executed by the parties which may be subsequently  
amended and restated by the parties. The Contractors agree to abide by said Agreement and  
Declaration of Trust and by any rules and regulations or by laws adopted by the Trustees of  
the Fund, to accept the Trustees appointed by the Associations as their Trustees and, further,  
to make payments to the Fund in the amount designated in Schedule “B” of this Agreement.  
Participation by the Contractors in said Trust shall be for the duration of this Agreement and  
any renewals or extensions thereof or for the period employees are employed under the terms  
of this Agreement. A minimum of 10% of the total negotiated increase shall be allocated to  
Vacation Fund.  
The Vacation Trust Agreement shall provide for vacation payments only once annually on  
December 1", or at such time or under such arrangements as a majority of the Trustees so  
determine. There shall be no emergency draws.  
### 4. | SUPPLEMENTAL DUES  
(a) Subject to the following conditions, the Contractor agrees that each employee may give  
written authorization to the Board of Trustees of the Laborers Vacation Trust Fund to pay  
the Union from the funds held by the Trustees on his behalf the amount designated in the  
authorization card for each hour of his employment (hours worked or paid) in each  
payroll period commencing July 1, 2005, as special Supplemental Dues owed by the  
employee to the Union.  
(b) The Union shall bear the entire responsibility for obtaining the written authorization from  
the employee and furnishing the authorization to the Board of Trustees in a form  
satisfactory to the Trustees. All costs, expenses and fees of the Board of Trustees,  
incidental to the accounting, administration, and remittance to the Union of the  
Supplemental Dues Payment shall be borne solely and entirely by the Union. The  
Contractors and Union agree to amend the Agreement and Declaration of Trust in the  
Laborers Vacation Trust for the purpose of authorizing, allocating and distributing the  
foregoing sums. This provision shall in no way affect the obligation of the Contractor to  
pay the full amount of vacation contributions specified in this Agreement.  
(c) All written authorizations referred to above shall be irrevocable for a period of one (1)  
year from the date of the execution and shall renew automatically from year to year  
thereafter, unless the employee has served written notice upon the Board of Trustees and  
to the Union, not more than twenty (20) days and not less than ten (10) days prior to the  
expiration of each period of one (1) year of the period of this Agreement, whichever is  
sooner, terminating the authorization.  
39  
reer <8 owe  
C.  
### 5. TRAINING FUND  
A Training Fund known as the Southern Nevada Laborers, Local 872 Training Trust and  
Apprenticeship has been established-by an Agreement and Declaration of Trust; which may  
be subsequently amended and restated by the parties: The Contractors agree to abide by all  
the terms and conditions of said Agreement and Declaration of Trust and by any rules and  
regulations or by-laws adopted by the Trustees of the Fund, to accept the Trustees appointed  
by the Associations as their Trustees, and further, to make payments to the Fund in the  
amount designated in Schedule “B” of this Agreement. Participation by the Contractors in  
said trust shall be for the duration of this Agreement and any renewals or extensions thereof  
or for the duration of this Agreement and any renewals or extensions thereof or for the period  
employees are employed under the terms of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### TRUST FUND RIGHTS AND REMEDIES  
### DUES OBLIGATIONS  
All Laborers Fringe Benefit Funds provided by this Agreement shall be jointly  
administered by Trustees designated equally between the Union and the Employers. The  
‘Union and the Association agree to make every effort to place an equal number of Employer  
Trustees from each Employer group on ali Trust Funds and/or Labor-Management Funds  
referenced in this Agreement.  
Except as to Employers previously bound to an Association agreement who have not been  
substantially delinquent as defined by the parties to this Agreement, each Employer shall post  
and maintain a bond to ensure payment of contributions to the Fringe Benefit Funds set forth  
in this Agreement and remittance of dues check-offs and contributions to the Union. The  
minimum amount of the bond shall be determined by the number of hours of work covered  
by this Agreement performed by employees of the Employer in the prior year. The minimum  
amount of the bond shall be as follows:  
Number of Hours Worked Minimum Bond  
0 to 1,999 hours $ 5,000  
2,000 to 4,999 hours $10,000  
5,000 to 9,999 hours $20,000  
10,000 to 19,999 hours $35,000  
20,000 or more hours $50,000  
In lieu of a bond or as a supplement to a bond, an Employer may, at the sole discretion and  
upon the sole consent of the Trustees of the Laborers Fringe Benefit Funds, furnish cash  
and/or collateral alternatives in satisfaction of this bonding requirement.  
40  
D.  
In the event the Trustees receive payment either on a bond or through forfeiture of a  
certificate or collateral alternative under this section of the Agreement and said payment is  
insufficient to satisfy the entire deficiency in the payment of contributions to the Fringe  
Benefit Funds set forth in this Agreement and in the remittance of dues check-offs to the  
Union, then the Trustees shall make a pro rata payment to each of the Fringe Benefit Funds  
set forth in this Agreement and to the Union in an amount equivalent to the percentage of the  
total deficiency received by the Trustees through forfeiture of the bond_or the certificate of  
deposit.  
All payments required to be made by each Employer to the Health and Welfare Fund,  
Pension Funds, Vacation Fund, Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund, and Contract  
Administration and Industry Fund shall be due and payable to the appropriate fund no later  
than the tenth (10°) day of the month for-all hours worked by employees covered by this  
Agreement during the preceding month. An-Employer who has not made such payments by  
the twentieth (20") day of the month shall be considered to be in violation of this Agreement  
and a delinquent Employer. The grievance and arbitration procedure contained in Article IV  
expressly does not apply to any provision of this Article and exhaustion of the Grievance  
arbitration procedure shall not be a.condition precedent to suit by the Fringe Benefit Funds or  
the Union. Within five (5) days of receipt of notice from the Administrative Office that an  
Employer is delinquent in the payment of any fringe benefits as set forth above, the  
Administrator will give written notice by certified mail or telegram (with copy to the General  
Contractor) to pay the delinquent amounts due all. trust funds within four (4) working days  
from the receipt of such notice.  
The Employers and the Union agree that in addition to all other. tights and remedies  
provided for by this Agreement, the Union and/or the Laborers Fringe Benefit Funds shall  
notify the Association and any General Contractors that, upon reasonable belief, a signatory  
employer is delinquent to the Laborers Fringe Benefit Funds. This notice may be in the form  
of a letter specifically related to the delinquent employer or in the form of a delinquency list  
containing the names of all delinquent employers.  
Upon receipt of such notice the General Contractor shall withhold all further payments to  
the delinquent employer, whether designated as retention money or otherwise, and upon  
proof satisfactory+to the General Contractor shall pay over that money to the Funds until the  
entire delinquency for that job is cured. All signatory employers hereby agree that payment  
to the Funds by a General.Contractor under this clause shall constitute payment by the  
delinquent employer to the extent of the amount paid.  
The Employer agrees that in the event payment to the Funds by check results in the check  
being returned without payment, the Employer shall pay $250.00 to the Funds. The Funds do  
not waive any right to any other liquidated damages to which they may be entitled.  
The Union may withdraw Employees from any job to enforce payment of wages or  
contributions to the Laborers Fringe Benefit Funds for its direct employees, or to enforce  
payment to the Union of Union dues already deducted from the wages of Laborers. The  
Union must provide 5 business days notice of its intention to remove Laborers from a job to  
the Employer by registered or certified mail. No damages of any kind or nature shall be  
awarded or allowed against the Union or any officer or member thereof by reason of the  
withdrawal of employees from a job on which written notice has been given in accordance  
with this Agreement.  
41  
In the event that no workers are employed during a report period, a negative report and/or  
a final report shall be filed.  
The books and records of the Employer shall be made available at reasonable times for  
inspection and audit'by the accountants or other representatives of the Funds. The Employer  
shall retain, for a minimum period of six years, payroll and related records necessary for the  
conduct of a proper audit in order that a duly designated representative of the Trustees may  
make periodic review to that contributions owed pursuant to this Agreement are paid  
in full.  
. The Trustees of the Laborers’ Benefit Trust Funds, when the Trustees deem it prudent,  
shall be required to take action against the delinquent Contractor and/or his Bond prior to  
taking any action whatsoever against the General Contractor the Contractor is contracted  
with.  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### MISCELLANEOUS  
Laborers Political Action League.  
Subject to the conditions below, the Employer agrees that each employee may give  
written authorization to the Board of Trustees of the Laborers: Vacation Trust Fund to deduct  
from the funds held by the Trustees in the employee’s behalf the amount designated in the  
authorization card for each hour of employment (hours worked or paid) in each payroll period  
as a voluntary donation to the Laborers Political Action League for political purposes.  
The Union shall bear the entire responsibility for obtaining the appropriate written  
authorization from the employee and furnishing the authorization to the Board of Trustees in  
a form satisfactory to the Trustees. All costs, expenses and fees of the Board of Trustees  
incidental to the accounting, administration, and remittance to the Laborers Political Action  
League of the payment shall. be borne solely and entirely by the Laborers Action  
League: The Employers and the Union agree to amend the Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust in the Laborers Vacation Trust for the purpose of providing for the deduction for the  
forgoing purpose. This provision shall in no way affect the obligation of the Employer to pay  
the full amount of vacation contributions specified in this Agreement.  
LIUNA National Laborers Employers Cooperation & Education Trust Fund  
Each Employer shall contribute to the LIUNA National Laborers Employers Cooperation  
& Education Trust Fund the amount designated in Schedule “B” of this Agreement. Such  
contribution shall be made payable to the Construction Industry and Laborers Health and  
Welfare Trust and shall be remitted by the Trust to the National Laborers Employers  
Cooperation & Education Trust Fund.  
42  
Laborers Health & Safety Fund of North America  
Each Employer shall contribute to the Laborers Health and Safety Fund of North America  
the amount designated in Schedule “B” of this Agreement. Such contribution shall be made  
payable to the Construction Industry and Laborers Health and Welfare Trust for the purpose  
specified herein and shail be remitted by the Trust to the Laborers Health and Safety Fund of  
North America.  
### APPENDIX A  
### DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE DETECTION  
### AND PREVENTION PROGRAM  
The parties recognize the problems which drug abuse have created in the construction  
industry and the need to develop drug abuse prevention programs. Accordingly, the parties  
agree that in order to enhance the safety of the workplace and to maintain a drug and alcohol-  
free work environment, individual Employers may require applicants or employees to  
undergo drug screening. The parties agree that if a screening program is implemented by an  
individual Employer, the following items have been agreed upon by Labor and Management.  
It is understood that the use, possession, transfer, or sale of illegal drugs, narcotics, or other  
unlaful substance is absolutely prohibited while employees are on the Employer’s job  
premises or while working on any site in connection with work performed under the  
applicable agreement.  
All applicants or newly hired employees will undergo a drug screen at the direction of the  
Employer, but not later than five (5) days after commencement of work, at a facility agreed  
upon by the Employer and the Union. The Employer agrees to pay each applicant or  
employee who takes and passes the drug screen tests for all the time it takes to undergo the  
drug screen up to a maximum of two (2) hours travel time plus lab time.  
Applicants not passing the drug and/or alcohol screen will not be placed on the Employer’s  
payroll or receive any compensation. Employees not passing the drug and/or alcohol screen  
will be removed from the Employer’s payroll. The Employer agrees to pay the cost for  
administering the drug and/or alcohol screen. Applicants not passing the drug or alcohol  
screening will be subject to the terms and conditions set forth per the employment regulations  
for that project.  
The Employer may require that an employee be tested for drugs and/or alcohol where the  
‘Employer has reasonable cause to believe that the employee is impaired from performing  
his/her job. Observation must be made by at least two (2) persons, one (1) of whom must be  
a Union employee. This provision shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner. For  
employees who refuse to take a test where the prerequisites set forth in this paragraph have  
been met, there will be a rebuttable presumption that the test result would have been positive  
for an unlawful substance.  
An Employer may require that an employee who contributed to an accident be tested for  
drugs and/or alcohol.  
There will be no random drug and/or alcohol testing by the signatory Employer.  
43  
10.  
11.  
12.  
It is understood that the unsafe use of prescribed medication, or where the'use of prescribed  
medication impairs the employee’s ability to perform work, is a basis for removal.  
A sufficient amount of urine sample shall be taken to allow for an initial test and a  
confirmation test. The initial test will be an Enzyme Multiplied Immunoassay Technique  
(EMIT) or an oral swab test approved by a Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services  
Agency (SAMHSA) certified laboratory. In the event a question or positive result arises from  
the initial test, a confirmation test must be utilized before action can be taken against the  
employee or applicant. The confirmation test will be by Gas Chromatography - Mass  
Spectrometry (GC/MS). The cutoff levels for both the initial test and confirmation test will  
be those established by the National Institute of Drug Abuse. Confirmed positive samples  
will be retained by the testing laboratory in secured long term frozen storage for a minimum  
of one (1) year. Handling and transportation of each sample must be documented through  
strict chain of custody procedures.  
Any applicants who have been informed prior to referral of Employers requirements to pass a  
drug test and accept a referral and fails an Employer or Union required drug or alcohol test or  
is discharged for possessing, using or being under the influence of drugs or alcohol on the job  
shall be removed from the out-of-work-list for:  
, 1* offence = 30 days  
2™ offence = 90 days  
3" offence = 1 year  
. Additionally, the applicant must present the Union with documentation of the completion of  
an appropriate rehabilitation or counseling program. After the second offence, the applicant  
shall be responsible for rehabilitation and counseling at his or her own expense. The  
imposition of the suspension from the list shall not commence until the applicant returns to or  
re-registers out-of-work-list. The applicant will be responsible for re-registering again  
on the out-of-work-list after the specific suspension and they will be placed at the bottom of  
the list.  
Present employees, if tested positive shall have the prerogative for a rehabilitation-program at  
the employee’s expense or through the Union’s Health and Welfare Trust, if applicable, and  
so desired. When such program has been successfully completed, the Employer shall not  
discriminate in any way against the employee. If work for which the employee is qualified  
exists, he/she shall be reinstated.  
Any dispute which arises under this drug and/or alcohol policy shall be submitted to the  
grievance and arbitration procedure set forth in the applicable Agreement.  
In the event an individual Employer is required, as a condition of contract award, to abide by  
the terms and conditions of an owner’s drug and/or alcohol policy, the Employer will notify  
the interested Unions in writing prior to implementing such policy and shall be discussed at  
the pre-job conference.  
The established or operation of this policy shall not curtail any right of an employee found  
unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction or a public agency having jurisdiction over the  
parties, the remaining portions of the policy shall be unaffected and the parties shall enter  
negotiations to replace the affected provision.  
44  
13.  
14.  
The Employer shall indemnify and hold the Union harmless against any and all claims,  
demands, suits, or liabilities that may arise solely out of the Employer’s application of the  
Substance Abuse Program.  
There will be no individual random drug and/or alcohol testing by the signatory contractor.  
The Employers will be allowed to conduct periodic job site drug and/or alcohol testing on  
construction projects under the following conditions:  
All employees of the Employer on the job site must be tested; including office staff  
and Supervisory personnel.  
2. Job site testing cannot commence sooner than thirty (30) days after start of the work  
on the project;  
3. Prior to the start of periodic testing, a Business Rep will be allowed to conduct an  
educational period on Company time to explain the periodic job site drug and/or  
alcohol testing program to the affected employees;  
4, Job site testing, including collection, retention and testing of specimens shall te in  
accordance with SAMHSA rules for safeguarding the integrity and accuracy of such  
tests and conducted by a laboratory certified by SAMHSA.  
“ae  
45  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement, to be executed by their  
duly authorized representatives as of this 1“ day of July 2005.  
### FOR THE CONTRACTORS,  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION:  
oo Loh, - fo Ie Te  
By:  
Name Title  
### NEGOTIATION COMMITTEE  
### FOR THE LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### NORTH AMERICA, LOCAL 872:  
7m  
Thomas White Business Manager-Secretary Treasurer  
By: SS Gass oe. SS SQ  
David McCune President  
.  
By; iC o  
Ronnie Norwood  
   
By: A. On. Vong  
Patrick Donnan Secretary  
46