Lop DO  
### SD]  
### EFFECTIVE  
, 7)  
### MARCH 1, FEBRUARY 28,  
2004 to 2007  
### AGREEMENT  
z  
5  
Entered into between  
### UTILITY AND TRANSPORTATION  
### CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION  
### AND THE  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS of NEW JERSEY  
and  
### LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF NORTH AMERICA  
### HEAVY AND GENERAL  
### CONSTRUCTION  
### LABORERS’  
LOCALS 472 and 172  
### of the STATE of NEW JERSEY  
a  
### CODE  
   
MARCH 1, 2004 to FEBRUARY 28, 2007  
### AGREEMENT  
Entered into between  
### UTILITY AND TRANSPORTATION  
### CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION  
### AND THE  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS of NEW JERSEY  
and  
### LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF NORTH AMERICA  
### HEAVY AND GENERAL  
### CONSTRUCTION  
### LABORERS’  
LOCALS 472 and 172  
### of the STATE of NEW JERSEY  
GED =:  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Preamble  
1, U.T.C.A, and A.G.C. Recognition  
2. Union Recognition and Work Jurisdiction  
a Territorial Jurisdiction  
4. Jurisdictional Disputes  
2. Hiring  
5A. Apprenticeship  
5B. Drug Free Workplace  
6. Union Security  
7. Pre-Job Conference  
8. Unemployment Compensation  
9, Job Stewards  
10. Union Visitation Rights  
ad: Picket Line  
12. Work Performance  
13. Featherbedding  
14, Subcontractors  
15. Safety Codes  
16. Work and Protective Clothing  
17. Grievance and Arbitration Procedure  
18. Wages  
19. Wage Payment Procedure  
20. Union Dues Supplement  
20A. N.J.S.L.P.A.C./L.E.R.O.F. Deduction  
21. Hours of Work  
22. Partial Day Pay  
23. Foreman  
24. Shifts  
24A, Work at Nuclear Plants  
25. Lunch  
34.  
35.  
35A.  
35B.  
35C.  
35D.  
35E.  
36.  
37.  
Driller’s Helper  
Watchmen  
New Work Classification  
Work at Hazardous Waste Sites  
Higher Rate Classification  
Holidays Observed  
Holiday Pay  
Employee Discharge Pay  
Welfare Fund  
a) Rates  
b) Payment for Holidays  
c) Purposes and Coverage  
d} Employer Trustees  
e} Union Trustees  
f) Right to Audit  
Pension Fund  
a) Rates  
b} Payment for Holidays  
c) Purposes and Coverage  
d) Union as Employer  
e) Employee Participation  
f} Right to Audit  
Safety, Education and Training Fund  
Group Legal Services  
Defined Contribution Fund  
Vacation Fund  
N.J. State Laborers Health and Safety Trust  
Fund  
N} Laborers-Employers Cooperation and  
Education Trust  
Construction Industry Advancement  
Program  
Insurance for Employer’s Liability Under  
### ERISA  
38. Collection Costs  
ao. Fund Arbitration  
40. Fringe Benefit Payment Bond  
41, Subcontractor Assignment of Monies  
42. Successors in Interest  
43. Preservation of Unit Work  
44, Contractors Associations’ Agreement  
45. Renegotiation Notice  
46. Termination Date of Agreement  
47. Separability of Provisions  
48. Non Prevailing Wage Work  
49. Construction Specialist  
U.T.C.A. /A.G.C. Signature Page  
Stipulation  
Signature Page  
Index  
### PREAMBLE  
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into  
this 2nd day of March, 2004, effective as of March  
1, 2004, by and between the UTILITY AND TRANS-  
### PORTATION CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION  
### (U.T.C.A.)AND THEASSOCIATED GENERAL CON-  
TRACTORS (A.GC.) OF NEW JERSEY, party of the  
first part, hereinafter designated as the “Employer”,  
### and LABORERS’ LOCALS NO. 472 AND 172 OF THE  
STATE OF NEW JERSEY, party of the second part,  
hereinafter designated as the “Union.”  
It is understood that the Utility and Transpor-  
tation Contractors Association and the Associated  
General Contractors of New Jersey are acting only  
as agents for the negotiation of this contract and  
that it is an agent for those persons, corporations or  
partnerships who have so authorized the Associa-  
tion, in writing, that they will be bound by this Agree-  
ment entered into by the Association on their behalf.  
In no event shall the Association be bound as a  
principal or an Employer or be held liable in any man-  
ner for any breach of this contract by any of the  
persons, corporations or partnerships as “Employ-  
ers” who have authorized the Association to execute  
this contract on their behalf. It is further agreed and  
understood that the liabilities of the said persons,  
5  
corporations or partnerships shall be several and  
not joint. It is further understood that the liabilities  
of the Unions signing this contract shall be several  
and not joint.  
It is the intent of the Agreement that it will be  
mutual. The Employer will cooperate with the Unions  
and said Unions will in turn cooperate with the Em-  
ployer to the end that the work may be accomplished  
with the efficiency and economy that is necessary in  
order that the Agreement may prove of mutual ad-  
vantage. No project labor agreement (PLA) may su-  
persede this agreement or any of its provisions or  
articles without the mutual consent of the parties.  
Further adding that a representative of the employer  
associations shall participate in any PLA negotia-  
tions.  
1 U.T.C.A. /A.GC. Recognition  
The Utility and Transportation Contractors  
Association of New Jersey, it is understood, shall be  
the sole bargaining representative with the Union  
for all members of the Association carrying on work  
in this State as defined in this Agreement.  
The Associated General Contractors of New  
Jersey, it is understood, shall be the sole bargaining  
representative with the Union for all members of the  
Association carrying on work in this State as de-  
fined in this Agreement.  
2. Union and Work Jurisdiction  
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole  
and exclusive collective bargaining representative  
for all employees employed by the Employer engaged  
in all work of any description whatsoever concern-  
ing the clearing, excavating, filling, back-filling and  
landscaping of all sites, and when at the discretion  
of the Employer the Employer chooses to place an  
employee for the purposes of spotting, dumping and.  
counting of all trucks and the counting off delivery  
slips, that employee wil! be a laborer or foreman cov-  
ered under this agreement. [n addition to all work  
concerning excavation, foundation, highway, drive-  
ways, the pouring, placing and finishing of all con-  
crete, including all work in connection with stamped  
concrete, the caulking and sealing of road joints, the  
handling and placing of stone, brick or concrete pav-  
ers including the cutting of same, the preparation  
and screeding of the bed, all tamping, sweeping and  
sanding in connection with their installation, all road-  
way and site curbs, parking lots, access roads, rock  
drilling of any kind irrespective of equipment used,  
blasting, the operation of directional drills, the op  
eration of any ground penetrating radar device (GPR),  
sewers, water and sewage treatment plants, Power  
plants, Co-generation facilities, pumping stations,  
resource recovery facilities, reclamation of  
hazardous waste sites; railroad tracks; jetties, groins,  
breakwaters or any other structure designed for pro-  
tection of beaches or to stop beach erosion; includ-  
ing the installation, placing, loading, unloading, mov-  
ing, storing, and tying together and all other work  
related to gabion baskets; the unloading, handling  
and installation of mesh and roadway mats, the un-  
loading and handling of fiberglass products, cold  
patch work, wrapping and coating of all pipe, the  
demolition of structures on the right of way of high-  
way construction, the demolition of all types of struc-  
tures when said structures’ materials are not to be  
used again on a specific project, pre-cast erection,  
the handling and installation of all pre-cast products  
for retaining walls and other uses, the setting of pre-  
cast barrier curbs, whether they be for sound protec-  
tion or traffic protection, all work in connection with  
pre-cast noise walls and earth walls, to include seal-  
ing, coating, caulking and grouting, and pre-cast  
concrete barrier curb, landscape work, power buggy  
and duct line work, installation of fibre optic cable  
and all work related thereto, conduit work of any  
description, pipes, dikes, dams, reservoirs, tanks,  
  
8  
heavy and general construction work, power wash-  
ing by any method, sandblasting, burning and cut-  
ting involving demolition of, cutting and welding of  
railroad metals, all 3rd rail railroad work, operation of  
power spike pullers, power spike drivers, power track  
jacks, tamping machines and similar rail and track  
laying equipment , spiking of all rails, contact rails,  
third rail tracks and ties, including the welding, other  
fastening and other bonding of all running rails and  
tracks; the mixing, pouring and placing of grout, the  
drilling, grouting and installation of all dowels and  
anchor bolts, dry packing and concrete for all track  
related work including but not limiting to rails, ties,  
tracks, plates and columns; placing and tamping of  
ballast by hand or mechanical means, all mastic and  
membrane waterproofing on all roads, bridges, tun-  
nels, shafts, landfills, retaining walls, foundations  
and other structures, all epoxy work, the tending of  
salamanders when fueled by solid fuels, propane,  
diesel fuel, kerosene, charcoal or coal, as normally  
used for temporary heat and/or curing of concrete,  
the handling of all construction materials and other  
work in the State of New Jersey as defined and fixed  
in the Manual of Jurisdiction (Part 1) of October 1961  
of the Laborers’ International Union of North  
America, incorporated herein by reference. It is  
agreed that all work described in this Agreement or  
9  
in the Manual of Jurisdiction shall be performed only  
by employees covered by this Agreement. It is spe-  
cifically understood that bargaining unit work within  
the meaning of this Article and this Agreement, in-  
cludes any work performed in connection with car-  
rying of lumber to the point of erection, unloading of  
forms, cleaning of lumber, oiling of forms, and the  
final stripping of forms on any structure which will  
not be used again on that particular project, and the  
removal and cut off, by any means, of all sheeting  
and piles, the coring, drilling, handling and use of  
templates for installing and grouting anchor bolts,  
the unloading, handling and installation of liner  
plates either vertical or horizontal, pipe or conduit of  
all kinds and of any description and for whatever  
purpose including, but not limited to, al! work con-  
nected with the loading, unloading, installation, dis-  
tribution or handling of pipe or conduit of any kind  
or description, or any other material used in the per-  
formance of work as set forth above; all work con-  
nected with the loading, unloading, installation, dis-  
tribution, or handling of fibre optic cable, all labor  
work (including skilled and semiskilled) for the con-  
struction or an installation of utility lines, metallic  
and nonmetallic, clay, Terra-cotta, ironstone, vitri-  
fied and steel pipe, concrete, concrete reinforced,  
cast iron, fiberglass, Orangeburg, transite, plastic,  
10  
etc. pipe for storm and sanitary sewers and drain-  
age; fusion of pipe; breaking of any pavement by  
any method, laser operations for pipe installations,  
water lines; pumping stations; water and sewage  
treatment plants, solid waste and sludge disposal  
and recycling plants; cables; ducts; air lines; gas  
lines, steam lines, conduit lines, making and fusing  
of joints; setting and driving of sheeting and lag-  
ging and shoring of all ditches, trenches, chambers  
and underground structures; trenching; manhole  
erectors and installing and finishing of channels and  
benches in manholes and other underground struc-  
tures; installation of well points, the installation of  
coffer dams, wick drains, or any other de-watering  
system, digging and backfilling of all ditches, cut-  
ting of streets and surfaces and refinishing of same,  
in free air tunnel projects; all other utility work and  
projects relating to drainage, sanitation, sewage dis-  
posal, irrigation, flood control, water supply and simi-  
lar utility construction work, whether such work 1s or  
is not part of, or incidental to building construction  
and/or improvement, and whether such work is in-  
side or outside of property lines on public or private  
property, on or off streets, on highways, or on or off  
building or other construction sites; in regard to  
building, all work as described above shall be per-  
formed from the point of first connection outside the  
11  
building foundation; all the unloading and distribu-  
tion of all pipe and material used in the performance  
of work as set forth above; the installation of utility  
meters, all the service connections of pipe from main  
sewers or water lines to the point of first connection  
outside the building foundation and all laying and  
installing of pipe, the relining, cleaning, coating and  
sealing ofall pipe and making of all connections and/  
or joints on any and all types of pipe for water, sewer  
and/or any other uses.  
In construction of open cuts all work in con-  
nection with piling and in connection with bracing  
and lagging: all work involving “Krings System”  
projects or other similar systems: and in construc-  
tion of piers, wharves and other structures requiring  
the use of heavy framing of wood, steel, or concrete  
as bracing against water and earth pressures and the  
installation and testing of all types of tie-backs: the  
erecting of all materials used (i.) up to and including  
the ordinance piece or piers (ii.) up to the deck of  
bridges over water and approaches thereto, and (iii.)  
up to the corresponding member of other structures.  
The positioning, placing and pouring of concrete,  
grout, sand or stone into pipe piles, shell pites, cais-  
sons and monotube piling by any method, (includ-  
ing truck, crane bucket or pump).  
All manufacturing and laying of sheet asphalt,  
12  
cold mix and bituminous mixtures, including bumers  
and heaters on new and repair work and all other  
asphalt work of any nature whatsoever including  
but not limited to roadways, airports, parking lots,  
driveways, site work, the operation of any laser  
screed, and all black top work.  
The transportation as when directed by the  
Employer, on the project site or from the yard, of all  
tools, equipment and personnel (excluding all per-  
sonal transportation) pertaining to all jurisdiction  
covered under this agreement and when directed by  
the employer, the operation of All Terrain Vehicles  
(ATV’s), compact utility loader (also called a ““dingo”’),  
mason dumps when performing masonry work, pick-  
ups when used by the foreman.  
All flagmen, traffic directors or at the discre-  
tion of the employer, traffic control coordinators or  
any other person engaged in directing traffic, pro-  
tecting crossings, safeguarding the public or any  
private persons or property, or otherwise engaged in  
any other safety duties involving highway construc-  
tion, shall be covered by this Agreement, where lo-  
cal conditions.permit. They shall be paid the basic  
laborer’s rate. .  
Tunnels  
Historically, the Union as the sole representa-  
tive of the employees covered under this agreement,  
13  
has acquired and maintained an expanded craft juris-  
diction in the construction of new tunnels or in the  
repair, rehabilitation or modification of existing tun-  
nels. The work in tunnels to be performed by em-  
ployees covered under this agreement is as follows  
but not limited to:  
All work for all tunneling operations, includ-  
ing but not limited to subways, railroads, sewer, wa-  
ter, vehicular and utility tunnels and all shafts, man-  
holes and access ways in connection therewith, all  
work in connection with but not limited to, the exca-  
vation, dewatering, shoring, forming, the pouring,  
placing and finishing of concrete and grout and the  
reinforcing of same by any means, the handling and  
installation of all pre-cast products, the loading, un-  
loading and handling of all materials, the  
of temporary wiring, all signaling, caulking, mining,  
drilling and blasting, the laying of all pipe and con-  
duit and other work. The broader scope of the tun-  
nel jurisdiction covered under this agreement is fur-  
ther identified in the tunnel classifications as stated  
under Article 18 of this agreement, whether in com-  
pressed air or free air or by soil solidification meth-  
ods or otherwise in rock or in soft ground and whether  
driven by liner plate, by shield, by mole or otherwise.  
Such operations are hereinafter collectively referred  
to as “the  
14  
The employer recognizes that the Union has  
acquired jurisdiction of the trade in New Jersey and  
agrees that it will not assist or abet violations of  
such acquired jurisdiction in the hiring of Employ-  
ees or in the continuation of employment of such  
Employees.  
Any work jurisdiction now exercised by Heavy  
and General Laborers’ Locals 472 and 172 of the La-  
borers’ International Union of North America shall  
be recognized by the Utility and Transportation Con-  
tractors Association and the Associated General  
Contractors of New Jersey.  
3. Territorial Jurisdiction  
This Agreement defines the territory of Heavy  
and General Laborers’ Locals 472 and 172 as follows:  
Local No. 472 covers Hudson, Bergen, Passaic,  
Mors, Warren, Essex, Union, Middlesex, Hunterdon,  
Sussex, Somerset, and Monmouth Counties.  
Local No. 172 covers Atlantic, Burlington,  
Camden, Cape May, Cumberland, Gloucester, Mer-  
cer, Ocean, and Salem Counties.  
4. Jurisdictional Disputes  
In the event of a jurisdictional dispute arising  
15  
under this Agreement, there shall be no work stop-  
page, picketing or slowdown.  
It being the intention of the parties hereto to  
protect the working conditions and standards es-  
tablished by the parties and to preserve the job and  
work opportunities for employees covered by this  
Agreement, the Employer shall not assign any of the  
aforementioned work to employees who are not cov-  
ered by this Agreement. Any such assignment of  
work to employees other than employees covered  
by this Agreement or any violation of Article 14 of  
this Agreement shall be considered a grievance which  
may be submitted by the Union to final and binding  
arbitration directly to any arbitrator on a list of six  
arbitrators mutually agreed upon by both Union and  
Management, taken from the List of Arbitrators pro-  
vided by the New Jersey State Board of Mediation.  
(This list of arbitrators is to be established within  
thirty.days of the signing of this agreement). The  
arbitrator shall hold a hearing concerning the dis-  
pute after giving notice of the place and date of the  
hearing to the Union and Employer. No hearing will  
be held without first giving notice to the parties.  
The hearing shall be held promptly and in no event  
more than seven (7) days after the submission of the  
grievance. In the event the arbitrator finds a viola-  
tion of the Agreement, it is agreed that the arbitrator  
16  
shall order the Employer to reassign the work in is-  
sue to employees covered by this Agreement and  
other appropriate relief.  
The Employer agrees that he shall not be a  
party to the National Joint Board for the Settlement  
of Jurisdictional Disputes, or its successor, nor shall  
he submit any work dispute to said Board. In the  
event the Employer violates this paragraph of the  
Agreement, the Union, without notice to the Em-  
ployer, may apply to any court having jurisdiction or  
to any arbitrator on the Official Arbitrator List of the  
New Jersey State Board of Mediation for an order  
requiring the Employer to cease and desist from be-  
ing a party to, or submitting to, the Joint Board. In  
the event the Employer has already notified, or sub-  
mitted to, the Joint Board, the order shall require the  
Employer to withdraw the notification or submission.  
The Employer shail be liable for all losses incurred or  
damages sustained by any person as a result of any  
submission or notification to or participation in the  
Joint Board.  
5. Hiring  
It is the intention of the parties that this Agree-  
ment shall constitute a non-exclusive hiring hall ar-  
rangement, but the Union shall be given equal op-  
17  
   
portunity with other sources to supply on a nondis-  
criminatory basis the Employer’s requirements for  
qualified employees, subject, however, to Article 5A  
below.  
There shall be no unlawful discrimination by  
the Employer or the Unions with respect to the hir-  
ing, tenure, or discharge of any workman or the re-  
ferral of any person for employment and shall not be  
based on, or in any way affected by Union member-  
ship, bylaws, rules, regulations, constitutional pro-  
visions or any other aspect or obligation of Union  
membership, policies or requirements, and any re-  
quirements as to membership or non-membership in  
any Union shall be in accordance with the National  
Labor Relations Act of 1947, as amended.  
When an Employer hires men from sources  
other than the Union, a party to this Agreement, the  
Union shall be notified by the Employer giving the  
name, address, and classification of the men hired,  
within three (3) days from the date of employment.  
Failure by an Employer to notify the Union head-  
quarters within said three (3) days shall constitute a  
violation of this Agreement and shall be cause for  
the employees of such Employer to strike.  
The Employer retains the right to reject any  
job applicant referred by the Union.  
No applicant for employment, or employee  
18  
covered by this Agreement shall be discriminated  
against by reason of race, religion, color, place of  
origin, age, sex, or sexual orientation and the parties  
hereto agree to comply with any and all state and  
federal laws, rules and regulations promulgated pur-  
suant thereto, guaranteeing civil rights and equal  
employment opportunity to all persons. This clause  
is especially cognizant of the responsibilities under  
Executive Order 11246 and any order or regulations  
promulgated subsequent thereto.  
3A. Apprenticeship  
(1) The Union and Employer Associations have  
established the Construction Craft Laborers’ Appren-  
ticeship Program (CCLAP). New applicants for em-  
ployment who are not members of the Union shall  
within five business days provide the Apprentice  
Coordinator, with reasonable proof that they have  
4,000 hours or more experience as Construction Craft  
Laborers. Those applicants who cannot demonstrate  
4,000 or more hours of experience as Construction  
Craft Laborers shall within five (5) business days  
apply to the Apprenticeship Program. Any applicant  
rejected by the Program, or who fails to complete his  
or her application or other Program requirements for  
acceptance, or if accepted, fails to maintain or com-  
plete his or her Apprenticeship, shall be terminated  
by the Employer upon notice of the same by the  
Apprenticeship Coordinator. If at any time the  
employer’s workforce covered under this agreement  
does not conform to or meet the ratio which may be  
established in the Apprentice standard except those  
instances where an excess of apprentices are em-  
ployed, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement  
nor shall it be a matter to be remedied by either party  
or any participant covered by this Agreement under  
Article 17 of the Grievance and Arbitration proce-  
dure.  
(2) The Apprenticeship and Training Stan-  
dards approved by the Federal Bureau of Appren-  
ticeship and Training are hereby incorporated by  
reference as a part of this Agreement.  
(3) Apprentice Wage Rate Schedule  
The Apprentice program consists of a 4000  
hour training cycle. The Apprentice wage rate for  
each period of the apprenticeship is expressed as a  
percentage of the skilled Construction Craft Laborer  
journeyworker rate specified in the collective bar-  
gaining agreement. The Employer may pay a higher  
rate at its option. However, the Apprentice must meet  
his or her commitments to the Joint Apprenticeship  
20  
Committee regardless of the level being paid.  
The schedule that follows provides for four  
equal periods of approximately | ,000 hours of work  
and training each:  
First period at 60% of the lowest joumeyworker rate  
Second period at 70% of the lowest journeyworker rate  
Third period at 80% of the lowest journeyworker rate  
Fourth period at 90% of the lowest journeyworker rate  
(4) Apprentice Fringe Benefit Schedule  
The employer shall contribute to all of the ben-  
efit funds provided for under this agreement with  
the exception of the Defined Contribution Fund and  
the Vacation Fund. However, the Employer may con-  
tribute to the full compliment of fringe benefit funds  
established under this agreement.  
(5) Entry into the apprenticeship program shall  
be controlled by the JATC, which shail employ ap-  
propriate testing and screening procedures. An Ap-  
prentice advances from one hours-of-credit and  
wage-rate category to another only upon determina-  
tion of satisfactory performance by the JATC.  
(6) The Employer shall participate in the ap-  
prenticeship program by accepting apprentices for  
employment upon referral by the Union. The Em-  
ployer is not obligated to accept more than one (1}  
Apprentice for every three (3) Journey Workers.  
(7) An Apprentice should, whenever possible  
2]  
be rotated by the Employer through different types  
of work so as to become trained in a variety of opera-  
tions and work skills. Where the Employer is unable  
to provide an Apprentice with experience in the full  
range of craft skills, the JATC may request the Local  
Union to reassign the Apprentice to other employ-  
ment in order to provide that experience. For so long  
as the Employer is able to provide the necessary  
range of employment experience, the Employer may  
choose to retain the apprentice from job to job but  
shall notify the Local Union and JATC of all  
signments.  
(8) An Apprentice shall not work on the jobsite  
unless supervised by a Journey worker.  
(9) An Apprentice shall not be penalized for  
taking off from work to attend offsite training (though  
time off for training is unpaid).  
5B. Maintenance of a Drug Free Workplace  
lt is the intention of the parties to this agree-  
ment to provide a drug free workplace and to estab-  
lish guidelines to accomplish it, which may include  
pre-hire testing and post accident testing, along with  
other provisions that would be mutually agreed upon  
by both Union and Management, details of which  
will be established by a joint committee of Union and  
22  
   
Management. It is understood that the provisions  
outlined by this Article and the procedures estab-  
lished by the Committee are applicable only insofar  
as they are legally determined to be a proper matter  
for collective bargaining.  
6. Union Security  
Employees of the Employer who are members  
of the Union in good standing on the execution date  
of this Agreement shall remain members in good  
standing as a condition of employment. Those who  
are not members on the execution date shal! apply to  
become members seven days following the execu-  
tion date. All employees covered by this Agreement  
hired on or after the execution date shall apply to  
become members of the union seven days following  
the beginning of their employment or the execution  
date, whichever is later, and shall remain members as  
a condition of employment. Ail working foremen  
shall be or become members of the Union in accor-  
dance with this Article.  
7. Pre-Job Conference  
In order to minimize site problems, a pre-job  
conference will be held between the Employer and  
the Union on projects where the job cost is $1,000,000  
2a  
    
or more. The Employer shall give notice to the Union  
of such job and the parties shal] agree to a mutually  
acceptable time and place for the pre-job conference.  
8& Unemployment Compensation  
The Employer shall immediately, upon the com-  
mencement of a job, elect to become covered under  
the terms of New Jersey Revised Statutes (c)  
(Unemployment Compensation Coverage Laws).  
The Employer will immediately obtain the necessary  
forms for electing to cover his workers represented  
by the Union under the terms of the aforesaid Act.  
The Union will provide the consent of its members  
who are employees of the Employer. Failure to so  
elect and comply under the above revised statute  
shall constitute a breach of the contract and the  
Union will reserve the right to withdraw its members  
from employment upon the occurrence of the breach.  
9. Job Stewards  
The Union shall select a Job Steward for each  
particular job from any source and he shall be the  
last man laid offat the particular job. In the event the  
Steward is selected from a source other than the  
Employer’s work complement he shall be a working  
employee who shall be competent to perform labor-  
ers’ work.  
24  
The Employer recognizes the right of the  
Union to appoint one of its members to act as Job  
Steward in all instances where laborers are employed  
regardless of how many jobs an Employer may have.  
The Job Steward shall see that the provisions  
of this Agreement are being complied with and shall  
try to adjust minor disputes. He shall be given suffi-  
cient time to perform his duties and shall not be dis-  
criminated against for doing so. He shall make out  
weekly steward reports to his Local Union, and shall  
report all grievances to the Business Representa-  
tive.  
To carry out these duties the Job Steward is to  
be on the job at all times when any laborers are work-  
ing or laborers’ work is being done, including over-  
time, and until the job is completed. He shail be the  
last laborer on the job, unless he is not competent in  
the performance of his assigned work. In such event,  
he shall be replaced by another laborer appointed by  
the Business Representative.  
The Business Manager reserves the right to  
remove the Job Steward at any time he sees fit, for  
the good of the Union. The Job Steward may not be  
laid off without notification to the Business  
Manager.  
25  
10. Union Visitation Rights  
The Union’s representative shall be allowed  
to visit the job sites during working hours to confer  
with representatives of the Employer and workmen,  
but they shall not interfere with or hinder the  
progress of the work.  
il. Picket Line  
{t shall not be a violation of this Agreement,  
and it shall not be a cause for discharge or disciplin-  
ary action in the event an employee refuses to enter  
upon any property involved ina lawful primary labor  
dispute, or refuses to go through or work behind  
any lawful primary picket line, including the lawful  
primary picket line of Unions party to this Agree-  
ment, and including lawful primary picket lines at the  
Employer’s place of business.  
It shall not be a violation of this Agreement and  
it shall not be a cause for discharge or disciplinary  
action if any employee refuses to perform any ser-  
vice which his employer undertakes to perform as an  
ally of an Employer or person whose employees are  
on strike and which service, but for such strike,  
would be performed by the employees of the Em-  
ployer or person on strike.  
The foregoing shall be operative only to the  
26  
extent permitted by law. Nothing therein contained  
is intended to be a contract or agreement, expressed  
or implied, which in any manner violates any federal  
or state law as presently enacted or as amended or  
interpreted during the term of this Agreement.  
In any event, however, to the extent that this  
Article shall be determined by a court or agency of  
competent jurisdiction in any manner to violate fed-  
eral or state law as presently enacted or as amended  
or during the term of this Agreement, this  
Article shall be inoperative and void.  
### 12, Work Performance  
The Employer shall be sole judge as to work  
performed and whether or not the work is performed  
satisfactorily by the workmen. The Employer shall  
have the right to discharge any unsatisfactory work-  
men, regardless of classification.  
13. Featherbedding  
Neither the Union nor any agent, representa-  
tive, or member shall insist that the jobs be over-  
manned and the Employer shall be sole judge of the  
job requirements.  
7  
   
   
14, Subcontractors  
a} A subcontractor is defined as any person,  
firm or corporation who agrees with any Employer,  
or with a subcontractor of an Employer, to perform  
any part or portion of the work covered by this Agree-  
ment or the Manual of Jurisdiction.  
b) It being the intention of the parties hereto  
to protect the working conditions and standards es-  
tablished by the parties hereto under this Agree-  
ment, and to preserve the job and work opportuni-  
ties of the employees covered by this Agreement, if  
an Employer bound by this Agreement contracts or  
subcontracts any work covered by this Agreement  
to be done at the site of construction to any subcon-  
tractor who is not signatory to the Agreement, the  
Employer shal} require such subcontractor to be  
bound to an Agreement with the Union for the dura-  
tion of his project only. Such subcontractor shall  
adhere strictly to the economic standards (1.e., wages,  
hours, fringe benefit contributions and working con-  
ditions) contained in his Agreement.  
¢} The Employer will give written notice to the  
Union of any subcontract involving the performance  
of work covered by this Agreement within five (5)  
business days of entering into such subcontract and  
Shall specify the name and address of the subcon-  
tractor,  
28  
|  
   
d) If any subcontractor shall become delin-  
quent in the payment or meeting of the obligations  
set forth above, the Union shall give written notice  
thereof to the Employer and subcontractor specify-  
ing the nature and amount of such delinquencies.  
More than one such notice may be given with re-  
spect to delinquencies.  
e) Inthe event the Employer violates any con-  
ditions of this Article the violations shall be consid-  
ered a grievance and may be submitted to arbitration  
in accordance with the grievance and arbitration pro-  
vision of the Agreement for appropriate relief under  
Article 4.  
### 15. Safety Codes  
The Employer agrees to abide by the Safety  
Codes, and rules and regulations of the Safety Codes  
of the State of New Jersey and the Federal Govern-  
ment. Any injury to an employee resulting from the  
Employer’s failure to comply with any state or fed-  
era! law or regulation or municipal ordinance relating  
to requirements on any job for the safety and protec-  
tion of the employees shall be the sole responsibility  
of said Employer.  
16. Work and Protective Clothing  
The Employer is to furnish suitable working  
29  
   
clothes for rainy weather, provide sanitary rain gear  
before it is transferred to another employee, and pro-  
vide sanitary water containers on the job with ice  
and cups when climatic conditions require.  
The Employer shall also provide appropriate  
gear and clothing to employees during any inclem-  
ent weather or as the circumstances may warrant.  
Appropriate cleanup and dress up accommodations  
shall be provided for employees covered under this  
Agreement unless the job is spread out or of short  
duration. Additional sets of such gear and clothing  
shall be provided upon return of the set originally  
issued.  
17, Grievance and Arbitration Procedure  
Any dispute concerning the interpretation,  
construction or application of this Agreement, in-  
cluding disputes involving the discharge, termina-  
tion or discipline of any employee, shall be consid-  
ered a grievance. The Employer and the Union first  
shall attempt to informally resolve any such griev-  
ance by a Jomnt Committee, if requested by either  
party. The Joint Committee shall consist of two Union  
representatives and two Employer representatives.  
Failing amicable adjustment, either party may submit  
the grievance to the New Jersey State Board of Me-  
diation for final and binding arbitration. Only the  
30  
   
Union and the Employer shall have the right to sub-  
mit a grievance to arbitration.  
Should a grievance arise on the designation of  
a Job Steward, the Union shall have the right to pur-  
sue arbitration expeditiously.  
The arbitrator shall have the right to order any  
appropriate remedy for any losses incurred by any  
laborer, Fund, Union or Employer for violation of  
this Agreement. However, anything to the contrary  
in the Agreement notwithstanding, only the Union,  
the Fund’s Trustees or the Employer shall have the  
right to submit any grievance to arbitration. Any  
dispute in connection with the substantive or proce-  
dural arbitrability of a matter shall be resolved by the  
arbitrator.  
Except as provided for in Article 38, in order to  
encourage the amicable and informal resolution of  
grievances and discourage the parties from process-  
ing grievances to arbitration, the losing party shall  
pay all arbitration costs and reasonable counsel fees  
unless the Union and the Employer mutually agree  
otherwise. The aforesaid costs and fees are to be  
established by the arbitrator. In the event there is  
more than one grievance presented in arbitration,  
and one party does not prevail as to all grievances,  
the arbitrator shall apportion costs and fees in his  
discretion.  
31  
It is hereby agreed and understood that until  
final decision has been rendered as above provided  
there shall be no lockouts of any sort by the Em-  
ployer nor shall there be any strike or stoppage of  
work of any sort by the Union or their members,  
except for reasons specifically set forth in other pro-  
visions of this Agreement, and all grievances or com-  
plaints of any sort that may arise from either party  
over the interpretation or application of the terms of  
this Agreement are to be submitted as hereinabove  
set forth.  
[t is agreed that if the Employer fails to pay  
wages as agreed upon herein, or fails to comply with  
the provisions of Article 5 or 14 of this Agreement, or  
fails to pay holiday time, or to submit reports and  
proper contributions to the Welfare, Pension, the  
Safety, Education, and Training, Defined Contribu-  
tion, Vacation, L.E.C.E.T., N.J.S.L.H.& S.T.F, or In-  
dustry Advancement Funds, as required herein or  
fails to require employees to maintain Union secu-  
rity, as provided herein, or fails or refuses to allow an  
inspection of payroll, employment and related records  
of employees as permitted by Articles 33 and 34 of  
the Agreement, then any such failure shall be deemed  
an “open breach” of this Agreement, not requiring  
arbitration and the Union shall have the right to picket  
32  
or to call a strike or work stoppage until the “breach”  
is corrected.  
In the event the Union conducts a work stop-  
page for any of the reasons permitted by the Article,  
the Employer shall reimburse employees for all wages  
and fringe benefits lost as a result of the work stop-  
page for the first day of the stoppage. In the event  
the stoppage continues beyond one day, the  
Employer’s liability shail be limited to one day’s pay.  
In the event the employees return to work, but the  
Employer nevertheless fails to cure the violation, the  
Employer shall again be liable for the wages and ben-  
efits lost on the first day of the stoppage and of each  
successive stoppage.  
33  
re  
18. Wages  
It is agreed that the classification of work, rates, payments and wages shall  
be in accordance with the following terms and conditions. No employee shall  
suffer any decrease in rates received on February 29, 2004.  
Local 472 & 172 Wage and Fringe Benefit Rates  
Wages 3/1/2004 3/1/2005 3/1/2006  
Basie nn 24.30 24.95 25,75  
Job Steward/Basic laborer 24.70 25,35 26.15  
Wagon Drill Helpers, Other Helpers, Raker & Screedman... 24.50 = 25.45 25.95  
Pipe Layer And Power Tool Operator 24.80 25.45 26.25  
Wagon Drill Operator, Drill Master, Timberman 25.00 25.65 26,45  
Finisher, Manhole/Inlet Builder, Form Setter 25.25 25.90 26.70  
28.80 29.45 30.25  
Certified Hazardous Waste Laborer ((B) 27.30 27.95 28.75  
Certified Hazardous Waste Laborer (C ) 25.30 25.95 26.75  
General ma 26.80 27.45 28.25  
Labor Foreman And Asphalt Foreman 25.80 26.45 27.23  
Drill Foreman 26.05 26.70 27.50  
Grade Foreman And Pipe Foreman 26.25 26.90 27.70  
Finisher Foreman And Concrete Foreman 26.75 27.40 28.20  
Watchman ( G) 408.00 408.00 408.00  
st  
Local 472 & 172 Wage and Fringe Benefit Rates Cont’d  
Fringe Benefits 3/1/2004 3/1/2005 3/1/2006  
Health And Welfare 7S 6.25 7.00  
PRESTON ccc coves: DBS 3.00 3.10  
Defined Contribution Fi und .. {ASE SI UES TERESA ENE me 3.50 3.75 3.75  
Vacation Fund... — 1.95 2.00  
Safety, Education & Training FUNG 40 45 50  
CLAP... ves AS ald AS  
Local 472 Dues Supplement (2)... 2.5% Of Gross Wages  
Local 172 Dues Supplement (0) 3.5% Of Gross Wages  
LIUNA Health And Safety Fund OF O05 .O5  
### LIUNA L. EL COED FUndd AS 20 20  
NFS J) LO 10 10  
L.E.R.OLF. (Q) 20 20 25  
### NOTES  
fa) fn all other classifications, Job Steward To Receive § .40 Over Reguiar Hourly Rate for classification.  
(aa}Traffic Coordinators shail receive an additional $3.50 per hour over their regulor rate of pay.  
(6} Hazardous Waste Removal Wark in Level A, B. or C. personal protection, hourly wage rate In classification above basic  
faborer, regular hourly rate plus $ 3.00 Per Hour. (see Article 284).  
{c) Hazardous Waste Removal Work A, 8, ©, or Level D personal protection is not required, hourly woge rate in classifi-  
cations above basic laborer, regular hourly rate plus $1.00 per hour {see Article 28A, Level D language).  
fd) Warchman pension and hospitalization contribution ix $ 2.00 per hour fsee Article 27).  
fe) Dues Supplement io be deducted from employee wages (xee Article 20 for aut-of-territory rules).  
() NISLPAC to be deducted from employee wages (see Article 2(A).  
@) LEROF tea be deducted from employee wages (see Article 20A).  
   
Local 472 Wage Rates Keyed to Classifications*  
### BASIC LABORER  
Common laborers, landscape laborers, railroad  
track laborers, utility meter installer, flagmen, traffic  
directors, traffic control coordinator, salamander ten-  
ders, pitmen, dumpmen, asphalt laborer, slurry seal  
laborer, rakers and tampers on cold patch work, wrap-  
pers and coaters of pipe and waterproofers.  
### WAGON DRILLAND OTHER HELPERS  
Wagon drill operator helper, drill master helper,  
powder carrier, magazine tender, signal men, asphalt  
raker, and asphalt screedman.  
### PIPE LAYER-POWER TOOL OPERATOR  
Sewer pipe, laser man, conduit and duct line layer,  
power tool operator, jack hammer, chipping hammer,  
pavement breaker, power buggy, concrete cutter, as-  
phalt cutter, sheet hammer, tree cutter operator,  
sandblaster, cutting, burning, and such other power  
tools used to perform work usually done manually  
by laborers.  
### WAGON DRILL OPERATOR, DRILL MASTER, DI-  
### RECTIONAL DRILL OPERATOR, TIMBERMAN  
Timberman, wagon drill operators, directional  
36  
drill operator, and dril! masters.  
### FINISHER, MANHOLE/INLET BUILDER, FORM  
### SETTER  
Finishers, manhole, catch basin or inlet build-  
ers, form setters, rammers, the setters of brick or stone  
pavers, gunite nozzlemen, and stone cutters.  
### BLASTERS  
All blasters.  
   
### LABOR FOREMEN  
All labor foremen, and asphalt foremen.  
### PIPE FOREMAN/GRADE FOREMAN  
All pipe foremen and grade foremen.  
### GENERAL FOREMEN  
General foreman,  
### FINISHER FOREMAN, CONCRETE FOREMAN  
Finisher foreman and concrete foreman.  
### DRILL FOREMAN  
Dril! Foreman.  
ai  
*[n Atlantic, Burlington, Camden, Cape May,  
Cumberland, Gloucester, Mercer, Monmouth, Ocean,  
Salem and the Southern half of Middlesex County  
asphalt work shall fall under the Laborers’ Local 172  
Asphalt Workers Agreement with the Associated  
General Contractors and the Construction Contrac-  
tors Labor Employers of New Jersey.  
Local 172 Wage Rates Keyed to Classifications*  
### BASIC LABORER  
Common laborers, landscape laborers, railroad  
track laborers, utility meter installer, flagmen, traffic  
directors, traffic control coordinator, salamander ten-  
ders, pitmen, dumpmen, rakers and tampers on cold  
patch work, wrappers and coaters of pipe and  
waterproofers.  
### WAGON DRILLAND OTHER HELPERS  
Wagon drill operator helper, drill master helper,  
powder carrier, magazine tender, signal men.  
### PIPE LAYER-POWER TOOL OPERATOR  
Sewer pipe, laser man, conduit and duct line  
layer, power tool operator, jack hammer, chipping ham-  
mer, pavement breaker, power buggy, concrete cut-  
38  
ter, asphalt cutter, sheet hammer, tree cutter operator,  
sandblaster, cutting, burning, and such other power  
tools used to perform work usually done manually  
by laborers.  
### WAGON DRILL OPERATOR, DRILL MASTER, DI-  
### RECTIONAL DRILL OPERATOR, TIMBERMAN  
Timberman, wagon drill operators, directional  
drill operator, and drill masters.  
### FINISHER, MANHOLE/INLET BUILDER, FORM  
### SETTER  
Finishers, manhole, catch basin or inlet build-  
ers, form setters, rammers, the setter of brick or stone  
pavers, gunite nozzlemen, and stone cutters.  
### BLASTERS  
All blasters.  
### LABOR FOREMAN  
All labor foremen and asphalt foremen.  
### PIPE FOREMAN/GRADE FOREMAN  
All pipe foremen and grade foremen.  
### GENERAL FOREMEN  
General foreman.  
39  
### FINISHER FOREMAN, CONCRETE FOREMAN  
Finisher foreman and concrete foreman.  
### DRILL FOREMAN  
Drill Foreman.  
*in Atlantic, Burlington, Camden, Cape May,  
Cumberland, Gloucester, Mercer, Monmouth, Ocean,  
Salem and the Southern half of Middlesex County  
asphalt work shall fall under the Laborers’ Local 172  
Asphalt Workers Agreement with the Associated  
General Contractors and the Construction Contrac-  
tors Labor Employers of New Jersey.  
|  
|  
:  
40  
it  
Local 472 & 172 Free Air Tunnel Jobs  
Wages S/1/04 3/1/05  
Walking Bosses & Superintendent 27,05 27.70  
Heading Foremen, Shaft Foremen, Rod Forenien  
Electrician Foremen, Rigging 26.75 27.40  
Tron Foremen, Caulking Foremen, Form Foremen, Concrete  
Foremen, Grout Foremen, Cement Finishing Foremen,  
Clean-up Foremen, Track Foreman 26.25 26.90  
coms teens comes 28.75 29.40  
Top Labor Foremen 25.70 26.35  
Skilled Men (including Miners, Drill Runners, Iron Men, Maintenance Men,  
Conveyer Men, Safety Miners, Riggers, Block Layers, Cement Finishers,  
Rod Men, Caulkers, Powder Carriers, All Other Skilled Men)25.35 26.00  
Semi-Skilled Men (including Miners Helpers, Chuck Tenders, Track  
Men, Nippers, Brake Men, Derail Men, Cable Men, Hose Men,  
Grout Men, Gravel Men, Form Men, Pipelayers, Conduit installers,  
Bell or Signal Men (top or bottom), Form Workers and Movers,  
Concrete Workers, Shaft Men, Tunnel Laborers Caulkers' Helpers,  
All other Semi-Skilled Meni 25,20 25.85  
All Others (including Powder Watchmen,  
Change House Attendant, Top Laborers,Job Steward(d)).. 24.70 25.35  
a  
cay  
3/1/06  
28.50  
28.20  
27.70  
30.20  
27.15  
26.80  
26.65  
26.15  
   
cP  
Local 472 & 172 Wage and Fringe Benefit Rates Cont'd  
Fringe Benefits = = 3714/2006  
Health And WeYfQre 5.75 6.25 7.00  
2.85 3.00 3.70  
Defined Contribution Fund 3.50 3.75 3.75  
Vacation 1.85 {95 2.00  
Safety, Education & Training Fund .40 45 50  
HARA eh ne oA 25 #3 1S  
Local 472 Dues Supplement (0) 2.5% Of Gross Wages  
Local 172 Dues Supplement (0) 3.5% Of Gross Wages  
LIUNA Health And Safety .O5 OS  
LIUNA Lo EC. EL Fo 15 20 20  
NSS LPAI) 10 10 10  
LER OE, RD 20 20 25  
### NOTES  
(a) Dues Supplement to be deducted from employee wages (see Article 20 for out-of-territory rules).  
(6) NUSLPAC to be deducted from employee wages fsce Article 20A}.  
() so be deducted from employee wages {see Article 20A).  
(ad) Job Steward in all other classifications, Jab Steward to receive §.40 over hourly rate Jor classifications.  
19, Wage Payment Procedure  
All wages due under this Agreement shall be  
paid once each week during working hours in lawful  
United States Currency.  
Al! wages paid each week shall be paid on the  
same day of each week from week to week in order  
that employees covered by this Agreement have sta-  
bility in their wage payments.  
The Employer may pay by check provided he  
makes payment on or before Thursday of each week  
and provided he takes reasonabie and appropriate  
efforts whereby the employee can cash his check.  
The check stub shall include employee’s name, social  
security number, hourly rate of pay, hours worked, the  
name of company and the date of check.  
It shall be each employee’s responsibility to  
promptly report any violation of this Agreement to his  
respective Union. Where such violation involves an  
Employer’s failure to pay an employee the applicable  
wage rate provided for under this Agreement, the em-  
ployee shall report that failure to said Union within  
twenty-one (21) days of the violation. The failure of  
the Union to file a grievance within twenty-one (21)  
days is not to be construed as a waiver of the Union’s  
right to process grievances involving the Employer’s  
failure to pay the applicable wage rate.  
43  
   
26. Union Dues Supplement  
a) The Union membership of Local 472 has  
approved a dues supplement of 2 1/2 % of each  
mermber’s gross pay. The Employer shall deduct the  
dues supplement in the amount approved from each  
employee’s wages covered by this Agreement pro-  
vided that such employee executes 4 check-off au-  
thorization form permitting such deduction.  
b) The Union membership of Local 172 has -  
approved a dues supplement of 3 1/2 % of each  
member’s gross pay. The Employer shal! deduct the  
dues supplement in the amount approved from each  
employees wages covered by this Agreement pro-  
vided that such employee executes a check-off au-  
thorization form permitting such deduction.  
c) Whenever a member of Local 472 is em-  
ployed by an Employer within the territorial jurisdic-  
tion of Local 172, the Employer shall deduct from the  
employee’s wages the stated dues supplement. The  
Employer shall remit said dues supplement to Local  
172 in accordance with paragraph (e) below. No dues  
supplement shall be remitted to Local 472 in such  
cases.  
d) Whenever a member of Local 172 is em-  
ployed by an Employer within the territorial jurisdic-  
44  
tion of Local 472, the Employer shall deduct from the  
employee’s wages the 3 4% dues supplement. The  
Employer shall remit said dues supplement to Local  
472 in accordance with paragraph (e) below. No dues  
supplement shall be remitted to Local 172 in such  
cases,  
e) The Employer shall remit all sums which are  
required to be deducted pursuant to this Article to  
the appropriate union or, at the union’s option, to  
the Administrator of the several benefit funds cre-  
ated or maintained by this Agreement on a weekly  
basis in accordance with procedures established or  
to be established by the Administrator for the collec-  
tion and distribution thereof.  
LUA. Deductions  
a) The Union membership of Local 472 and  
Local 172 has approved a ten cents ($.10) per hour  
deduction from wages, for remittance by the Em-  
ployer to the New Jersey State Laborers’ Political  
Action Committee (NJSLPAC) and effective March  
1, 2004 twenty cents ($.20) per hour deduction from  
wages, and that will increase to twenty-five cents  
($.25) per hour effective March |, 2006, for remit-  
tance by the Employer to the Laborers Eastern Re-  
gion Organizing Fund (L.E.R.O.F.). The Employer  
45  
   
shall deduct the said contribution from the wages of  
each employee who is a member of Local 472 or 172  
provided that the employee executes a check-off au-  
thorization form permitting such deduction.  
b) These sums shall be paid to the Adminis-  
trator of the Local 472 & 172 benefit funds estab-  
lished herein. Said sums shall be paid to the Admin-  
istrator at the same time and together with other con-  
tributions made by the Employer to and for said ben-  
efit Funds. The Administrator shall then pay the  
amounts due to the NJSLPAC and L.E.R.O.F.unless  
otherwise directed by the Union.  
c) At any time during the term of this Agree-  
ment Local 472 or 172, may terminate their participa-  
tion in the NJSLPAC and or L.E.R.O.F. and terminate  
the obligation of the Employer to contribute thereto.  
In the alternative, Local 472 or 172 may determine  
that said contribution shall be paid, in lieu of  
NJSLPAC, to the political action committee of either  
Union and in the alternative to L.E.R.O.F. said conitri-  
bution shall be redirected at the discretion of the  
Union. Appropriate notice shall be given to the Em-  
ployer and the Associations and the Employers and  
Associations shall comply therewith.  
46  
21, Hours of Work  
Eight (8) hours shall constitute a working day,  
to be paid at the rate specified in this contract. All  
time worked in excess of eight hours shall be paid at  
the rate of time and one-half the applicable rate. All  
work performed on Saturdays shail be paid at the  
rate of time and one-half and all work performed on  
Sundays or Holidays shall be paid at the rate of  
double-time. Workers may work 4 ten hour days,  
Monday through Thursday at straight time pay. Fri-  
day shall be used as a make up day for days lost due  
to inclement weather or for other mutually agreed  
reason. If Friday is not a makeup day ail hours  
worked on Friday shall be paid at time and one-half.  
Notwithstanding the above, where an Owner  
mandates in the construction contract a standard  
work shift which begins before midnight and ends  
after midnight and where the shift under such man-  
dated work week begins on a Friday and ends on  
Saturday morning, then in such cases the shift dif-  
ferential shall apply. Where a mandated shift of the  
mandated work week starts at or after 8:00 PM ona  
Sunday and ends on Monday morning, the shift dif-  
ferential shall apply.  
Any work begun on a Holiday and finishing  
the following day shall be paid at double-time. All  
47  
   
emergency work commencing ona Sunday and run-  
ning into Monday morning shall be paid at the rate  
of double time.  
22. Partial Day Pay  
a) All employees ordered to report for work  
and who do not start work shall be guaranteed and  
paid no less than two (2) hours pay at straight time.  
In the event any employee works but works less  
than four (4) hours, he shal! be paid and guaranteed  
four (4) hours pay at straight time. In the event any  
employee works more than four (4) hours but com-  
pletes his work before the customary lunch period  
he shall be paid and guaranteed six (6) hours at  
straight time. In the event any employee works after  
the customary lunch period but less than eight (8)  
hours, he shall be paid and guaranteed eight (8) hours  
pay at straight time.  
b) Allemployees reporting for work as required  
by the Employer shall be paid not less than two (2)  
hours’ straight time in accordance with Section a)  
above provided he reports to the Foreman or Time-  
keeper on the job and he shall remain available at the  
job site for two (2) hours. It is understood that if the  
Employer notifies the employee before the custom-  
ary time for reporting for work not to report and the  
48  
employee ignores this notification and shows up on  
the job, he is not to be paid.  
23. Foremen  
All foremen who report for work shall be guar-  
anteed and paid eight (8) hours pay at straight time  
unless ordered not to work prior to reporting.  
24. Shifts  
a) Bi-State Tunnel Shift Work  
On all tunnel work covered by this Agreement  
performed for any bi-state facilities, time and one-  
half shall be paid on the second and third shifts and  
any shifts starting other than between 7:00 AM and  
8:00 AM.  
b) All other Shift Work  
Payment for all other shift work shall be made  
as follows:  
1. On the second and third shifts for all high-  
way, bridge, tunnel and other construction work cov-  
ered by this Agreement, or where the owner man-  
dates special hours of work in the job specifications,  
a shift differential of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50)  
per hour shali be paid in addition to the regular rate  
of pay. The combined regular rate and any shift dif-  
ferential, as calculated and determined, will be in-  
49  
corporated as the rate and basis for all wage pay-  
ments including overtime, premium time and all Holi-  
day pay.  
2. On all other shifts whatsoever, where the  
starting time is other than 7:00 AM, 8:00 AM, 3:00PM,  
4:00PM, 12:00AM and 1:00AM, time and one-half  
shall be paid.  
Any special shift concerns or conditions shall  
be discussed at a pre bid conference.  
24A. Work at Nuclear Plants  
All laborers covered by this Agreement who  
are employed at a Nuclear Power Plant site, when  
working overtime and at the same time directly with  
crafts who received double time for said overtime,  
shall be paid double time for overtime, otherwise time  
and one-half shall prevail on above work.  
25. Lunch  
It is mutually agreed that the employee ts to be  
given his usual half-hour lunch break between the  
hours of 12:00 Noon and 1:00 P.M. and if the em-  
ployee is not allowed to take a lunch break at the  
time specified, the employee is to be paid time and  
one-half for the missed one-half hour lunch break  
50  
and the employee must be permitted a one-half lunch  
break before the eight hour shift has concluded. Fur-  
ther, that if for any reason the Employer concludes  
the eight hour shift and has not provided the em-  
ployee with any one-half hour Junch break, an addi-  
tional one-half hour of pay at the rate of trme and  
one-half shall be paid to the employee for a total of  
nine (9) hours pay.  
Whenever practical, and where conditions  
permit, the parties shall establish a specific Junch  
hour for laborers on the job prior to the commence-  
ment of the job.  
26.  
Where there is an addition of steel, helpers  
will be required on ail rock drills.  
27, Watchmen  
The Employer shall pay to watchmen a wage  
rate of $408.00 for each 56 hours worked per week.  
Watchmen’s rate shal! be $6.00 per hour. Saturday  
work shall be paid at the rate of $9.00 per hour. Sun-  
day work shall be paid at the rate of $12.00 per hour.  
The watchman shall be paid an additional day’s pay  
for each holiday worked.  
The Employer shall pay $2.00 per hour paid for  
51  
   
each watchman employed by the Employer to the  
Laborers’ Locals 472 and 172 Welfare and Pension  
Funds. Watchmen shalt not be eligible to participate  
in the Vacation Fund or the Defined Contribution  
Fund.  
28. New Work Classification  
If during the term of this Agreement, mecha-  
nized changes or changes in the method of opera-  
tion result in different or new types of work, the Em-  
ployer and the Unions agree to negotiate a new work  
classification and wage rates for such work.  
28A. Work at Hazardous Waste Sites  
On hazardous waste removal work of any kind,  
including a state or a federally designated site, where  
a laborer is required to wear level A, B, or C personal  
protection, the laborer shall receive an hourly wage  
rate of his regular hourly wage plus $3.00 per hour.  
A certified laborer working at a hazardous waste  
removal project or site at a task requiring hazardous  
waste related certification, but who is not working in  
a zone requiring level A, B, or C personal protection,  
shall receive an hourly wage rate of his regular rate  
plus $1.00 per hour. This shall also apply to 100%  
federally funded projects or sites where the level D  
52  
personal protection 1s required. If at anytime during  
the workday shift that a laborer must wear Level A,  
B, or C protection, the higher rate will prevail for all  
hours worked that shift notwithstanding the fact that  
only a portion of the shift may be spent in the higher  
zone. Inthe event the Employer requests a certified  
laborer with a hazardous waste certificate the Em-  
ployer shall pay the aforementioned differential, even  
if the project is considered to be a non-hazardous  
project.  
The Employers and Unions mutually agree that  
all hazardous waste jobs shall be conducted in a safe  
manner so as to protect the health and welfare of  
workers employed on such job sites. No laborer may  
be required to work at a site where it reasonably  
appears that proper safety procedures are not being  
followed. Determination of the level of protection to  
be worn shall be made by a qualified professional  
safety officer selected and employed by the Em-  
ployer who shall conservatively apply accepted 1n-  
dustry safety standards in the best interest of worker  
safety. In the event that the Unions employ a safety  
consultant to review job conditions, said safety con-  
sultant shall be given full access to all available safety  
information and full and complete access to the job  
site in the performance of his duties.  
Notwithstanding any of the above, the safety  
53  
and protection of employees working at any such  
site shall be the sole responsibility of the Employer.  
29. Higher Rate Classification  
If anew employee is sent to a job to work ina  
higher classification he shall receive the higher clas-  
sification rate for eight (8) hours notwithstanding  
the fact that, at the Employer’s request, he is as-  
signed work and works in a lower rate classification  
on a particular day.  
A Laborer working at any higher classification  
shall be paid no less than two (2) hours at the par-  
ticular rate and thereafter shail be paid one (1) hour  
for each portion of an hour worked.  
The minimum rate to be paid any trainee is the  
basic laborer’s rate provided for in this Agreement.  
30. Holidays Observed  
The following days are recognized holidays  
under this Agreement:  
New Year’s Day, President’s Day, Memorial  
Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Presidential Elec-  
tion Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day and  
Christmas Day.  
The Employer has the option to work  
day at straight time and take the Friday after Thanks-  
giving as a holiday.  
54  
31. Holiday Pay  
If any employee works on three (3) days for  
the same Employer within a period of ten (10) work-  
ing days consisting of five (5) working days before  
and five (5) working days after the day upon which  
the holiday falls or is observed as such, he shall be  
paid eight (8) hours straight time for the holiday at  
his regular rate of pay. Where a project is a four (4)  
day ten (10) hours per day project, holidays will be  
paid at eight (8) straight time hours for an unworked  
holiday unless the employee on the Employer’s pay-  
roll works less than 40 hours during the week upon  
which the holiday falls, in which case he shall be  
paid an additional two (2) hours straight time holi-  
day pay for that unworked holiday. A work week  
shall commence on Monday 12:01 AM and extend to  
12:00 midnight on the Sunday following. em-  
ployee is hired after a holiday, he shall not be paid  
for the holiday unless he was employed during the  
work week preceding the holiday.  
When a layoff occurs, for reasons other than  
job completion, on or after December 20th, each em-  
ployee so laid off shall receive one day’s pay in lieu  
of Christmas Holiday provided the employee was  
working on the job on December 10th. Where such  
employee starts again on or before January 6th, ex-  
2  
   
cluding a new project just beginning, such employee  
shall be paid a day’s pay in lieu of New Year’s Day  
Holiday.  
If an employee works on a holiday, or days  
celebrated as such, (including holidays falling on  
Sunday and celebrated on Monday) he shall be paid  
double time for all hours worked. If an employee  
works on a holiday which falls on Saturday, he shal!  
be paid double time and one half for all hours worked.  
If he does not work on Saturday and otherwise quali-  
fies for holiday pay he shall be paid straight time for  
the holiday, all time paid for holidays, whether worked  
or not, shall be paid for at the regular rate of pay for  
the particular job classification of each employee as  
provided for herein, provided the employee has com-  
plied with the conditions set forth in this Article. If  
an employee works at more than one job classifica-  
tion within the ten day period specified herein, he  
shall be paid his holiday pay at the higher classifica-  
tion rate.  
It is understood that where time and one-half  
or double time is specified in this Agreement for work  
performed on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays or dif-  
ferent shift times, this is overtime and not premium  
time for work performed on these days and the base  
rates for the computation of this time and one-half or  
double time is the hourly rate set forth in the Agree-  
56  
ment. It is further understood that there is to be no  
extra or premium time for hours worked in excess of  
eight (8) hours on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays,  
but this shall in no way affect the obligation to pay  
the time and one-half for any work on Saturdays and  
double time for Sundays, holidays or different shift  
time as specified in the Agreement.  
If the employee alleges that he was laid off by  
an Employer (exclusive of job termination) solely for  
the purpose of being denied holiday pay, his griev-  
ance shall be heard by an Arbitration Committee com-  
posed of two (2) Union representatives and two (2)  
representatives who are members of the Utility and  
Transportation Contractors Association of New Jer-  
sey. A decision by a majority of the Committee shall  
be binding on the Employer and employee as to  
whether he shall receive holiday pay. Where a deci-  
sion cannot be reached by a majority of the Commit-  
tee then an impartial Referee shall! be designated by  
the New Jersey State Board of Mediation whose de-  
cision shall be final and any costs shall be borne  
equally by the Employer and the Union.  
32. Employee Discharge Pay  
[fan employee is discharged, he shall be paid  
within an hour and if compelled to wait for his wages,  
57  
   
he shall be paid at regular time for such waiting time.  
Ifan employee is permanently laid off or termi-  
nated he shall receive one hour’s pay in addition to  
the time he actually worked provided he has worked  
for a period of two days or more.  
If an employee quits work of his own accord  
the Employer may require him to wait until the next  
regular pay day for his wages.  
33. Welfare Fund  
a) In accordance with the Agreement and Dec-  
laration of Trust dated July 1, 1950, as amended and  
supplemented, each Employer, whether or not a mem-  
ber of the Utility and Transportation Contractors  
Association of New Jersey, agrees to make payments  
upon a weekly basis in accordance with the rates  
and effective dates as set forth in Article 18 hereof  
for each employee covered by this Agreement, to  
the “Heavy and General Laborers’ Welfare Fund of  
New Jersey”, hereinafter called the Fund, established  
by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust (incor-  
porated by reference herein).  
b} When the employees work on holidays,  
fringe benefits will be paid for all hours worked.  
When employees do not work on the holiday and  
are paid eight (8) hours of holiday pay, fringe ben-  
58  
efits shall be paid on the eight (8) hours of holiday  
pay. These provisions shall also apply to days sub-  
stituted or switched for holidays such as the Friday  
after Thanksgiving.  
c) It 1s understood that, in accordance with  
said Agreement and Declaration of Trust:  
|. The purpose of the Fund is to provide and  
maintain group life and accident and health insur-  
ance and other welfare benefits for employees of the  
Employers who are parties to this Agreement and for  
employees of other Employers who have or hereaf-  
ter will have in effect similar Agreements, and for  
certain members of the families of such employees,  
for any of such insurance or any social insurance or  
benefits and under such rules and regulations as the  
Trustees of the Fund may determine. The term em-  
ployee as used herein shall mean all of the employ-  
ees covered by the Agreements pursuant to which  
their Employers pay monies to the Fund, or all of any  
class or classes thereof as determined by agreement  
between the Trustees and the Insurance Carrier or  
Carriers of the said insurance policy or policies, pro-  
vided, in either case, that such employees have met  
the requirements as to waiting periods, full time em-  
ployment and other provisions of eligibility for in-  
surance as agreed upon between the Trustees and  
such Insurance Carrier or Carriers.  
59  
2. The Fund is to be audited annually or more  
often by a public accountant and a statement of the  
results of such audit will, at all times, be available for  
inspection by interested persons at the principal of-  
fice of the Fund.  
3. The Fund is to be administered by five (5)  
Trustees designated as Employer Representatives  
and by five (5) Trustees designated as Employee  
Representatives, all of whom are hereinafter called  
the “Trustees,” and a provision is made for an impar-  
tial umpire in the event of a deadlock.  
d) The Employers will appoint the Trustees  
designated as Employer Representatives who will  
accept the Trusteeship as Employer Representatives.  
Such Employer Representatives shall, with their suc-  
cessors selected in the manner provided in said  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust, represent the  
Employers who are parties to this Agreement and  
the other aforesaid Employers in the administration  
of the Fund.  
e) The Union will appoint the Trustees desig-  
nated as Employee Representatives who will accept  
the Trusteeship as Employee Representatives. Such  
Employee Representatives shall, with their succes-  
sors selected in the manner provided in said Agree-  
ment and Declaration of Trust, represent the employ-  
ees in the administration of the Fund.  
60  
f) The Employers agree that the Trustees of  
the Fund shall have the right to require such reports  
by the Employers as are necessary to the fulfillment  
of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust and the  
contracts of insurance. The Trustees and any in-  
surer shall have the right to inspect, at all reasonable  
times, the employment, payroll and such other records  
of each Employer as are pertinent to questions of  
accuracy or comprehensiveness of the reports of  
the Employer.  
34, Pension Fund  
a) In accordance with an Agreement and Dec-  
laration of the Trust dated July 1, 1953, as amended  
and supplemented, each Employer, whether or not  
member of the Utility and Transportation Contrac-  
tors Association of New Jersey, agrees to make pay-  
ment, upon a weekly basis in accordance with the  
rates and effective dates as set forth in Article 18  
hereof for each employee covered by this Agree-  
ment to the “Heavy and General Laborers’ Local  
Unions 472 and 172 of New Jersey Pension Fund”,  
said Fund being established and administered in the  
manner provided for in said Agreement and Declara-  
tion of Trust executed between the parties and which  
is incorporated herein by reference.  
61  
   
b) When the employees work on holidays,  
fringe benefits will be paid for all hours worked.  
When employees do not work on the holiday and  
are paid eight (8) hours of holiday pay, fringe ben-  
efits shall be paid on the eight (8) hours of holiday  
pay. These provisions shall also apply to days sub-  
stituted or switched for holidays such as the Friday  
after Thanksgiving.  
c) It is understood that in accordance with  
the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust executed  
between the parties:  
|. The purpose of the Fund is to provide and  
maintain a system of granting pensions to employ-  
ees of the Employers who are parties to this Agree-  
ment and for employees of other Employers who have,  
or hereafter will have in effect similar Agreements,  
and for certain members of the families of such em-  
ployees receiving such pensions, the manner and  
procedure of which shall be determined by the Trust-  
ees designated to administer the Fund and under  
such rules and regulations as they may determine.  
The term “employees” as used herein shall mean all  
the employees covered by the Agreements pursuant  
to which their Employers pay monies to the Fund, or  
all of any class or classes thereof as shall be deter-  
mined by the Trustees, pursuant to said Agreement  
62  
and Declaration of Trust, provided, in every case,  
that such employees or members of their families  
upon death of such employees shall have met their  
requirements and shall otherwise be eligible under  
the rules and regulations established by the Trust-  
ees of such Fund.  
2. The Fund is to be audited annually or more  
often by a public accountant and a statement of the  
results of such audit will, at all times, be available for  
inspection by interested persons at the principal of-  
fice of the Fund.  
3. The Fund shall be administered by five (5)  
Trustees designated as Employer Representatives  
and by five (5) Trustees designated as Employee  
Representatives, all of whom are hereinafter called  
the ‘‘Trustees” and a provision is made for an impar-  
tial umpire in the event of a deadlock.  
d) The Union shall be considered an Employer  
solely and exclusively for the purpose of permitting  
the Union to contribute to the Welfare and Pension  
Funds on behalf of its employees and to permit such  
employees to become participants of the said Wel-  
fare and Pension plans, but the Union, by virtue of  
this provision, shall not be considered as an Em-  
ployer for the purpose of selecting a representative  
as a Trustee on the Welfare or Pension Plan. The  
63  
Employers will appoint the Trustees designated as  
Employer Representatives, who will accept the Trust-  
eeship as Employer Representatives.  
Such Employer Representatives shall, with  
their successors, selected in the manner provided in  
said Agreement and Declaration of Trust, represent  
the Employers who are parties to this Agreement  
and the other aforesaid Employers in the administra-  
tion of the Fund.  
The Unions will appoint the Trustees desig-  
nated as Employees’ Representatives, by the same  
procedure, who will accept the Trusteeship as Em-  
ployees’ Representatives. Such Employee’s Repre-  
sentatives shall, with their successors selected in  
the manner provided in said Agreement and Declara-  
tion of Trust, represent the employees in the admin-  
istration of the Fund.  
e) Employees, in order to qualify or partici-  
pate in the Pension and Welfare Plan, must comply  
with all terms of this Collective Bargaining Agree-  
ment governing their terms and conditions of em-  
ployment and fulfill the requirements and rules of  
eligibility fixed or to be fixed by the Trustees of the  
respective Funds.  
Any employee qualifying to participate in the  
benefits provided for and purchased by the Funds,  
who shall cease to qualify for the lack of Employer  
64  
contributions or for any other reason whatsoever,  
his rights and his dependent’s rights to share in any  
benefit whatsoever purchased and provided for by  
the Funds shall forthwith terminate.  
f) The Employers agree that the Trustees of  
the Fund shall have the right to require such reports  
by the Employers as are necessary to the fulfillment  
of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust and the  
contracts of insurance. The Trustees and insurer  
shall also have the right to inspect, at all reasonable  
times, the payroll, employment and such other records  
of each Employer as are pertinent to questions of  
accuracy or comprehensiveness of the reports  
of the Employer.  
35. Safety, Education, and Training F und  
The Safety, Education, and Training Fund, pre-  
viously established by the parties, shal] remain in  
full force and effect. Contributions to the said Fund  
are to be made in accordance with the schedule es-  
tablished in Article 18 of this Agreement.  
When the employees work on holidays, fringe  
benefits will be paid for all hours worked. When  
employees do not work on the holiday and are paid  
eight (8) hours of holiday pay, fringe benefits shall  
be paid on the eight (8) hours of holiday pay. These  
65  
provisions shall also apply to days substituted or  
switched for holidays such as the Friday after  
Thanksgiving.  
35A. Group Legal Services Fund  
The Group Legal Services Fund, previously  
established by the parties, shall remain in full force  
and effect.  
35B. Defined Contribution Fund  
The Defined Contribution Fund, previously  
established by the parties, shall remain in full force  
and effect. Contributions to the said Fund are to be  
made in accordance with the schedule established in  
Article 18 of this Agreement.  
When the employees work on holidays, fringe  
benefits will be paid for all hours worked. When  
employees do not work on the holiday and are paid  
eight (8) hours of holiday pay, fringe benefits shal!  
be paid on the eight (8) hours of holiday pay. These  
provisions shall also apply to days substituted or  
switched for holidays such as the Friday after  
Thanksgiving.  
35C. Vacation Fund  
The Employer shall contribute to a Vacation  
66  
Fund, previously established, for each hour worked  
by each employee covered by this Agreement as  
required by the schedule of contributions to the Va-  
cation Fund set forth at Article 18 hereof. The Vaca-  
tion Fund shall be set up to reflect individual em-  
ployee accounts and is to be administered through  
the Heavy and General Construction Laborers Local  
472 and 172 Welfare Fund. Appropriate payroll taxes  
on the Vacation Fund contributions are to be de-  
ducted at the source in the following manner: the  
Vacation Fund contribution shall be added to the  
gross pay and all appropriate payroll taxes, includ-  
ing withholding Social Security and state unemploy-  
ment, deducted from gross pay. After making the  
necessary payroll deductions, the full contribution  
specified in the schedule at Article 18 hereof shall be  
forwarded to the Fund’s offices with the other ben-  
efit fund contributions.  
When the employees work on holidays, fringe  
benefits will be paid for all hours worked. When  
employees do not work on the holiday and are paid  
eight (8) hours of holiday pay, fringe benefits shall  
be paid on the eight (8) hours of holiday pay. These  
provisions shall also apply to days substituted or  
switched for holidays such as the Friday after  
Thanksgiving.  
67  
35D. N.J. State Laborers’ Health and Safety Trust  
Fund  
The parties agree to participate in and contrib-  
ute to the N.J. State Laborers’ Health and Safety Trust  
Fund (hereinafter called N.J.S.L.H & S.T.F.) in accor-  
dance with the schedule of contributions set forth in  
Article 18 hereof. Said contribution shall be paid to  
the Administrator of the Welfare Fund together with  
other contributions due under this Agreement and  
distributed to the N.J.S.L.H.& S.T.F. when and as  
required. In the alternative, Local 472 and/or Local  
172 may determine that said contribution collected  
on behalf of their union’s members shail not be paid  
to N.J.S.L.H. & S.T.F. and instead be reallocated to  
another benefit fund maintained under this Agree-  
ment as they deem appropriate. All Employers sig-  
natory to this Agreement, whether or not members  
of the A.GC. or U.T.C.A., shall be bound by the par-  
ties’ decision to terminate participation and/or real-  
locate the contribution as herein provided.  
When the employees work on holidays, fringe  
benefits will be paid for all hours worked. When  
employees do not work on the holiday and are paid  
eight (8) hours of holiday pay, fringe benefits shall  
be paid on the eight (8) hours of holiday pay. These  
68  
provisions shall also apply to days substituted or  
switched for holidays such as the Friday after  
Thanksgiving.  
35E. N.J. Laborers-Employers Cooperation and  
Education Trust  
The parties agree to participate in and contrib-  
ute to the N.J. Laborers-Employers Cooperation and  
Education Trust (hereinafter called L.E.C.E.T.) in ac-  
cordance with the schedule of contributions set forth  
at Article 18 hereof. Said contribution shall be paid  
to the Administrator of the Welfare Fund together  
with other contributions due under this Agreement  
and distributed to the L-E.C.E.T fund when and as  
required. In the alternative, Local 472 and/or Local  
172 may determine that said contribution collected  
on behalf of their union’s members shall not be paid  
to L.E.C.E.T and instead be reallocated to another  
benefit fund maintained under this Agreement as they  
deem appropriate. All Employers signatory to this  
Agreement, whether or not members of the A.G.C. or  
U.T.C.A., shall be bound by the parties’ decision to  
terminate participation and/or reallocate the contri-  
bution as herein provided.  
When the employees work on holidays, fringe  
benefits will be paid for all hours worked.  
69  
ie  
   
When employees do not work on the holiday  
and are paid eight (8) hours of holiday pay, fringe  
benefits shall be paid on the eight (8) hours of holi-  
day pay. These provisions shall also apply to days  
substituted or switched for holidays such as the Fri-  
day after Thanksgiving.  
36. Construction Industry Advancement Program  
The Employer shall contribute to the Construc-  
tion Industry Advancement Fund as required by the  
schedule of contributions at Article 18 hereof. These  
contributions shall be paid to the Administrator at  
the same time and together with other contributions  
made by the Employer for said benefit funds, The  
Administrator shall receive and deposit the Construc-  
tion Industry Advancement Program monies in a  
separate account, and, on a monthly basis, after de-  
ducting a reasonable amount to defray administra-  
tion costs, pay the balance to the Construction In-  
dustry Advancement Program, heretofore established  
and administered by Trustees appointed by the sev-  
eral multi-employer Associations. These monies shall  
be utilized by said Trustees solely for the advance-  
ment, improvement and betterment of the industry  
covered by this Agreement so as to improve condi-  
tions and increase opportunity for employment.  
70  
It is agreed and understood that the Program  
will not be used for any anti-union purposes, that  
the Trustees of 472-172 Funds shall receive minutes  
of all Construction Industry Advancement Program  
Meetings and that the collection of contributions is  
conditioned at all times upon approval of the Trust-  
ees of 472-172 Funds established under Article 33  
and 34 herein.  
The said Trustees shall be permitted to attend  
Construction Industry Advancement Program meet-  
ings as non-voting observers. The collection of con-  
tributions is conditioned upon these understand-  
ings.  
37. Insurance for Employer’s Liability Under  
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974  
The federal legislation entitled, “Employee  
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974”, mandates  
insurance for the Employer liability either through a  
govemment corporation or private coverage.  
In order to adequately protect the industry and  
the Employers in the Heavy Construction Industry,  
each Employer shall contribute an amount to be es-  
tablished by the Labor Relations Committee of the  
Utility and Transportation Contractors Association  
of New Jersey, (hereinafter “U.T.C.A.”) and/or The  
71  
Associated General Contractors of New Jersey, (here-  
inafter “A.G.C.”) for the purposes of providing said  
insurance for the Employer’s protection as of a date  
to be determined to a depository, agency or other  
legal fund to be established and administered by the  
U.T.C.A. and/or the A.G.C.  
The Administrator of the several employee  
benefit funds established herein shall receive and  
deposit all contributions made in accordance with  
this Article and deposit said contributions in a sepa-  
rate account,  
38. Collection Costs  
a} Any Employer delinquent in payment of  
contributions to or filing of reports with regard to  
any of the funds established herein shall pay rea-  
sonable attorney’s fees of no less than 20% of the  
amount due when legal services are required to col-  
lect such indebtedness, together with any costs and  
interest thereon. Notwithstanding any other provi-  
sion of this Agreement, the Employer shall be re-  
quired to pay the fee of the arbitrator when arbitra-  
tion is required, and shall also be required to pay all  
auditing costs where the Employer has failed to grant  
an audit appointment or permit an audit to occur, or  
failed to keep an audit appointment, or failed to sup-  
72  
ply the auditor with all of the requested records, or  
otherwise failed to fully cooperate with the Fund’s  
auditors.  
The Employer shall also be required to pay all  
reauditing costs in any instance where he disputes  
the amount claimed due to the Funds and he is  
reaudited, except where the reaudit shows that the  
Employer did not owe the Funds unpaid contribu-  
tions for the period in question. The Trustees or the  
Co-Chairman acting for them when so designated  
may require any Employer to file a bond with suffi-  
cient surety and in an adequate amount to guarantee  
filing of future reports and payment of required con-  
tributions.  
b) In the event that a payment by an Employer  
is not received by the Funds within thirty calendar  
days of the due date of the payment, an administra-  
tive fee of 2% of the amount due shall be paid by the  
Employer to the Funds. The Employer shall also file  
with the Funds a surety bond up to the amount of  
as a guarantee for all unpaid balances.  
Thereafter, interest shall be due at the rate of 12%  
per annum for any unpaid contributions. This provi-  
sion shall not limit in any way the Unions’ right to  
take any action allowed under Article 17 of this Agree-  
ment.  
73  
39. Fund Arbitration  
In the event that the Union, an Employer or  
the Fund’s Trustees allege any dispute, violation or  
grievance concerning any provision of Article 32  
through 38 or any provision of Article 17, the dis-  
pute, grievance or violation including disputes over  
delinquencies, shall be submitted to the permanent  
arbitrator or arbitrators established by the Employer  
and Employee Trustees of the aforesaid funds for  
resolution and binding decision. The submission of  
any said dispute, grievance or violation to the per-  
manent arbitrator or arbitrators shall be in addition  
to, and not in lieu of or a waiver of, the Union’s right  
to take economic action under Article 17 and/or its  
right to sue for specific performance of the contract.  
Any dispute in connection with the arbitrability of a  
matter shall be resolved by the arbitrator.  
40, Fringe Benefit Payment Bond  
The Trustees of the Pension or Welfare Fund,  
or a designated committee thereof, may require an  
Employer to post a bond not to exceed the sum of  
$200,000.00 with a reputable surety to secure pay-  
ment of all sums due or to become due to the several  
Funds created or maintained under this Agreement.  
74  
41. Subcontractor Assignment of Monies  
If a subcontractor is delinquent to any fund  
established under this Agreement and the subcon-  
tractor assigns monies due to him from the prime  
contractor over to the Fund or Funds, the prime con-  
tractor shall honor the assignment, provided it is in  
writing, to the extent of said monies due to the sub-  
contractor.  
42. Successors in Interest  
This Agreement shail be binding upon the par-  
ties hereto, their successors, administrators, execu-  
tors and assigns. In the event an entire company or  
any part thereto is sold, leased, transferred, or taken  
over by sale, transfer, lease, assignment, receiver-  
ship or bankruptcy proceedings, such company shall  
continue to be subject to the terms and conditions  
of this Agreement for the life thereof. It is under-  
stood by this Article that the parties hereto shall not  
use any leasing device to a third party to evade this  
contract.  
The Employer shall give notice of the exist-  
ence of this Agreement to any purchaser, transferee,  
lessee, assignee, etc. Such notice shall be in writing  
with a copy to the Union at the time the seller, trans-  
feror, lessor, etc. executes a contract of transaction  
75  
as herein described.  
This Agreement shall be binding upon each  
individual Employer regardless of whether or not he  
or it changes the name or style or address of his or  
its business. Each individual Employer shall give  
notice in writing to the Union of any intent to change  
the name or address of his or its business, or to  
perform business under more than one name or at  
more than one address, prior to the adoption of a  
new or different name, style or address, of the addi-  
tion of new names or addresses, as specified herein.  
In the event the Employer fails to give the no-  
tice herein required and/or fails to require the pur-  
chaser, transferee or lessee to assume the obliga-  
tions of this contract, the Employer shall be liable to  
the Union and to the employees covered for all dam-  
ages sustained as a result of such failure to require  
assumption of the terms of this contract.  
43. Preservation of Unit Work  
a) In order to protect and preserve, for the  
employees covered by this Agreement, all work here-  
tofore performed by them, and in order to prevent  
any device or subterfuge to avoid the protection  
and preservation of such work it is hereby agreed as  
follows: Ifand when the Employer shall perform any  
76  
work of the type covered by this Agreement, under  
its Own name or under the name of another, as a  
corporation, company, partnership, or any other busi-  
ness entity, including a joint venture, wherein the  
Employer (including its officers, directors, owners,  
partner or stockholder) exercises either directly or  
indirectly (such as through family members) any sig-  
nificant degree of ownership, management or con-  
trol, the terms and conditions of the Agreement con-  
cerning fringe benefits and payments to the benefit  
funds, including Articles 33 through 39, shall be ap-  
plicable to all such work.  
b) All charges of violations Paragraph (a) of  
this Article, shall be considered as a dispute under  
this Agreement and shall be processed in accordance  
with the procedures for the handling of delinquency  
grievances and the final binding resolution thereof,  
as provided in Article 39 of this Agreement. The  
permanent arbitrator shall be empowered to decide  
all violations of this Agreement involving delinquen-  
cies. As a remedy for violations of this Article, the  
permanent arbitrator is empowered at the request of  
the Union, to require an Employer to pay into the  
affected joint trust funds established under this  
Agreement any delinquent contributions to such  
funds which have resulted from violations and all  
collection costs. Provision for this remedy herein  
77  
does not make such remedy the exclusive remedy  
available to the Union for violation of this Article,  
nor does it make the same or other remedies unavail-  
able to the Union for violation of other articles or  
sections of this Agreement.  
44, Contractor Associations’ Agreement  
If an Employer covered by this Agreement en-  
gages in general contracting work he may execute  
and work under the general contractors agreement  
executed with the Associated General Contractors  
of New Jersey and the Utility and Transportation  
Contractors Association of New Jersey upon execu-  
tion of the Agreement by the Employers and Union.  
45, Renegotiation Notice  
It is mutually agreed that if either party or any  
Employer signator to this Agreement desires to open  
negotiations that written notice will be given sixty  
(60) days prior to February 28, 2007 otherwise this  
Agreement is to continue in full force and effect after  
the expiration date of February 28, 2007, from year to  
year, until written notice is given of a desire to re-  
open negotiations. In order for the contract to be  
terminated after February 28, 2007, the Employer shall  
give written notice at least thirty (30) days prior to  
February 28, of each succeeding year after 2004 and,  
78  
if said thirty days notice is given, the contract shall  
terminate on February 28 of the year following the  
giving of said notice.  
46. Termination Date of Agreement  
It is mutually agreed that the Agreement shall  
be binding upon the parties hereto until February 28,  
2007.  
47. Separability of Provisions  
Should any provision of this Agreement be  
held to be invalid under federal or state law or regu-  
lation, then such provision shall become null and  
void, but the remaining provisions of this Agree-  
ment shall, nevertheless, remain in full force and ef-  
fect.  
48. Non Prevailing Wage Work  
The parties agree to establish committees and  
to meet periodically to discuss non prevailing wage  
competitive work rules, wage rates and fringe ben-  
efits.  
49. Construction Specialist  
To ensure that the needs of new technology  
and future competitive requirements are met, there is  
79  
hereby established the work classification of Con-  
struction Specialist. The Construction Specialist  
shall perform specific work duties as may be required  
by job site conditions and shall receive an appropri-  
ate hourly compensation for said work which will in  
most cases reflect the posted New Jersey prevailing  
wage rate for such work.  
For implicit clarification of the intent of this  
Article and classification, there can be no unilateral  
implementation of the Construction Specialist. The  
implementation or introduction of the Construction  
Specialist on a specific project and the hourly com-  
pensation to be paid to the Construction Specialist  
shall be mutually determined by the unanimous agree-  
ment of a committee comprised of the Employer As-  
sociations and the Local Unions signatory hereto.  
Said committee shall consist of two (2) Employer rep-  
resentatives and two (2) Union representatives, who  
for the purposes of this Article should meet at a pre-  
job conference to discuss possible implementation.  
Should circumstances arise that warrant that the com-  
mittee convene after a project has started, the par-  
ties will be amenable to such meeting.  
It is agreed that the classification of work, rates,  
payments and wages shall be in accordance with the  
following terms and conditions. No employee shall  
suffer any decrease in rates on February 29, 2004.  
80  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have  
executed this Agreement this 2nd day of March,  
2004.  
### UTILITY AND TRANSPORTATION CONTRAC-  
### TORS ASSOCIATION OF NEW JERSEY  
By: Robert A. Briant  
Executive Director  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF NEW JERSEY  
By: Richard L. Forman  
Executive Director  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH  
### AMERICA, HEAVY AND GENERAL CONSTRUC-  
### TION LABORERS’ LOCAL NO. 472 OF THE STATE  
### OF NEW JERSEY  
By: John Hibbs  
President and Business Manager  
### LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH  
### AMERICA, HEAVY AND GENERAL CONSTRUC-  
### [ION LABORERS’ 172 OF THE STATE  
### JF NEW JERSEY  
By: E. Frank Di Antonio  
President and Business Manager  
81  
### STIPULATION AS TO COLLECTIVE  
### BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
It is hereby stipulated and agreed by and be-  
tween the Employer, whose authorized agent has  
executed this Stipulation and Agreement on the be-  
half of the Employer, and the Local Union of the  
Laborers’ International Union of North America,  
A FL.-C.1.0., which Local Union’s authorized agent  
has executed this Stipulation and Agreement on be-  
half of said Local Union, that for and in consider-  
ation of the mutual promises and covenants made  
and exchanged by and between the parties hereto,  
the aforesaid Employer recognizes and agrees to  
abide by the wages, working conditions, hours of  
work, fringe benefit requirements and all other con-  
ditions set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agree-  
ment executed by and between Local Unions Nos.  
472 and 172 of the aforesaid International Union and  
Utility and Transportation Contractors Association  
and or the Associated General Contractors of New  
Jersey, and which apply to the employees employed  
by the Employer and represented by the Union Lo-  
cal 472 or 172 (as the case may be), a party to this  
Stipulation, as if said Agreement was set forth herein  
at length. Expiration date of this Collective Bargain-  
ing Agreement shall be the same as that set forth in  
the aforementioned Collective Bargaining Agreement  
between the aforesaid Local Unions and Utility and  
82  
Transportation Contractors Association and or the  
Associated General Contractors of New Jersey.  
It is further agreed that if the Employer sub-  
contracts any work covered by the aforesaid Agree-  
ment to any subcontractor or other person, the Em-  
ployer shall be liable for all contributions owing to  
the Funds established under the said Agreement in  
the event the subcontractor or person fails to pay  
contributions to the said Funds for employees cov-  
ered by the said Agreement employed by the said  
subcontractor or person.  
If, however, the Employer is subcontractor  
under this Agreement and becomes delinquent in  
the payment of any contributions to any Funds es-  
tablished under this Agreement, the said Employer  
hereby assigns and transfers over all right, title, and  
interest in all monies due it (from the general con-  
tractor, any other contractor or any governmental  
agency) to the said Funds in an amount up to the  
sum due to the Funds. Upon notice by the Funds to  
the general contractor, contractor, or governmental  
agency involved, the said general contractor, con-  
tractor or governmental agency shall immediately  
remit to the Funds the amount claimed to be due to  
the Funds. The amounts claimed to be due shall be  
immediately paid and if any dispute arises over the  
amount paid and a refund is alleged to be due to the  
Employer, the matter may be submitted to arbitra-  
tion. 83  
{IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto set their  
hands and seals this day of,  
Employer-Company’s Name  
Street  
City State Zip Code  
Telephone(  
By:  
Authorized Company Agent  
Print Name and Title  
Heavy and General Construction Laborer’s  
Local Union No. 472 of the Laborer’s International  
Union of North America, A.F.L.-C.1.0  
By:  
Authorized Signature  
Heavy and General Construction Laborer’s  
Local Union No. {72 of the Laborer’s International  
Union of North America, A.F.L.-C.LO.  
By:  
Authorized Signature  
84  
UTCA/AGC Recognition  
Agreement  
Arbitration  
Audits  
Clean-up Facilities  
Collection Costs  
C.A.P.  
Contributions  
Construction Specialist  
Contractor Associations’  
Aggreement  
Detined Contribution Fund  
Delinquencies  
Discrimination  
Driller’s Helper  
Drinking Water  
Drug Free Workplace  
Dues Supplement  
Employee Responsibility  
Employer Discharge Pay  
Featherbedding  
Foreman  
Fringe Benefit  
Payment Bond  
Fund Arbitration  
Grievance Procedure  
Hazardous Waste Sites  
Higher Rate Classification  
Hiring  
### INDEX  
Articles  
1  
39  
33 f, 34 f, 38  
33 (a)(b),  
34(a), (b), 35  
35A, 358, 35C, 36  
49  
44  
35B  
17, 38, 39, 41  
28A  
29  
5  
85  
Page  
6  
74  
61, 65, 72, 73  
59, 66  
63, 64, 67  
79  
78  
66  
30, 31, 32, 33,  
72, 73, 74, 75  
17, 18, 19  
Holidays Observed  
Holiday Pay  
Hours of Work  
insurance for Employer's  
Liability  
Job Stewards  
Jurisdictional Disputes  
L.E.C.E.T.  
Legal Service Fund  
Lockouts  
Lunch  
Monthly Payment Bond  
New Work Classification  
N.J.S.L.H.&S.T.F.  
Non Prevailing Wage Work  
Nuclear Plants  
Partial Pay Day  
Pension Fund  
Picket Line  
Pre-Job Conference  
Preamble  
Preservation of Unit Work  
Rain Gear  
Reimbursement  
By Employer  
Renegotiation Notice  
Safety Codes  
S.E.T. Fund  
Separability of Provisions  
Shifts  
Signature page  
Strikes  
Subcontractors  
Subcontractors Assignment  
Successors in Interest  
30 54  
31 59  
21 47  
37 71  
9 24  
4 15  
35E 69  
66  
17 32  
25 50  
40 74  
28 52  
35D 68  
48 79  
24A 50  
22 48  
34 61  
11 26  
7 23  
5  
43 76  
16 29  
17 33  
45 78  
15 29  
35 65  
47 79  
24 49  
84  
4,11, 17 15, 26, 30  
14 ar  
41 75  
42 75  
86  
Termination Date of  
Agreement  
Territorial Jurisdiction  
Trainees  
Unemployment  
Compensation  
Union Recognition and  
Jurisdiction  
Union Security  
Union Visitation Rights  
Vacation Fund  
Wages  
Wage Payment Procedure  
Watchmen  
Welfare Fund  
Work and Protective  
Clothing  
Work Performance  
46  
29  
87