TI0%  
L, LOO ke  
### MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT  
### BETWEEN  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION  
### AND  
### TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 631  
### AFFILIATED WITH THE  
### INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD  
### OF TEAMSTERS, AFL-CIO  
### FOR THE PERIOD  
July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2007  
Ba ees  
Table of Contents  
   
   
Page  
Article | I 4  
### Article Il 8  
Article) ——_————_—__—__— 42  
Article IV ren 14  
### Article Vo 45  
Article Vl oe 20  
### Article Vl 20  
### Article VW 21  
Article 0) OO ----- 24  
Xo — 21  
Article X! a nn nn 22  
Article 23  
### Article XW 32  
Article XIV nnn 33  
Article XV 00 35  
### Article XV!) OO” 36  
### Article XVII 37  
### Article OO 38  
### Article XX) 39  
Article XX 0 39  
Article XX denne 40  
### Article XX") 41  
### Article XXill A  
Letter of Understanding 42  
Appendix A 43  
### MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT  
### BETWEEN  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION  
### AND  
### TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 631  
### AFFILIATED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD  
### OF TEAMSTERS, AFL-CIO  
### FOR THE PERIOD  
July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2007  
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into this 15" day of July, 2004, on behalf of those eligible  
Employers who are now or who hereinafter may become member of the ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION, hereinafter referred to as the EMPLOYER,  
and TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 631, affiliated with the INTERNATIONAL  
BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the UNION.  
### WITNESSETH  
WHEREAS, the Employer is engaged in general contract construction work in Southern  
Nevada; and, |  
WHEREAS, in the performance of its present and future contracting operations, the  
Employer is employing and will employ large numbers of workmen of the various crafts;  
and,  
WHEREAS, the Employer desires to be assured of its ability to procure Employees for all  
the work which it may do in the area hereinafter defined as Southern Nevada, in sufficient  
numbers and with the necessary skill to assure continuity of work in the completion of its  
construction projects; and,  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties to establish uniform rates of pay, hours of  
employment and working conditions for men employed by the Employer, and,  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties hereto to provide, establish and put into practice  
effective methods for the settlement of misunderstandings, disputes or grievances between  
the parties hereto to the end that the Employer is assured continuity of operation and the  
Employees are assured continuity of employment and industrial peace is maintained and  
the business of the industry efficiently increased;  
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the respective covenants and  
agreements of the parties hereto, each of which shall be interdependent, IT IS HEREBY  
### AGREED:  
### ARTICLE |  
### COVERAGE  
A. This Agreement shall apply to and cover ali Employees of the Employers employed  
to perform or performing construction work, as such Employees and construction  
work are respectively more particularly defined hereafter in Articie I}, A., and Article  
XI of this Agreement, in the area known as Southern Nevada, more particularly  
described as the counties of Clark, Lincoln, Esmeralda and that portion of Nye  
County south of U.S. Highway 6. It is recognized that work covered by the  
Construction Project Agreement at the Nevada Test Site shall be excluded from the  
coverage of this Agreement.  
B. All work performed in the Employer's warehouses, shops or yards which have been  
particularly provided or set up to handle work in connection with a job or project  
covered by the terms of this Agreement and all of the production or fabrication of  
materials by the Employer for use on the project, shall be subject to the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement.  
C.  Allwork performed by the Employer and all services rendered for the Employer, as  
herein defined, by Employees represented by the Union, shall be rendered in  
accordance with each and all of the terms and provisions hereof.  
D. WORK PRESERVATION - The parties recognize that the work covered by this  
Agreement is work that has historically or customarily been performed by  
Employees of the Employer, and therefore the Union and the Employees have  
interest in preserving that work for Employees of the Employer. In order to preserve  
such work for the Employees of the Employer, the parties agree that the Employer  
may not subcontract out, out source, or enter into any agreement of any kind or  
nature with any other person, firm, or entity to perform work covered by this  
Agreement, except as set forth below. .  
A Subcontractor is defined as any person, firm or corporation who agrees  
under contract, oral or written, with the Contractor, or its Subcontractor, to  
perform any part or portion of the work covered by this Agreement, including  
the operation of equipment or the performance of labor.  
Legitimate vendors of materials may deliver materials to a material yard but  
shall not be allowed to place, unload, or apply materials at the work site.  
Employees covered under this Agreement shall move the materials from the  
material yard to the work site. Notwithstanding the above, the Employer may  
utilize a signatory rock, sand, and gravel company to unload its materials at  
the work site when 1. the Employer has none of its equipment available to  
perform work, 2. there are no signatory subcontractors to perform the work.  
ON SITE WORK. For the performance of on site work, the Employer shall  
first utilize all equipment owned, leased, or rented by the Employer and such  
equipment is operated by Employees covered by this Agreement. if the  
Employer does not own or otherwise possess the equipment needed to  
perform on site work, the Employer shall rent/lease available equipment to  
perform the work. Not withstanding the preceding, the Employer may only  
subcontract out on site work covered by this Agreement under the following  
conditions:  
a. Upon request of the Union, the Employer shail provide to the Union  
the identity of the subcontractor, the nature and location of the work;  
the times and dates in which the work is to be performed; and  
duration of the work being subcontracted; a copy of the subcontract;  
b. The subcontractor is signatory to an Agreement with the Union  
containing terms and conditions identical to the terms and conditions  
contained in this Agreement, and the Employees of the subcontractor,  
that perform the work historically or customarily performed by the  
Employees of the Employer, are employed under identical terms and  
conditions as those contained in this Agreement; and  
C. The subcontractor has not been habitually delinquent or deficient in its  
contributions, or is not otherwise indebted to, the fringe benefit trust  
funds set forth in this Agreement. A subcontractor is deemed to be  
habitually delinquent or deficient if the subcontractor has failed to  
make timely or correct payments to the fringe benefit fund for three (3)  
out of twelve (12) months.  
The Employer may only subcontract to Owner Operators that are  
Incorporated and signatory to this Agreement.  
### OFF SITE WORK. |  
The following conditions must be met prior to subcontracting of bargaining  
unit work.  
The Employer may subcontract out off site work only when (1) the Employer  
has utilized all equipment owned, leased, or rented by the Employer and such  
equipment is operated by Employees covered by this Agreement and (2)  
there is no available rental/lease equipment in Southern Nevada.  
lf numbers 1 & 2 above are met then the Employer may sub-contract out  
offsite work under either a or b below:  
The subcontractor is signatory to an agreement with the Union containing  
terms and conditions _ identical to the terms and conditions contained in  
this Agreement, and the Employees of the subcontractor, that perform the  
- work historically or customarily performed by the Employees of the  
Employer, are employed under identical terms and conditions as those  
contained in this Agreement; and the subcontractor has not been habitually  
delinquent or deficient in its contributions, or is not otherwise indebted to, the  
fringe benefit trust funds set forth in this Agreement. A subcontractor is  
deemed to be habitually delinquent or deficient if the subcontractor has failed  
make timely or correct payments to the fringe benefit fund for three  
(3) out of twelve (12) months.  
lf the Employer subcontracts any off site work covered by this Agreement to  
any person, contractor, or other entity who is not signatory to this Labor  
Agreement, the Employer shall (1) require as a part of its subcontract that the  
subcontractor’ s Employees be paid the same aggregate of wages and fringe  
benefits as Employees covered under this Labor Agreement and (2) the  
Employer shall maintain daily records of the subcontractor’ s Employee's  
hours.  
If (1) and (2) above are satisfied and such off site work is subcontracted, upon  
request of the-Union, the Employer shall provide to the Union the identity of  
the subcontractor, the nature and location of the work; the times and dates in  
which the work is to be performed; and duration of the work being  
subcontracted; a copy of the subcontract.  
The Employer agrees that upon request of the Union it will provide to the  
Union in writing on a monthly basis a list of all owner-operators, including  
names, addresses, and telephone numbers, and the hours worked by each  
owner-operator.  
The Employers, and their Subcontractors, shall have freedom of choice in the  
purchase of materials. |  
f. Nothing contained in Article | shall be construed or applied in such a manner as  
will conflict with the provisions of any laws, rulings or regulations of any  
administrative agency having jurisdiction over the subject matter of this  
Agreement.  
defects of material or workmanship or adjustments of  
g. Repairs necessitated by  
newly purchased and/or installed equipment or machinery, will not be subject to  
this agreement when such repairs and/or adjustments are made by th  
manufacturer thereof or his agents or Employees pursuant to the terms of a  
manufacturer’ s guarantee and the Union will not hamper such manufacturer or  
his agents or Employees on such exempted work.  
h. Pre-Job Conference  
  
Whenever an Employer covered by this Agreement comes into this locality, the  
Employer shall notify the Union at least one (1) week prior to the commencement  
of the work: and if requested by either party, a pre-job conference shall be held  
prior to the commencement of that job in the locality in which the work.is to be  
performed on all jobs exceeding five million doliars ($5,000,000.00).  
The Union and the Employer recognize that there are certain problems which  
may arise concerning the manning of ali jobs outside of the Las Vegas zoned  
area. Therefore, the Employer and Union agree to a pre-job conference to  
resolve the following:  
4. To determine the classifications and number of men to be brought in by  
the Employer.  
2. To determine the classifications and number of men to be hired locally.  
3 Todetermine the classifications and number of men to be secured by the  
Union from other areas in accordance with Article 11 of this Agreement.  
4. Allprovisions agreed to at the pre-job conference shall be binding for the  
duration of the project.  
### 5. SUBCONTRACTING  
The parties to this Agreement agree  
competitive, subcontractors may not  
that there may be instances when suitable,  
be available for certain subcontracts. Inssuch  
ts ee te  
instances the Employer will give written notice to the Union prior to the bid or the  
award of the subcontract and the Union will endeavor to locate suitable,  
competitive Union subcontractors to bid the work. If the Employer and the Union  
are unable to locate such signatory subcontractors, it is understood and agreed  
that the Employer will be relieved of Article 1, Section “D’ of the Master Labor  
Agreement covering subcontracting for such subcontracts. -  
### ARTICLE Il  
### UNION RECOGNITION  
_ The Employer hereby recognizes the Union signatory hereto as the sole and exclusive  
Collective Bargaining representative for Employees engaged in work covered by this  
Agreement over whom the Union has jurisdictions, as such jurisdiction is defined by  
the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and recognized by the Union and the  
Employer.  
The Union claims, and the Employer acknowledges that based upon a showing of  
proof, or by an offer of proof that has been declined by the Employer, that a majority of  
the Employer’ s Employees in those classifications set forth in Article XIV of this  
Agreement have authorized the Union to represent them in collective bargaining. The  
Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining. agent under  
section 9(a) of the National Labor Relations Act, 29 U.S.C. 159(a), of all full-time and  
regular part-time Employees employed by the Employer in those classifications set  
forth in Article XIV of this Agreement on all work performed by the Employer within the  
geographical jurisdiction set forth in Article | of this Agreement. The parties agree that  
the Union’ s demand for 9(a) recognition may be made any time during the term of this  
Agreement, and that upon the showing of proof, or an offer of proof, the Employer  
agrees to extend 9(a) recognition to the Union.  
it is understood that the Union does not at this time, nor will it during the term of this  
Agreement, claim jurisdiction over the following classes of Employees: Executives, civil  
engineers and their helpers, superintendents, assistant superintendents, timekeepers,  
messenger boys, office workers or any Employees of the Employer above the rank of  
craft foreman.  
_ The Union hereby recognizes the ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS as the  
sole and exclusive bargaining representatives for its eligible members who are, Or who  
become, parties to this Agreement. (A roster of eligible members will be furnished  
without delay to the Union at the time of signing of this Agreement and when new  
members are accepted.) The Union agrees that during the term of this Agreement, it  
will not negotiate or enter into Agreements with such member of the Association  
relative to part or all of the subject matter covered by this Agreement, provided that the  
members of the above named Association, parties to the Agreement, shall be and  
continue to remain liable under this Agreement during the term thereof, even though  
said members shall resign from the Association prior to the date set for the expiration  
of this Agreement.  
if subsequent to the date of execution of this Agreement an Employer becomes a  
member of the above named Association and authorizes the Association to represent  
it in collective bargaining, said Employer shall become covered by the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement.  
In the employment of workmen for all work covered by this Agreement, the following  
provisions, subject to the conditions of Article Il, A., above shall govern:  
1. The Union shall establish and maintain separate, open and  
nondiscriminatory employment lists for workmen desiring employment on  
work covered by this Agreement, and such workmen shall be entitled to  
registration and dispatching subject to the provisions of this Article. Such  
workmen must be unemployed and available for work.  
The Employer shall first call the dispatching office of the Union for such men  
as it may from time to time need, and the office shall immediately furnish to  
the Employer the required number of qualified and competent workmen of  
the classifications needed and requested by the Employer, strictly in  
accordance with the provisions of this Article.  
Reasonable advance written notice (but not later than twenty-four [24] hours  
prior to the required reporting time) will be given by the Employer to the  
dispatching office upon ordering such workmen; and in the event that forty-  
eight (48) hours after such notice the dispatching office does not furnish such  
workmen, the Employer may procure workmen from any other source or  
sources. If men are so employed, the Employer will immediately report to  
the dispatch office each such workman by name and classification.  
It shall be the responsibility of the Employer, when ordering men, to give the  
Union all of the pertinent information regarding the workmen’ s employment.  
The dispatching office will furnish, in accordance with the request of the  
Employer, each such qualified and competent workman from among those  
entered on said lists, to the Employer, by use of a written referral, in the  
following order of preference, and the selection of workmen for referral to  
jobs shall be ona nondiscriminatory basis and shall not be based on,  
any way affected by, Union membership, bylaws, rules, regulations,  
constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obligation of Union  
membership, policies or requirements.  
“A” List - Workmen who since July 1, 1998 have worked in excess of five  
hundred (500) hours on a proper dispatch for a Signatory Employer in the  
Southern Nevada area, as that area is herein above more particularly  
defined. The Employer may request by name any “A” List workman. Any  
workman, in this category registered as foreman will be referred to any  
Employer requesting such workmen for employment as foreman. The  
Employer may request and the Union will furnish a copy of the “A” list to the  
Employer.  
“B” List - Workmen who within the five (5) years immediately preceding  
registration at the dispatching office have performed work in the  
classifications of the Signatory Union, covered by this Agreement in the  
Southern Nevada area, as that area is herein above more particularly  
4efined. At such time that the “A” list is exhausted, or the workmen on the  
“A” list are otherwise unavailable to the Employer, on a job request, the  
Employer may request by name any workman from the “B” list to fill up to  
50% of the job request .  
it is understood that on a large call of four (4) or more drivers the Employer  
may request and the Union will furnish a driver from the top of the “B” list  
that has the proper qualifications for the job described by the Employer.  
“C” List - Workmen whose names are entered on said lists at the  
dispatching offices of the signatory Union and who are available for  
employment. At such time that the “A” and “B” lists are exhausted, or the  
workmen on the “A” and “B” lists are otherwise Unavailable to the  
Employer, on a job request, the Employer may request by name any  
workman from the “C” list to fill up to 50% of the job request .  
Subject to the foregoing, the Employer is the sole judge as to competency  
of all of his Employees and applicants for employment. The Employer  
may reject any job applicant referred by the Union upon showing good  
cause. Upon request from the Union, the reason for the rejection will be  
supplied to the Union in writing within forty-eight (48) hours from the time  
of the request.  
10  
3. All Employees must perform their work to the satisfaction of the  
Employer. No Employee shall be discharged nor discriminated against for  
activities in behalf of, or representation of the Union not interfering with  
the proper performance of his duties. Protests to suspension or discharge  
must be made in writing to the Employer within ten (10) days.  
4. The Employer shall layoff Employees when the Employer determines that  
there is a lack of work or that there should be a reduction in the size of the  
work force. Employees laid off for lack of work or a reduction in the work  
force shall have a right to recall for fourteen (14) calendar days. Should the  
Employer determine that an increase in the size of its work force is needed,  
the Employer shall first recall those Employees in lay off status of fourteen  
(14) calendar days or less. Employees that refuse an offer of recall or accept  
employment from another signatory Employer shall no longer possess a right  
to recall. The Employer shall make an offer of recall through the Union’ s  
dispatch system.  
5. The Union shall post in the dispatch office all the dispatching procedures of  
the Union to the signatory Employer.  
All of the parties signatory hereto agree that any and all liability which may arise to any  
person or in any proceedings, in any court, or before any governmental agency, in  
connection with the carrying out of the provisions of this Article shall be several only.  
This limitation against joint liability is deemed necessary by the parties because of the  
fact, recognized by each of them that the parties will act severally, and not jointly, in  
such matters, and will, in so acting, not be subject to the control of the other parties.  
Notwithstanding the hiring arrangements outlined herein, the parties recognize that in  
the employ of Employers are certain key workmen who are necessary to the efficient  
continuity of their operations. Itis, therefore, agreed that Employers may transfer their  
key workmen into the area covered by this Agreement, including a maximum of two (2)  
foreman, but not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the number of Employees employed  
on the job. The Employers agree to notify the local dispatching office of the  
appropriate Signatory Union immediately of the names and classifications of all such  
men transferred.  
. Employees employed by an Employer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall  
not be removed nor transferred by the Union unless the prior approval of the Employer  
has been obtained.  
_ The Employer shall give notice of the existence of this Agreement to any purchaser,  
11  
With aw eee  
successor, lessee or assignee of the operation covered by this Agreement or any part  
thereof. Such notice shall be in writing with a copy to the affected Union, at the time  
the seller, transfer or leaser executes a contract or transaction as herein described.  
Each Employee covered by this Agreement who is a member of the Union as  
designated in (A) of this article on the date of execution of this Agreement, or the  
‘effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, shall as a condition of employment  
remain a member in good standing. Any present Employee working within the scope  
of this Agreement who is not a member of the Union and any Employee working within  
the scope of this Agreement hired hereafter shall become and remain a member in  
good standing in the Union in the locality of the Local Union from which he was  
dispatched, within thirty (30) days following the commencement of his employment, the  
effective date of this Agreement or the date of execution of this Agreement, whichever  
is later. The Employer shall be required to discharge any Employee pursuant to this  
section within ten (10) days after receipt of written notice by certified mail that said  
Employee has failed to become or remain a member in good standing.  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, this Article Il, Section |. shall not be |  
applicable if all or part thereof shail be in conflict with applicable law.  
### ARTICLE Ill | |  
### STRIKES - LOCK OUTS - JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
It is the purpose and intent of the parties hereto that all grievances or disputes  
arising between them over the interpretation or application of the terms hereof, and  
that during the term of this Agreement the Union shall not call or engage in, sanction  
or assist in a strike against or any slowdown or stoppage of the work of the  
Employer and will require the Employees it represents to perform their services for  
the Employer on the work described herein when required by said Employer so to  
do: and during the term of this Agreement an Employer signatory to this Agreement  
shall not cause or permit any lockout of the Employees represented by the Union  
signatory hereto or on whose behalf this Agreement is. made on work described  
herein. —  
lf a Signatory Employer is performing work on a project during the construction of  
which such project is declared to be unfair by the Building and Construction Trades  
Council 6f Clark, Lincoln, Nye and Esmeralda Counties and Teamsters Local Union  
‘No. 631, and the work thereon is stopped for that reason, it shall not be deemed a  
violation of this Agreement if, during the period of said stoppage of work the  
Employees represented by the Union fail to perform their work on said project for  
the Employer.  
12  
The Union guarantees during the term hereof that there shall be no strikes,  
slowdowns or stoppages of work occasioned by jurisdictional disputes between the  
Union signatory hereto or any other Union, and that all workmen covered by this  
Agreement shall perform the work customarily performed by them and will  
cooperate and work with Employees represented by other labor organizations.  
All jurisdictional disputes between Teamsters Local Union No. 631 and any other  
Union shall be referred to the International President of the Teamsters Union and  
the International President of the other Union involved for determination. Such  
determination shall be reduced to writing, signed by the two (2) Internationa!  
Presidents and a copy furnished to the Association. Upon receipt of such evidence  
of Agreement, the determination shall be accepted by and become binding upon the  
Employer and the Union.  
All jurisdictional disputes shall be accepted by and become binding upon the  
Employer and the Union. All jurisdictional disputes shail be handled exclusively in  
the manner specified in this Article II, D., and may not be referred to the Grievance  
and Arbitration procedures under Article V.  
In the event the International Brother hood of Teamsters becomes a party to any  
procedures agreed to by the Employer and the Building Construction Trades  
Council, AFL-CiO, established for the purpose of settling jurisdictional disputes,  
then in that event such procedures shall be substituted for the procedure outlined  
above upon receipt of such evidence of agreement, the determination shall be  
accepted by and become binding upon the Employer and the Union. The Employer  
shall not be held contractually liable by complying with such decision.  
Nothing contained in this contract or any part hereof, or in this Article !11 or any part  
hereof, shall affect or apply to the Union signatory hereto, in any action it may take  
against any Employer who has failed, neglected or refused to comply with or  
execute any settlement or decision reached through Arbitration under the terms of  
Article V hereof, or the jurisdictional determinations reached in accordance with  
Article il!, D., above.  
During the life of this Agreement, no Employer signatory hereto or on whose behalf  
this Agreement has been made shall assign Employees of another craft to perform  
work in the classifications covered by this Agreement contrary to the decision or  
agreements of record or established trade practice in the area.  
13  
### ARTICLE IV  
### CLASSIFICATIONS  
Should the Employer employ: workmen in the prosecution of this work in  
occupations which are not covered by one of the classifications herein specified,  
such employment shall then be temporarily classified by the Employer and the  
Union under the classification contained herein which will more nearly fit the  
particular character of the employment. Temporary classifications shall be  
immediately referred to the Joint Conference Board which shall within seven (7)  
days, review and recommend usage of the proper classification. Either party shall  
thereafter have the right to submit a dispute under this section in the manner set  
forth in Article V.  
The number of Employees and the number of classifications of Employees required  
to perform any operation covered by this Agreement shall be determined by the  
Employer.  
Because the Employer and the Union recognize the necessity of eliminating  
restrictions on production and promoting efficiency, nothing shall be permitted that  
restricts production or increases the time required to do the work and no limitation  
shall be placed upon the amount of work which an Employee shall perform nor shall  
there be any restriction against the use of any kind of machinery, tools or labor  
saving devices; provided, however, that no Employees shall be required to work  
under any conditions that are injurious to his health or safety in conflict with a  
present well-established custom regulating such use where the work is being  
performed . :  
The Employer agrees to recognize and observe craft jurisdiction insofar as possible  
and practicable and that wage scales apply to classifications rather than to men and  
the Union agrees to permit transfer of Employees from one classification to any  
other classification, provided that when such transfers are made the Employee shall  
be paid for the entire day on the basis of the rate of the highest paid classification in  
which he worked during the day. —  
When such transfers involve the classifications of more than one (1) craft, it shall  
not be necessary for the operation of this policy that Employees be referred to the  
_ project by more than one (1) Union or employed by classifications of more than one  
(1) craft. Abuse by any Employer of the privilege granted in this Section D shall  
subject him to withdrawal of the privilege for an appropriate period through the  
procedures established in Article V.  
14  
### ARTICLE V  
### BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE AND JOB STEWARD AND  
### SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES AND DISPUTES  
A craft steward shall be a working Employee, appointed by the Union, who shal, in  
addition to his work as an Employee, be permitted to perform during working hours  
such of his Union duties as cannot be performed at other times. The Union agrees  
that such duties shall be performed as expeditiously as possible and the Employer  
agrees to allow craft stewards a reasonable amount of time for the performance of  
such duties. The Union shall notify the Employer in writing (facsimile acceptable) of  
the appointment of each Union steward and the Employer, before laying off or  
discharging the Union steward for any reason other than cause, shall notify the  
Union in writing (facsimile acceptable) of his intention to do so at least two working  
days before such lay-off. It is recognized by the Employer that the person  
appointed Union steward shail remain on the job as long as there is work in his  
trade which he is capable of performing. In no event shall an Employer discriminate  
against a craft steward or lay him off, or discharge him on account of any action  
taken by him in the proper performance of his Union duties.  
The craft/jobsite steward, as defined herein, is to receive grievances or disputes  
from Employees working in classifications of his craft and shall immediately report  
them to his Business Agent or special representative who shall immediately attempt  
to adjust said grievance or dispute with the Employer or his representative.  
Craft Stewards are assigned to the Employer on a regular basis as a regular  
Employee. The Employer shall be notified in writing annually as to which are  
considered craft stewards.  
Jobsite stewards are assigned to a particular jobsite for the duration of that job. The  
Union shall notify the Employer in writing who are jobsite stewards within forty-eight  
(48) hours of the start of the project, or when a steward is assigned by the Union.  
Such Business Agent, or special representative, shall have access to the project  
during working hours for the administration of this Agreement and shali make every  
reasonable effort to advise the Employer, or his representative of his presence on  
the project and shall not unreasonably stop nor interfere with the work of any  
workmen without the permission of the Employer, or his representative. Unless  
prevented by emergency or an occurring violation of the Agreement, the Union  
‘representative will attempt to give prior notice of his visit to the Employer.  
15  
Grievances and Disputes: No dispute, complaint or grievance shall be recognized  
unless called to the attention of the individual Contractor and the Union within ten  
(10) working days. This imitation shall not apply to Employer contributions for fringe  
benefit programs required under this Agreement.  
1.  
The craft/jobsite Steward or Union representative is to receive grievances  
from Employee members of his craft and shall immediately report them to  
the Employer or his representative. The Union files the grievances.  
The Union’ s and the Employer’ s representatives shall endeavor to settle all  
grievances.  
if the grievance is not settled at Step 2 the grievance shall be referred to the  
Association representative within ten (10) working days. The Association  
representative shall endeavor to settle the grievance with the Union  
representative and the Employer.  
Failure to resolve the grievance or dispute shall be referred to the Joint  
Arbitration Board within fifteen (15) working days after referral to Step 3 or  
the grievance or dispute shall not be considered by the Joint Arbitration  
Board and the case will be considered closed.  
Joint Arbitration Board  
There shall be a Joint Arbitration Board of five (5) members, two  
representing the Union, two representing the.Employer and one neutral  
member, who shall be the Chairman. The Union representatives and the  
Employer representatives shall be chosen from a pool of those individuals  
who actually negotiated this Agreement when available.  
The purpose of the Joint Arbitration Board is to settle all disputes or  
grievances referred to it and to interpret this Agreement in final and binding  
arbitration and to prescribe appropriate remedies for violations of this  
Agreement. The Joint Arbitration Board is to be limited to these purposes  
and shall hear cases and render decisions based solely upon the  
interpretation of this Agreement. The Joint Arbitration Board shall not be  
required to make adjustments in wage claims or unpaid classification  
premiums or overtime payments retroactive beyond ten (10) days from date  
of grievance unless by unanimous vote of the Joint Arbitration Board  
members. The ten (10) days limitation shall not apply to Employers  
contributions for fringe benefit programs required under this Agreement.  
16  
The Joint Arbitration Board Chairman shall be selected by a Selection  
Committee comprised of six (6) members. The Union shall appoint three (3)  
members and the Employer Association will appoint three (3) members. The  
Selection Committee thus formed shall be appointed by the Employer  
Association and the Union within fifteen (15) days after execution of this  
Agreement.  
The Union shall nominate three (3) candidates and the Employer Association  
signatory to this Agreement shall nominate three (3) candidates for Chairman  
of the Joint Arbitration Board. From this list of six (6) candidates the  
Selection Committee shail select the Chairman of the Joint Arbitration Board  
by majority vote within thirty (30) days after execution of this Agreement. In  
case of a tie vote those two (2) nominees shall be removed from the list and  
a new vote taken. This shall continue until a majority vote is reached.  
The Selection Committee shall select one (1) alternate Chairman from the  
remaining list of nominees. He will serve as Chairman in the absence of  
the first selected Chairman.  
Replacements that may become necessary for the Joint Arbitration Board  
chairman shall be made in like manner from the same Selection  
Committee. The Joint Arbitration Board chairman shall serve for a term of  
‘one (1) year or until replaced by a majority vote. Either the Union or the  
Employer Association may request the replacement of the Chairman by  
written notice to the other parties. A new Chairman shall be elected within  
ninety (90) days of the written notice.  
Joint Arbitration Board members other than the Chairman shall be appointed  
by the signatories in the following manner. The Union shall appoint two (2)  
representatives and the Employer Association shall appoint two (2)  
representatives from a pool of those individuals who negotiated this  
Agreement. Only two (2) representatives from the Union panel and two (2)  
representatives from the Employer panel of the Joint Arbitration Board  
members shall decide a case with the Chairman. Should there not be an  
equal number of Employers and Union representatives present when the  
hearing commences, the respective representation present shall  
nevertheless be deemed to have an equal number of votes for purposes of  
arriving at a decision or a tie.  
17  
Convening the Joint Arbitration Board  
The Joint Arbitration Board will convene upon request of the Union, the  
Association or any Employer party to this Agreement using the following  
procedure.  
a. lf the request is initiated by the Union, it shall be initiated by written  
request to the representative of the Employer Association who  
represents the Employer grieved against, with copies to the  
appropriate Union representative and the Employer involved.  
b. If the request is initiated by an Employer and/or Association, it shall  
be initiated by written request to the Secretary-Treasurer or his  
representative of the Union, with copies to the Employer and/or  
Association involved, as the case may be.  
GC. The initiating party (the Union, the Association or the Employer)  
shall immediately notify the Chairman of the Joint Arbitration Board  
that a dispute exists.  
The Chairman shall schedule the Joint Arbitration Board meeting for a date  
mutually agreed to by the parties but not more than seven (7) calendar days  
from the date of receipt of the grievance by the Chairman unless the time is  
extended by mutual agreement of the parties.  
A quorum requires that all Joint Arbitration Board positions be filled. There  
shall be two (2) Union representatives, two (2) Employer representatives and  
the Chairman present, each shall have one (1) vote. The Chairman shall  
only cast his vote if there is a tie.  
The Joint Arbitration Board Chairman shall set meetings on request or as he  
deems advisable to set up ground rules, study and interpret the Agreement  
and to prepare forms and procedures for hearing and presentation of cases.  
The Joint Arbitration Board Chairman shall keep minutes and shall notify all  
parties of decisions rendered in writing, delivered by registered or certified  
mail or in person.  
Any expenses incurred by the Joint Arbitration Board shall be paid by the  
losing party.  
18  
10.  
11.  
12.  
13.  
The Chairman shall be paid for each case at which he officiates ata salary or  
rate to be agreed upon by signatories and the Chairman.  
Voting on any grievances or dispute or any other proposition shall be done in  
the executive session only and no record of the distribution of votes shail be  
kept or distributed.  
The Joint Arbitration Board shall remain in session, exclusive of recess, until  
it has arrived at a decision.  
The determinations of the Joint Arbitration Board are final and binding upon  
the parties.  
A simple majority vote is required to dispose of any grievance or dispute  
submitted to the Joint Arbitration Board in accordance with the procedures  
set out in this Article.  
?  
Should the adverse party fail to comply with the decision of the Joint  
Arbitration Board within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the decision  
of the Joint Arbitration Board, and if the adverse party has not sought judicial  
relief from decision of the Joint Arbitration Board within thirty (30) calendar  
days from the date of the decision, the other party may request and the Joint  
Arbitration Board shall grant additional, nontraditional remedies and  
damages incurred by the original violation(s) of the Agreement as well as  
damages incurred by the adverse failure to comply with the decision.  
Should a party be forced to seek judicial confirmation of the Joint Arbitration  
Board’ s decision, and the court does confirm such decision, the prevailing  
party shall be awarded its actual attorneys fees and costs incurred in  
obtaining judicial confirmation of the decision.  
There shall be no Attorneys, Court Reporters or Recording Devices of any  
Type, at the Joint Arbitration Board hearings unless otherwise agreed on a  
case by case basis between the Union and the individual Employer involved  
in the dispute. Should a court reporter be utilized the party employing the  
reporter shall pay the fee for the original transcript and a copy. Other parties  
desiring a copy shall pay the fee for the copy. Provided however, the parties  
may agree to share the cost of the court reporter equally. The original  
transcript shall be the official record.  
19  
14. No language in this Article V shall preclude the Employer from filing a  
grievance and said grievance shall be handled in accordance with the  
procedures set forth in this Article V.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### FOREMEN  
The selection of the individual who will be Teamster foreman is at the sole discretion of the  
Employer. It is understood that a foreman shall be an Employee covered by this  
Agreement. It is also understood that foremen shall receive the wage rate designated for  
foremen. Foremen may work with the tools of the trade in accordance with the provisions  
of Article IV, B. Only foremen who normally work with the tools of their trade during  
straight-time periods, in addition to the performance of supervisory duties, may work with  
the tools of their trade during overtime periods. When an Employer employs ten (10) or  
more Teamsters operating equipment under Teamster’ s jurisdiction, the Employer shall  
designate one (1) Teamster as a working foreman who shall receive one dollar ($1.00) per  
hour more than the highest wage rate over which the foreman has supervision. The need  
for and number of foremen required for the performance of the work shall be determined in  
with the provisions of Article IV, B. It is understood that in certain cases, by  
reason of custom and practice established by the parties hereto, a foreman may supervise  
the work of Employees employed in more than one craft’ s jurisdiction. If a dispute arises  
with respect to the application of this understanding, such dispute shall be determined  
according to the procedure set forth in Article V of this Agreement on the basis of such  
custom and practice.  
Except in case of emergency, if any of the Employees not covered by this Agreement, as  
set forth in Article B., such as: Superintendents, Assistant Superintendents, shail act in  
the capacity of a foreman or perform work in the classification covered by this Agreement  
such Employee shall be subject to all terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
### HOLIDAYS  
### ARTICLE VII  
The following days are recognized as holidays for Employees herein classified: New  
Year’ s Day, President’ s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veteran’ s  
Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday following Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. If any of  
the above Holidays should fall on Sunday, the Monday following shall be considered a  
legal holiday. Work on such days shall be paid for at double the straight-time rate of pay.  
No work shall be required on Labor Day, except in extreme emergency when life or  
property is in imminent danger.  
20  
### ARTICLE Vili  
### CONFLICTING AGREEMENTS  
No Employer party to this Agreement shall be required to pay higher wages or be subject to  
less favorable working rules than those applicable to other Employers employing  
Employees represented by the Union signatory hereto.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS  
In the event the Employer bids a Public Works project, the wages in this Labor Agreement  
at time of bid shall remain in effect for the duration of the project from the date of  
commencement of work on the project. However, the fringe benefits shall be increased as  
provided for in the current construction labor agreement.  
### , ARTICLE X  
### QUALIFICATIONS  
A. Each of the parties hereto warrants and agrees that it is under no disability of any  
kind, whether arising out of the provisions of Its articles of incorporation,  
constitution, bylaws, or otherwise, that will prevent it from fully and .completely  
carrying out and performing each and all of:the terms and conditions .of this  
Agreement, and further, that it will not, by the adoption or amendment of any  
provision of its articles of incorporation, constitution or bylaws, or by contract or by  
any means whatsoever, take any action that will prevent it or impede it in the full  
and complete performance of each and every term and condition hereof.  
The warranties and Agreements contained in this paragraph are made by each of  
the signatories hereto on his own behalf and on behalf of each organization for  
which it is acting hereunder. The individuals signing this Agreement in their official  
capacity and the signatories hereto hereby guarantee and warrant their to  
act for and bind the respective parties or organizations whom their signatures  
purport to represent, and the Locai Union on whose behalf the said parties are  
signing the said Agreement.  
B. This Agreement contains all of the covenants, stipulations and provisions agreed  
upon by the parties hereto and no agent or representative of either party has  
authority to make, and none of the parties shall be bound by nor liable for any  
statement, representation, promise, inducement or agreement not set forth herein  
21  
— -  
that any provision in the working rules of the Union with reference to the relations  
between the Employers and their Employees, in conflict with the terms of this  
Agreement, shall be deemed to be waived and any such rules or regulations which  
may hereafter be adopted by the Union shail have no application to the work  
hereunder.  
### ARTICLE Xl  
### WORK COVERED  
The construction of, in whole or in part, or modification thereof, including any  
structures or operations which are incidental thereto, the assembly, operation,  
maintenance and repair of all equipment, vehicles and other facilities used in  
connection with the performance of the aforementioned work and services, and  
including without limitation the following types or classes of work:  
Street and highway work, grading and paving, excavation of earth and rock grade  
separations, elevated highways, viaducts, bridges, abutments, retaining wails,  
subways, airport grading, surfacing and drainage, electric transmission line and  
conduit projects, water supply, water development, reclamation, irrigation drainage  
and flood control projects, water mains, pipe lines, sanitation and sewer projects,  
dams, tunnels, shafts, aqueducts, canals, reservoirs, intakes, channels, levees,  
dikes, revetments, quarrying of breakwater or riprap stone, foundations (except  
building foundations), pile driving, piers, locks, rivers and harbor projects,  
breakwaters, jetties and dredging, except work covered by the dredging Employers  
and the Unions in the hydraulic suction and clamshell dredging agreement, which  
shall be excluded from the terms of this contract.  
The construction, erection, alteration, repair, modification, demolition, addition or  
improvement in whole or in part of any building structure, including oil or gas  
refineries and incidental structures, which are incidental thereto, or the installation,  
operation, maintenance and repair of equipment and other facilities used in  
connection with the performance of such building construction except where such  
-structures are an incidental or supplemental part of highway and engineering  
construction, as defined in this Article.  
Itis specifically agreed and understood by the parties that in addition to part —  
of the above, but not limited to the following, the driving of water trucks, water pulls,  
and'dump trucks have historically or customarily been performed by Employees of  
the Employer under the terms and conditions of this and prior collective bargaining  
agreements with the Union.  
22  
agreements with the Union.  
It is further agreed and understood that Employees covered by this Agreement shall  
continue to be assigned all work which they have historically or customarily been assigned  
by the Employer to perform. The Employer agrees that such work assignments under this  
Agreement are to be awarded to Employees under this Agreement as opposed to any  
other represented or unrepresented Employees of the Employer, and that if there is any  
dispute or claim raised by any other Employees of the Employer as to such work  
assignments, the Employer hereby agrees to assign the work to the Employees covered by  
this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE Xil  
### WORKING RULES  
The following rules shal! govern the employment of Employees performing any work  
covered by the terms of this Agreement.  
### SINGLE SHIFT  
1. Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal! period, between 5:00 a.m. and  
4:30 p.m. shall constitute a days work. Forty (40) hours, Monday 5:00 a.m.  
through Friday 4:30 p.m. shall constitute a weeks work.  
The Employer may, after first notifying the Union, work a work week  
consisting of ten (10) hours per day for four (4) consecutive days, between  
the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the straight  
time rate; providing all basic trades on the work site work the same shifts.  
The Union and the Employer may mutually agree to four (4) tens (10's)  
without participation by other trades. The Union and the Employer may  
mutually agree upon different work weeks.  
2. The regular starting time of single shifts shall be between 5:00 a.m. and 8:00  
a.m. Starting times may be staggered on one-quarter (1/4) hour increments.  
3. All time worked in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal  
period, or all time worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week and all time  
worked before 5:00 a.m. and after 4:30 p.m. and all work performed on  
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, shall be paid at the overtime rate.  
4. It is agreed that the starting times during summer months, due to  
temperature, may be established by the Employer at 4:00 a.m. In such cases  
23  
It is agreed that the starting times during summer months, due to  
temperature, may be established by the Employer at 4:00 a.m. In such cases  
the overtime requirement before 5:00 a.m. as referred to in paragraph 3.  
above will not apply.  
On a single shift operation, the Employer will be responsible for the two (2)  
hour minimum, four (4) hour minimum, six (6) hour minimum and eight (8)  
hour minimum as defined in this Article XII, Section E., 1.  
Applicants dispatched by the Union will be paid at the applicable rate for road  
tests, drug tests, and interviews for special positions unless they fail the road  
test, drug test, or are not qualified for the position they are dispatched for.  
The Employer will notify the Union of specific reasons why these applicants  
were not accepted in writing if requested. When the Employer calls more  
than one (1) applicant for a particular specialty job and hires less than the  
number he called they will all be paid at the applicable rate. |  
  
### MULTIPLE SHIFTS  
When so elected by the Employer, multiple shifts may be worked for three  
(3) or more consecutive days, provided that the Union is notified twenty-four  
(24) hours in advance of the effective date of the starting of such multiple  
shift operations; provided, however, that men working on multiple shifts shall  
not be interchangeable with those working on a single shift basis. In no  
event shall the regular working hours of different shifts overlap, nor shall any  
interval between shifts exceed the reasonable time necessary to change  
shifts, and in no event shall such interval exceed one (1) hour. .  
On multiple shift operations, Employees reporting for work at the regular  
starting time and for whom no work is provided, shall receive pay for two (2)  
hours at the stipulated rate for so reporting unless he has been notified  
before the end of the last preceding shift not to report, and any Employee  
who reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less  
than four (4) hours pay, and if more than four (4) hours are worked in any  
one (1).day, shali receive not less than six (6) hours pay therefore, and if  
more than six (6) hours are worked in any one (1) day, shall receive not less  
than eight (8) hours pay therefore; unless prevented from working due to  
inclement weather, a catastrophic incident, or a major mechanical  
breakdown.  
24  
When three (3) shifts are worked, the first shift shall work eight (8)  
consecutive hours exclusive of meal period for which eight (8) hours straight-  
time will be paid Monday through Friday. The first shift shall start between  
the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. The second shift shall work seven and  
one-half (7 1/2) consecutive hours exclusive of meal period for which eight  
(8) hours straight-time will be paid Monday through Friday. The third shift  
shall work seven (7) consecutive hours exclusive of meal period for which  
eight (8) hours straight-time will be paid Monday through Friday. There shall  
not be any overlapping of shifts.  
Any time worked from Friday midnight to Sunday Midnight or on Holidays or  
in excess of the regular shifts hours shall be paid for at the overtime rate,  
except as provided in the last paragraph of this Article XIll, B. 2.  
The Friday graveyard shift ending on Saturday moming will be considered  
Friday work. The Saturday graveyard shift ending Sunday morning will be  
considered Saturday work. The Sunday graveyard shift ending on Monday  
morning will be considered Sunday work.  
When only two (2) shifts are worked, the Employer may regulate the starting  
time to permit the maximum utilization of daylight hours. Each shift shall  
work eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period for which  
Employees shall receive eight (8) hours pay. Both shifts shall be paid at the  
straight-time rate, Monday through Friday. The second shift shall be paid at  
the straight-time rate, unless any other craft shall receive a shift premium in  
which case that shift premium shall apply to the second shift, Monday  
through Friday.  
It is agreed that the Employers and the Union may mutually agree, in writing,  
upon different starting or quitting times for any of the above mentioned shift  
arrangements.  
For shifts not falling within the multiple shift language contained herein, and  
regardless of the number of shifts, the normal starting time for shift shall be  
between 5:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. Any Employee who has a starting time  
outside of the normal starting time shall receive a premium of $1.00 per hour  
over the base straight time rate. This provision shall not apply to "Special  
Shifts” or maintenance and fueling Employees.  
25  
D.  
E.  
### SPECIAL SHIFTS  
When the individual Employer produces evidence in writing to the Local  
Union of a bona fide job requirement which certifies that work can only be  
done outside the normal shift hours and notifies the Local Union in writing at  
least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of such special shift (except in  
the case of emergency, in which case notification must be made via fax), the  
individual Employer may initiate such special shift of eight (8) consecutive  
hours exclusive of meal period, Monday through Friday, at the straight-time  
rate, such shifts shall be in accordance with Section E of this Article.  
itis agreed that the Employers and the Union may mutually agree, in writing,  
upon different starting or quitting times for any of the above mentioned shift  
arrangements.  
### OVERTIME  
4. Time and one-half (1/2) the regular straight-time rate shall be paid for the first  
four (4) hours working in excess of eight (8) hours on any one day, Monday  
through Friday, and for the first twelve (12) hours working on Saturday.  
Double time (2X) the regular straight-time shift rate shail be paid for all hours  
worked in excess of twelve (12) hours on any one day, Monday through  
Saturday, and for all work performed on Sundays and on recognized  
Holidays.  
_ As an exception to this overtime provision upon prior notification to the  
Union, Employees engaged in the operation of water trucks on Sunday and  
Holidays where such work is required by law or governmental regulation and  
such requirement is outside of the Employer’ s control shall be paid at time  
and one-half (1/2) their regular straight-time rate of pay.  
3. When the Employer requires that equipment be operated or that work be  
performed before the shift starts or after it ends, or on Saturdays, Sundays,  
or Holidays, such work will be first offered to the primary driver who has been  
operating the equipment or performing the work on a regular straight time  
shift during the work week. .  
### REPORTING TIME AND MINIMUM PAY .-  
26  
4.. Any workman and/or Employee reporting for work at the regular starting time and for  
whom no work is provided, will receive pay for two (2) hours at the stipulated rates  
for so reporting unless he has been notified before the end of the last preceding  
shift not to report; and any Employee who reports for work and for whom work is  
provided will receive not less than four (4) hours pay, if more than four (4) hours are  
worked, shall receive not less than six (6) hours pay therefore, and if more than six  
(6) hours are worked in any one (1) day, shall receive not less than eight (8) hours  
pay therefore; unless prevented from working due to inclement weather, a  
catastrophic incident, or a major mechanical breakdown. The two (2), four (4), six  
(6), and eight (8) hour provisions of this Article will apply to Saturday, Sunday and  
Holiday work.  
On subsistence jobs any workman who qualifies for reporting pay as provided for  
above, shall also be entitled to receive the subsistence allowance applicable to that  
particular job.  
2. In case Employees work in more than one (1) classification or kind of work, they  
shall receive the rate of the highest paid classification in which they are employed  
for the full day.  
Subject to the provisions of Article V, the Employers agree that if a particular piece  
of equipment is kept in service during any given shift, the Employee first assigned to  
operate the equipment at the beginning of the shift shall not be laid off during that  
particular day for the sole purpose of providing continuing employment to, another  
Employee whose equipment is taken out of service on the same day.  
3. Workmen referred, under Article II, to the jobs, who are not abie to  
perform the job to which they are referred because of their own lack of qualifications  
or for some other reason which is the workman’ s own responsibility, shall not be  
paid show-up time and subsistence and shail go to the bottom of the out-of-work list  
from which applicants for employment are dispatched to the Employer's jobs in  
accordance with Article li, D. of this Agreement.  
4. If the individual Employer has used his own equipment to perform the work on the  
straight time shift during the regular work week, the Employer shall make and  
exhaust every effort to use that equipment to perform the overtime work required on  
the same job during the regular work week and on Saturdays and Sundays, before  
outside equipment is hired to perform the same work.  
5. In the event that an Employee covered by this Agreement is given a traffic citation  
for overloads, spills, or defective equipment, the Employer shall reimburse the  
Employee for the amount of the fine and costs imposed on account of such citation  
2/  
and other josses including but not limited to incarceration, or loss of license and for  
lost wages as the result of court appearances, So long as the overloads, spills, or  
defective equipment has not been found to the drivers error. No Employee will be  
asked to break any Federal, State, or Local laws nor will he be retaliated against in  
any way for refusing to do so.  
- § Mechanics may be required to furnish simple hand tools up to two (2) inch  
wrenches, and sockets, and up to three-quarter (3/4) inch drive. All electronic and  
diagnostic equipment, specialty tools, impacts over half (1/2) inch drive will be  
furnished'by the Employer. The Employer will replace any broken tools with like-for-  
like and furnish all twist drills, sanding, cutting disks, etc. The Employer will provide  
all required safety items for the mechanic.  
7. When required Coveralls, rubber boots and gloves shall be furnished by the  
contractor to spreader drivers working on road oilers.  
8. The Employer shall provide insurance for tools and boxes to a  
maximum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) with a one hundred dollar  
($100.00) deductible. It is understood that some form of evidence shall be provided  
to show theft, fire, or other loss. A current not more than one (1) year old too!  
inventory must be provided to the Employer as coverage will only cover those tools.  
To implement this section, the individual mechanic shall provide a complete written  
inventory of the tools within five (5) working days. Tools will not be removed from  
Employer’ s premises without notifying Employer. In addition to the foregoing, the  
Employer will provide a safe and secure place for storage of tools when not in use  
by the Employee.  
### F. MEAL PERIODS  
An unpaid meal period of one-half (1/2) hour shall be scheduled after the fourth  
(4") hour and before the end of the fifth (5"") hour of each Employees starting time.  
Thereafter, they shall be allowed a one-half (1/2) hour meal period for every five (5)  
hours they are required to remain on the job. On camp jobs where the Employer  
provides board and room, Employees shall be entitled to a meal period before  
commencing and after concluding work.  
However, if the Employee is required to work through the meal period, the  
Employee shall be paid one-half (1/2) hour of the applicable overtime rate of pay or  
shall have the opportunity to work one-half (1/2) hour less at the end of the shift.  
Employees required to work through the meal period shall not be required to take a  
“meal period due to mechanical breakdown.  
28  
G.  
### PAYMENT OF WAGES  
All wages shall be paid on the job on a designated weekly payday. When men are  
laid off or discharged, they must be paid wages due them at the time of layoff or ©  
discharge. Employees who voluntarily quit shall be paid on their next regular pay -  
day.  
### SANITATION, SAFETY AND REST PERIODS  
All approved safety orders of the state, county, or federal government shall  
be observed by the Employers and the Employees. Suitable coo! sanitary drinking  
water and adequate toilet facilities shall be furnished by the Employer in accordance  
with the state, county or federal government regulations.  
Employees shail be given a rest period of not less than eight (8) hours between the  
termination of any work and the commencement of another straight time shift. If  
Employees do not receive the required eight (8) hours rest period, they shall be paid  
the applicable overtime rate for each hour worked, until they have received eight (8)  
hour rest. Employees shall not be required to work in excess of sixteen (16) hours  
within any consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period except in case of emergency  
where life and/or property is in imminent danger.  
_ Itis agreed that on all newly purchased diesel powered trucks, 275 H.P. and above,  
that such vehicles shall be equipped with working air conditioning units, and  
operable heaters.  
When the Employer transports Employees from yard to jobsite or within the  
jobsite, he shall provide safe and suitable transportation.  
_ An Employee employed to drive equipment over public roads shall maintain a  
current valid driver’ s license of the proper classification and a valid medical  
card.  
### ZONE PAY, SUBSISTENCE AND TRAVEL TIME  
29  
a. Employees covered by this Agreement performing work covered by  
this Agreement shall be entitled to the following wage rates for all  
hours worked. Zone distances are calculated from City. Hall, Las  
Vegas, Nevada:  
   
Zone Wage Rate  
Zone 1( 0-30 miles) Base Wage Rate  
Zone 2 (30 - 50 miles) $1.50 above Base Wage Rate  
Zone 3 (50 - 70 miles) $2.50 above Base Wage Rate  
Zone 4 (70 + miles) $3.50 above Base Wage Rate  
b. An Employee reporting for work at the regular starting time and for  
whom no work is provided, shall receive the appropriate zone pay  
differential for eight (8) hours, in addition to show up pay.  
c¢. When a job site is located in more than one (1) zone, all hours  
worked on that site shall be paid in accordance with the zone rate of  
the zone in which the preponderance of work is performed.  
d. Ona job or project which is located over seventy (70) miles from the  
City Hall of Las Vegas, Nevada, it shall be the Empioyer's  
responsibility to provide for and maintain acceptable board and  
room seven (7) days per week or make a subsistence payment of  
forty dollar ($40.00) per day for days worked.  
e. An Employee or workman who is required to report or perform any  
work within any established zone area for any portion of the day or  
shift shall receive the established zone pay rate for the entire day or  
shift, but in no event les than eight (8) hours.  
3. Employees at campsite shall receive travel allowance at straight-time rate from  
the campsite to jobsite and back to campsite with sate and suitable transportation  
furnished by the Employer in compliance with Nevada State Laws.  
4. When equipment is moved from one construction job to another, or from yard to  
job-site, or vice versa, by an Employee covered by this Agreement, such  
transportation shall be under the wage scales and conditions of this Agreement. In  
addition, the driver transporting suchequipment will be paid reasonable expenses  
incurred on such trip upon the submission of supporting receipts. The driver shall  
also be given return transportation, or a reasonable allowance therefore, from the  
point of delivery of the equipment direct to his starting place and pay therefore at  
the regular straight-time hourly rate for all hours spent returning as a passenger.  
30  
When an Employee is required to spend more than eight (8) hours per day in  
transporting a vehicle, such additional driving time shall be paid at the applicable  
overtime rate. The payment provided in this paragraph shall be in lieu of the travel  
pay zone pay and subsistence provided in Article XIl,! of this Agreement and th  
driver shall have no claim for travel in addition to such payments.  
### . WORK PRESERVATION  
A joint labor-management committee consisting of Union contractors and the Union  
shall be established, and have authority to target specific projects for the purposes  
of preserving work for members of the Local Union under this Agreement through  
modification to this Agreement. These conditions shall be established on an as  
needed basis. The favored nations provisions of Article XII! of this Agreement shall  
not apply to modifications resulting from the actions of the committee however, any  
conditions established through this process shall be available to any signatory  
Employer that desires to submit a bid on the targeted project.  
Should there not be an equal number of Employers and Union representatives  
present at the meeting, the respective representation present.shall nevertheless  
be deemed to have an equal number of votes for purposes of arriving at a  
decision or a tie.  
Upon receipt of a request for modification, the Union shall notify all other signatory  
Employers as soon as possible; and should modification be approved, notice of the  
modification shall be given to all other Employer signatories in sufficient time to  
submit a bid on the targeted project.  
### DRUG/ALCOHOL REHABILITATION PROGRAM  
The Employer may require testing for substance abuse under the Drug/Alcohol  
Rehabilitation Program incorporated herein as Appendix “A”.  
### VACATIONS:  
There shall be no retaliation against any Employee who takes a pre-arranged  
vacation.  
### DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE:  
Discipline and discharge shall only be for just cause. However, given the nature  
of the construction industry, it is acknowledged that jobs of short durations may  
31  
not allow sufficient time to effectively utilize principles of progressive discipline.  
In such cases, the Employer must consider the Employee’s overall employment  
history with the Company. It is further agreed that the following willful acts are  
dischargeable offences including but not limited to:  
Drinking of alcoholic beverages while on duty  
On the job physical! altercation  
Use or sale of illegal narcotics while on duty  
Willful, wanton or malicious damage to the Employers property  
  
Inefficiency  
Testing positive to illegal drugs or alcohol.  
### NQOaAPON >  
### EQUIPMENT AND TOOLS:  
Where an Employee is required to provide tools under this Agreement, the  
Employee shall be paid an additional twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour as a tool  
allowance. Where the Employer requests and the Employees agrees to provide  
tools not required by this Agreement, the Employer will compensate the.Employee  
an additional amount as agreed to between the Employer and the Employee. Such  
agreement shall be in writing and copy forwarded to the Union and enforceable  
through this Agreement.  
### BULLETIN BOARDS.:  
Each Employer shall allow the Union to provide and maintain a bulletin board for  
the exclusive use of the Union at all of the Employer’ s yards and satellite yards  
outside near the area where Employees represented by the Union are dispatched.  
The bulletin board shall be used solely for posting Union meeting notices. Each  
bulletin board shall have a lockable glass or Plexiglas enclosure, with the Employer  
and a representative designated by Union having the only access to the bulletin  
board(s). The Union agrees that disparaging comments about the Employer shall  
not be posted on the bulletin board.  
### | ARTICLE  
### GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE  
It is not the intent of either party hereto to violate any laws, rulings, OF regulations of any  
governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction over the subject matter of this  
Agreement and the parties hereto agree that in the event any provisions of this Agreement  
are held or constituted to be void, as being in contravention of any such laws, rulings or  
32  
regulations, the parties hereto agree to enter immediate n gotiations thereon;  
nevertheless, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless  
the parties so found to be void are wholly inseparable from the remaining portion of this  
Agreement  
### _ ARTICLE XIV |  
### WAGE RATES, CLASSIFICATIONS AND FRINGE BENEFIT  
### FUNDS  
### WAGE RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS  
The following hourly wage rates shall apply to the following classifications on work covered  
by the terms of this Agreement and become effective on the following dates:  
Classification Base Wage Rate Effective  
GROUP 1 07/01/04 07/01/05 07/01/06  
Increase  
$22.86 $24.02 $1.65 per hour  
Drivers of dump trucks (less than 12 yds water  
level), drivers of trucks (legal payload capacity  
less than 15 tons), water and fuel truck drivers  
under 2,500 gal., pickup driver, service station  
attendant, teamster equipment (highest rate paid  
for dual craft operation), warehousemen, drivers  
of busses on site used for transportation of up to  
sixteen (16) passengers.  
   
GROUP 2 | $22.97 $24.12 $1.65 per hour  
Drivers of dump trucks (12 yds but less than 16  
yds water level), drivers of trucks (legal payload  
capacity between 15 and 20 tons), drivers of  
transit mix trucks (under 3 yds), dumpcrete trucks  
(less than 6 1/2 yds water level), gas and oil  
pipeline working truck drivers, including winch  
truck and all sizes of trucks, water and fuel truck  
drivers (2,500 gal to 4,000 gal), truck greaser,  
drivers of busses (on jobsite used for  
transportation of sixteen (16) or more  
33  
ee Pe  
passengers), warehouse clerk.  
GROUP 3 $23.18 $24.33 $1.65 per hour  
Drivers of dump trucks (16 yds up to and  
including 22 yds water level), drivers of trucks  
(legal payload cap. 20 tons but less than 25 tons),  
drivers of dumpster trucks, drivers of transit-mix  
trucks (3 yds but less than 6 yds), dumpcrete  
trucks (6 1/2 yds water level and over), fork Sift  
driver, Ross Carrier driver, highway water and fuel  
drivers (4,00! gallon but less than 6,000 gallon),  
stock room clerk, tireman.  
GROUP 4 $23.36 $24.51 $1.65 per hour  
Drivers of transit-mix trucks (6 yds or more),  
drivers of dump trucks (over 22 yds water level),  
drivers of trucks (legal payload capacity 25 tons  
and over), drivers of fuel and water trucks (6,000  
gallon and over).  
GROUP 5 $23.51 $24.66 $ 1.65 per hour  
Drivers of trucks and trailers in combination (six  
axles or more).  
GROUP 6 $23.86 $25.01 $1.65 per hour  
All Off-road Equipment, Truck Repairmen,  
Transport Drivers and Drivers of Road Oil  
Spreader Trucks, DW 10 and DW 20 Euclid-type  
equipment Letourneau pulls, Terra Cobras and  
similar types of equipment, also PB and similar  
type trucks when performing work within the  
Teamster jurisdiction, regardless of types of  
attachment, including power units pulling off-  
highway belly dumps in tandem.  
34  
All off road equipment for the purposes of this Agreement, shall mean any equipment or  
combination of unladen equipment which cannot be licensed for normal or regular highway  
use because of width, height or length limitations when measuring the equipment or  
combination as it is being operated.  
### FOREMAN’ S RATE  
The Foreman’ s rate shall be one dollar ($1.00) per hour more than the highest wage rate  
over which the Foreman has supervision. This provision shall also apply to Warehouse  
Foreman.  
Any Employee designated as Foreman who is required to supervise other Foremen shall  
be paid fifty cents ($.50) more per hour than the foreman supervised.  
### ZONE PAY  
Work performed on public works projects shall be paid at the wage rates shown in Article |  
XI, 1, 1(a) In addition to the Base Wage Rates shown in this Article XIV.  
The Union reserves the right to allocate a portion of the wage rate to the Health and  
Welfare Fund, vacation fund and/or the Pension Fund during the term of this Agreement,  
by giving the Employers not less than sixty (60) days notice prior to July 1 of each year.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### FRINGE BENEFIT FUNDS  
The following fringe benefits shall apply on ali work covered by the terms of this  
Agreement:  
Effective July 1, 2004 Effective Aug. 1, 2004  
HEALTH CARE PLAN $3.21 per hour $4.21 per hour  
DENTAL/VISION COVERAGE = $0.36 per hour $0.36 per hour  
VACATION $1.75 per hour $2.10 per hour  
RETIREES MEDICAL $0.35 per hour $0.35 per hour  
A Health and Welfare Fund known.as the Teamsters Local No. 631 Security Fund for  
Southern Nevada has been established by an Agreement and Deciaration of Trust, and  
subsequently amended by the parties. The Employers agree to abide by said Agreement  
and of Trust and, further, to make payments to the Fund. Participation by the  
Employers in said extensions thereof or for the period workmen are employed under the  
35  
terms of this Agreement. The Employers accept the Trustees appointed by the  
Associations as their Trustees.  
The Employer agrees that all workers that have been employed by the Employer for at  
least two (2) consecutive years and who incurs an on the job injury and who receives  
temporary total disability payments from the Employer’ s worker's compensation, insurer,  
and after the worker has exhausted his/her hour bank with the Security Fund, shall  
continue to have up to thirty (30) days of contributions made on their behalf to the  
Teamsters Local No. 631 Security Fund for Southern Nevada, at the rate required by this  
Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### TRAINING TRUST  
TRAINING TRUST Effective July 1, 2004 Effective August 1, 2004  
$ 0.40 per hour $0.55 per hour  
The Union recognizes the need and desirability to meet the need for skilled  
labor. Accordingly, the Employer and the Union hereby agree to establish a Training Trust  
which shall be responsible for Journeyman upgrading.  
The Training Trust may establish a Joint Training Committee as may be authorized or  
permitted by the Training Trust Agreement. The Trust may delegate to the Committee  
such responsibilities and authority as is authorized by the Trust Agreement and deemed  
necessary by the Trustees. The Trust and/or Committee may establish such rules, policies  
and procedures as deemed necessary and appropriate for the recruiting, enrollment,  
training and graduation of trainees. A trainee may be removed from training at any period  
of training for violation of any of the Trust’ s or Committee’ s rules, polices and procedures  
including drug and alcohol testing policies. Such removal cancels the classification of  
trainee and the opportunity of the trainee to continue training, whether on the job training  
(OJT), classroom training or other training. In order to provide diversity of training and work  
opportunities, the Trust or Committee shall have full authority to transfer trainees from one  
job or Employer to-another. All transfers and assignments for work shall be issued by the  
Trust or Committee and the referral office must be notified.  
On or after July 1, 2004, any Teamster dispatched to an Employer signatory to this  
Agreement must'have in his possession an OSHA Ten (10) hour card. Any Teamster not  
possessing such card shall not receive the wage increase due on this date until he is so  
certified.  
On or after July 1, 2004, any Teamster dispatched to an Employer signatory to this  
Agreement must be certified by the Training Trust to perform the work in the classification  
36  
he is dispatched under. Any Teamster not so certified shall not be eligible to be listed in  
the dispatch computer for that particular piece of equipment.  
The parties agree to abide by and be bound by the rules, regulations, and standards of the  
Southern Nevada Teamsters Construction Industry Training Trust (Local 631) of Nevada  
### (SNTCITT).  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### VACATION TRUST  
VACATION SAVINGS Effective July 1, 2004: $1.75 per hour  
Effective August 1, 2004: $2.10 per hour  
Each Employer shall add $1.75/2.10 per hour to the Employee’s gross wages and then  
shall subtract 1.75/2.10 per hour from the Employee's net wages as Vacation Savings. The  
deduction for Vacation Savings shall be sent on a monthly tra nsmittal form to a designated  
depository. This addition and deduction shall be made on all Employees covered under  
this Agreement. The monthly transmittal shall include all payroll weeks ending within the  
calendar month. On the monthly transmittal form, the following information conceming  
each Employee shall be set forth in separate columns:  
. Name of Employee  
_ Social Security number of each Employee  
_ Number of hours worked  
_ Total amount of vacation savings deduction  
_ Gross pay for each Employee  
oom  
  
The monthly transmittal forms shall be furnished to the Employer who shall set forth  
thereon all information requested by the instructions and retumn the full number of copies,  
after retaining one (1) copy for his files. The fund shall pay for the administrative expenses  
incurred in the operation of the Vacation Savings plan, other than those incurred within the  
individual’ s own office.  
Employer Reports: The parties recognize and acknowledge that the regular prompt  
payments to the Vacation Savings Pian is essential. Each transmittal to the Vacation  
Savings Plan shall be made promptly and in any event on or before the 20" day of the  
month following in which deductions were made. If not paid in full, it shall be delinquent.  
Failure on the part of any Employer to make prompt payments shall be deemed to be a  
breach of the collective bargaining agreement by such Employer and in such event the  
Union shall bring action against the Employer in law or in equity, or the Union may us  
economic action to either compel the performance of this Agreement, as well as th  
37  
collective bargaining agreement. In the event of death of the depositor, the balance of the  
deposit shall be paid to such person or persons entitled thereto upon submission of  
necessary proof. |  
SUPPLEMENTAL DUES CHECK-OFF: The third party administrator of the Vacation  
Savings Plan shall check off and remit to the Union hourly dues for all Employees who  
have executed and furnished to the administrator a written authorization from the amounts  
received on behalf of each Employee. Such Union dues shall be in a uniform hourly  
amount designated by the Union. The Union shall bear the responsibility for obtaining the  
written authorization from the Employee and furnishing the authorization to the  
administrator. Such payments shall be transmitted from the administrator to the Union no  
later than the 20" day of the month following the month in which the deductions for the  
Vacations Savings Plan were made. !n the event any Employee shall register a complaint  
with the administrator alleging that the Employee's Union dues are being improperly  
deducted, the administrator will make no further deductions of the Employee's dues. Such  
dispute shall then be reviewed with the Employee by a representative of the Union and a  
representative of the administrator to determine the legitimacy of the complaint.  
### , | ARTICLE  
### PENSION PLAN  
A Pension Fund known as the Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund has  
been established and the Empioyers agree to abide by said Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust and to make payments to the Fund in the amount designated below. Participation by  
the Employers in said Trust shall be for the duration of this Agreement and any renewals or  
extensions thereof or for the period workmen are employed under the terms of this  
Agreement.  
Each Employer who is covered by this Agreement shail contribute to the Western  
Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund the amount designated below for each  
Employee covered by this Agreement for each hour worked.  
The parties agree effective July 1, 2004 total contributions to the Western Conference of  
Teamsters Pension Trust Fund shall be $4.99 per hour. The parties agree effective August  
1, 2004 total contributions to the Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund  
shall be $5.24 per hour. Effective July 1, 2005 the total contribution to the Western  
Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund will be $5.74 per hour. The contributions  
required to provide the Program for Enhanced Early Retirements will not be taken into  
consideration for benefit accrual purposes under the Plan. The additional contribution for  
the PEER must at all times, so long as the Employer continues to participate in the basic  
pension plan, be 6.5% of the basic contribution and cannot be decreased or discontinued  
at any time.  
38  
if in subsequent years the Employees elect to put a portion of their wage increase into the  
Pension Fund, provisions shall be made for contributions to keep the PEER Plan funded.  
### | ARTICLE XIX  
### CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND INDUSTRY  
### ADVANCEMENT FUND  
A. The Union recognizes that the Association needs to expend certain sums to  
administer the labor contract on behalf of signatory Employers and promote  
programs designed to improve the construction industry. Each individual  
Employer covered by this Agreement will contribute the sum of five cents ($0.05)  
per hour for each hour compensated to Teamsters employed by such individual  
Employer under this Agreement to the Contract Administration and Industry  
Advancement Fund.  
B. For the purpose of administering this Fund, the individual Employer by becoming  
signatory to this Agreement does hereby designate the ASSOCIATED  
GENERALCONTRACTORS (AGC) to act as his agent in all matters conceming the  
Fund. The AGC shall receive all Contract Administration.and Industry Advancement  
Funds contributed by AGC proxied members.  
C. The majority Association shall receive on a proportional basis Contract  
Administration and Industry Advancement Funds not proxied or designated to a  
Contractor Association.  
For the purpose of this Article the following definitions shall apply. The term  
Contractor Association shall refer to a Contractor Association whose members have  
selected the Association by written proxy to represent the members in matters of  
collective bargaining.  
### ARTICLE XX  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
The Employer and the Union agree that in accordance with applicable laws, neither of them  
will discriminate against any Employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race,  
religion, age, color, sex, national origin, or disability. This commitment applies to hiring,  
placement, upgrading, transfer or demotion, recruitment, promotion, rates of pay, and other  
forms of compensation. .  
39  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Employer shall have the right  
to take any and all actions necessary to comply with Federal, State or Local Government  
Laws, Ordinances or Regulations and Lawful Requirements set forth in Proposal  
documents by users of construction services with respect to providing equal employment  
opportunity.  
Anytime the masculine gender is used in this Agreement it shall also apply to the female  
gender. All provisions of this Agreement shall apply to’ male and female Employees alike.  
### ARTICLE  
### SECURITY BOND AND PAYMENT FOR  
### FRINGE BENEFIT CONTRIBUTIONS  
A. Any Employer who is adjudged a habitual delinquent in the payment of any  
contribution to any Trust fund established under this Agreement by the Trustees  
of the Fund, shall be required to post a cash or surety bond in an amount up to  
$50,000. Such bond shall be deposited with custodian designated by the  
Trustees within ten (10) days of the notice to the Employer requiring the  
Employer to post such bond. The duration for which such bond shail remain in  
force shall be determined by the Trustees. The failure of an Employer to post  
such bond shall be considered a violation of this Agreement and the Union shall  
have the right to take economic action including, but not limited to, the right of  
withholding services of Teamsters, and refusal to dispatch Teamsters to said  
Employer.  
B. All payments required to be made by each Employer to the Teamsters Security  
Fund, Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund, Training Trust  
and Vacation Trust shall be due and payable to the appropriate Trust Fund no  
later than the first (1°) day of the month for all hours worked by Employees  
covered by this Agreement during the preceding month. An Employer who has  
not made such payments by the twentieth (20") day of the month shall be  
considered as in violation of this Agreement and a delinquent Employer. The  
Grievance and Arbitration procedure contained in Article V shall not apply to any  
cases involving the failure of an Employer to pay fringe benefit contributions as  
required herein. The Trustees through the Administrative office of the  
appropriate fringe benefit trust fund shall advise each Association party to this  
Agreement and the Union of current delinquent accounts. Within five (5) days of  
receipt of such notification, the Union shall give written notice by Certified Mail or  
telegram (with a copy to the General Contractor) to pay the delinquent amounts  
due all Trust Funds within four (4) working days from the receipt of such notice.  
The Union shall withhold services from any and all jobs of such delinquent  
40  
Employer or Subcontractor if proper payment is not made.  
### ARTICLE  
### SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS  
Supplemental Agreements may be negotiated covering Signatory Employers engaged in  
commercial sand and grave! operations to allow for competitive wage/fringe amounts  
prevailing in that industry, special conditions for-hire heavy haul transports, demolition  
work, landscaping, tankers, and truck repairman trainee.  
### ARTICLE XXill  
### TERM - TERMINATION - RENEWAL  
,’  
This Agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 2004 and shall remain in full force and  
effect to and including June 30, 2007 and continue in full force and effect from year to year  
thereafter unless canceled or modified as herein provided. Either party to the Agreement  
may give written notice by certified mail to the other of a desire to change, modify or  
terminate the Agreement no more than one hundred-twenty (120) days nor less than sixty  
(60) days prior to June 30, 2007 or June 30 of any succeeding year.  
The Union agrees that in the event that either party should exercise its right under the first.  
paragraph of this Section, the Union will for a period of sixty (60) days prior to June 30 of  
any such year, bargain with the Employer with respect to all wage rates, working conditions  
and hours of employment for this work herein covered and the Employer agrees to bargain  
in the same manner. .  
DATED this //7H day of 2005  
### FOR THE UNION FOR THE EMPLOYER  
### Teamsters Loca! Union No. 631 ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
Affiliated with the International WA _  
Brotherhood of Teamsters BVA  
41  
By: _ By.  
Its: its  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
   
Between  
### TEAMSTERS LOCAL 631 and ASSOCIATION OF GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
When an Employer has a large call for drivers defined as four (4) or more, the Employer  
and Teamsters Local 631, herein after referred to as the Union, will meet to review the lists  
to determine the number of qualified drivers available to fill the dispatch.  
The Employer and the Union will meet to discuss the current members that are not  
available for re-hire dispatch and those who have refused dispatches to particular  
Employers. .  
'f the Union believes that the call by name process agreed upon in the negotiations has  
allowed Employers to bypass certain “A” list Employees, a meeting between the parties  
will be scheduled to discuss the reasons for bypassing the “A” list member.  
42  
### APPENDIX A  
### DRUG/ALCOHOL TESTING/REHABILITATION PROGRAM  
It is the goal of the Employers and the Union to establish, maintain and provide a safe,  
healthy and alcohol/drug-free work environment for all Employees at all places of work. To  
ensure that we achieve that goal, the following policy which meets the Federal Motor  
Carrier Safety Regulations, as more fully set forth in Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations  
Part 40, has been adopted. |  
Due to the fact that the U.S. Department of Transportation mandates the Alcohol/Drug free  
operation of alt Commercial Vehicles, the following policy shall apply:  
If the Union is notified by an Employer that an Employee or a workman dispatched for work  
has been terminated or rejected for employment due to a positive result of an alcohol/drug  
test, that person shall not be allowed to be placed on the Out of Work list, at the Union  
Hall, until he/she can produce, to the Union, a valid negative test and proof of  
contact with a substance abuse professional. |  
Note: Whenever drug/alcohol test is used in the program it means DOT approved  
drug/alcohol test.  
Also, the Employer will not retain Employees, who, after a positive test and completion of  
rehabilitation, again test positive.  
Prohibited Activity  
The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, sale, possession or use of an illegal  
drug (as defined in 49CFR Part 40) is strictly prohibited, on all Employer premises or other  
locations at which the Employee is performing work, or in any Employer owned or leased  
motor vehicle, or anywhere during working hours and shall be grounds for immediate  
termination.  
Drivers may not be on-duty or drive, if they are using or in possession of alcohol that is not  
manifested as part of the shipment. Nor shall they perform safety sensitive fu nctions within  
four hours after consuming alcohol.  
43  
Applicabili  
With few exceptions, drivers required to have a commercial drivers license (CDL) are  
subject to the controlled substance and alcohol testing rules. A CDL is required for drivers  
operating a vehicle in excess of 26,000 pounds GVWR, designed to carry 26 or more  
passengers (including the driver), or of any size, which is used in the transportation of a  
placardable amount of hazardous material. This extends those currently covered by the  
rule to include both inter- and intrastate truck and motor coach operations, including owner-  
operators/independent contractors.  
Implementation  
The alcohol and controlled substances testing rules shall be implemented as follows:  
Large Employers (50 or more drivers as of March 17, 1994) must implement the  
requirements of the rule beginning January 1, 1995.  
Small Employers (0-49 drivers as of March 17, 1994) B must implement the requirements  
of the rule beginning January 1, 1996.  
Employer’ s Drug and Alcohol Policy Requirements  
In order to have a successful drug and alcoho! testing program, itis important drivers know  
what is expected of them. The Federal Highway Administration requires each Employer  
provide educational materials that explain the requirements of the alcoho} and drug testing  
regulations and the Employer’ s policies and procedures with respect to meeting those  
requirements.  
The Employer must ensure a copy of these materials is distributed to each driver (who  
shall sign for receipt of the documents), prior to the start of alcoho! and controlled  
substances testing. The materials required to be made available to drivers shall include, at  
a minimum, detailed discussion of the following:  
1. The identity of the person designated by the Employer to answer driver questions  
about the materials.  
2. Which drivers are subject to the alcohol misuse and controlled substance  
requirements.  
3. Explanation of what constitutes a safety sensitive function, so as to make clear what  
period of work day the driver is required to be in compliance.  
4. Specific information concerning driver conduct that is prohibited.  
5 The circumstances under which a driver will be tested for alcohol and/or controlled  
substances.  
6. The procedures that will be used to test for the present of alcohol and controlled  
substances.  
7. The requirement that a driver submit to alcohol and controlled substance tests.  
8. An explanation of what constitutes a refusal to submit to an alcohol or controlled  
substance test.  
9. The consequences for drivers found to have violated the prohibitions of this rule,  
including the immediate removal of the driver from safety sensitive functions.  
40. The consequences for drivers found to have an alcoho! concentration level of 0.02  
or greater, but less than 0.04.  
44 Information concerning the effects of alcohol and controlled substances use on an  
individual’ s health, work, and personal life. Signs and symptoms of an alcoho! or  
controlled substances problem, and available methods of intervening when an  
alcoho! or a control substances problem is suspected, including confrontation,  
referral to any Employee assistance program and/or referral to management.  
Types of Testing  
The Employer wiil require drug testing of the following types in accordance with Federal  
Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, as set forth in 49CFR Part 40. Alcohol testing is required  
in accordance with FMCS part 382.  
1. Pre-Employment  
2. Post-accident  
3. Random  
4, Reasonable suspicion  
5. Return-to-Duty  
6 Follow-up  
Refusal or failure to submit to alcohol/drug testing will automatically be considered a  
positive test result, and the driver will be declared medically unqualified to drive for the  
Employer. Such drivers will be subject to disciplinary action.  
45  
The Employer shall pay all costs for all required Alcohol/Drug tests, and in the case of  
present Employees (those Employees not taking a pre-employment alcohol/drug screen),  
the Employer shall pay for all time spent at the place of such test or tests and time in  
transit. Employees shall not be required to take examinations during working hours without  
pay for time so consumed.  
Leave of absence prior to testing  
if an Employee comes forth before being tested, or being notified on a random selection  
that a testis required, and admits usage, the Employer will. allow the individual the privilege  
of going through the alcohol/drug rehabilitation program, at the expense of the Employee,  
and the Employee will be eligible for rehire after treatment, subject to FMCS regulations.  
An Employee shall be permitted to take a leave of absence for the purpose of undergoing  
treatment pursuant to an approved program for alcoholism or drug abuse prior to testing, or  
being notified on a random selection that a test is required.  
Such leave of absence shall be granted on a one time basis and shall be for a maximum of  
sixty (60) days unless extended by mutual agreement.  
Employees upon returning to work from a leave of absence for alcoholism or drug use shall  
be required to submit to testing, in accordance with the FMCS Regulations. Failure to do  
so will subject the Employee to immediate discharge.  
1. Pre-employment Aicoho! and Controlled Substance Testing  
Prior to the first time a driver performs safety-sensitive functions (any of those on-duty  
functions listed in the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations section 395.2 On-duty time,  
paragraphs 2 through 7 B such time spent driving vehicle, inspecting vehicle, loading  
vehicle, etc.) for an Employer, the driver must submit to testing for alcoho! and controlled  
substances.  
No Employer shall allow a driver to perform a safety-sensitive function unless, the result of  
an alcohol test indicates an alcohol level of less than 0.02, and the Employer has received  
a controlled substance test result from the Medical Review Officer (MRO) indicating a  
verified negative result. |  
Exceptions:  
An Employer is not required to administer a pre-employment alcohol test if the driver has  
undergone a DOT required alcohol test within the previous 6 months, with a result  
indicating a blood alcohol level below 0.04. However, the Employer must ensure that no  
46  
prior Employer of the driver has record of violations of any DOT alcohol misuse rules for  
the driver in the previous 6 months.  
In addition, an Employer is not required to administer a pre-employment controlled  
substance test if the following conditions are met:  
The driver must have participated in a drug testing program meeting the requirements of  
this rule within the previous 30 days; and  
While participating in this program the driver must have either been tested for controlled  
substances in the previous six (6) months, or participated ina random alcohol/drug testing  
program for the previous twelve (12) months; and  
The Employer must ensure that no prior Employer of the driver has record of violations of  
any DOT controlled substance use rule for the driver in the previous thirty-six (36) months.  
2. Post-Accident Alcoho! and controlled Substances Testing  
As soon as practicable following an accident involving a commercial motor vehicle, each  
Employer shall test for alcohol and controlled substances of each surviving driver when  
either:  
The accident involved a fatality; or  
The driver receives a citation under state or local law for a moving traffic violation arising  
from the accident.  
For the purpose of this rule an accident is defined as an accident involving a commercial  
motor vehicle in which there is either a fatality, an injury treated away from the scene, or a  
vehicle is required to be towed from the scene.  
According to the DOT rules, the testing should be conducted within two hours of the  
accident. Ifa testis not administered within this time period, the Employer must document  
the cause of the delay. Under no circumstances shall post accident testing be conducted  
beyond eight (8) hours after the accident for alcohol or thirty-two (32) hours after the  
accident for controlled substances.  
Any driver required to take a post-accident alcohol/drug test under the DOT rules shall not  
use alcoho! for eight (8) hours following the accident, or until he/she undergoes a post-  
accident alcohol/drug test, whichever occurs first.  
Any driver who is subject to post accident testing must remain available for testing.  
However, the driver is not prohibited from leaving the scene of the accident for the time  
47  
period necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident or to obtain necessary  
emergency medical care.  
3. Random Testin  
Employees subject to random alcohol/drug testing shall be selected using a method that is  
scientifically valid. The selection process must ensure that each covered Employee has an  
equal chance of being tested, each time selections are made. The current random testing  
rate is a minimum of twenty-five (25%) percent of the Employees in the selection pool for  
alcohol, and a minimum of fifty (50%) percent of the Employees in the selection pool for  
controlled substances.  
lf the results of the driver’ s alcohol test indicate a blood alcoho! concentration of 0.02 or  
greater, but less than 0.04, the driver shall not be permitted to perform safety-sensitive  
functions until,the start of the driver’ s next regularly scheduled duty period, but not less  
than 24 hours following the administration of the test.  
Owner-Operators  
An Employer who Employees only himself/herself as a driver must implement an alcohol  
and controlled substances testing program that includes more persons than himself/herself  
as covered Employees in the random testing pool. Thus an owner-operator essentially  
must join a consortium.  
4. Reasonable Suspicion Testing  
An Employer must require a covered Employee to submit to reasonable suspicion testing if  
the Employer has reasonable suspicion to believe that the Employee violated the  
provisions of the DOT rules.  
The determination must be based on specific, explainable, observations  
concerning the Employee’ s appearance, behavior, speech or body odors. In addition,  
supervisors or other company representatives who are responsible for determining whether  
reasonable suspicion testing is necessary must have completed training on how to detect  
the indicators of alcohol/drug abuse.  
Awritten record shall be made of the observations leading to a controlled substances test,  
and signed by the supervisor or company official who made the observations.  
48  
if the results of the driver’ s alcoho! test indicate a blood alcohol concentration of 0.02 or  
greater, but less than 0.04, the driver shall not be permitted to perform safety-sensitive  
functions until the start of the driver’ s next regularly scheduled duty period, but not less  
than 24 hours following the administration of the test.  
Note: It has been substantiated that one beer can produce a blood alcoh |  
concentration of 0.02 or greater.  
Concentrations of a drug at or above the following levels shall be considered a positive test  
result when using the initial immunoassay drug screening test:  
Initial Test  
   
Level-Nanogram/Mililiter (hereafter referred to as  
   
   
Marijuana metabolite 100  
Cocaine metabolite 300  
Opiate metabolite 300  
Phencyclidine .25  
Amphetamines 1000  
*95 nc/ml is immunoassay-specific for free morphine.  
Concentrations of a drug at or above the following levels shall be considered a positive test  
result when performing a confirmatory Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectophotomotry test  
on a urine specimen that tested positive using a technologically different initial screening  
method:  
   
   
   
Confirmatory Test Test  
Marijuana metabolite 15  
Cocaine metabolite .150  
Opiates:  
Morphine 300  
Codeine . 300:  
Phencyclidine 25  
Amphetamines:  
Amphetamines . 500  
Methamphetamines . 500  
Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylicacid  
Bezolyecgonine 25 nc/ml if immunoassay-specific for free morphine  
49  
Positive drug test results will be reviewed by a Medical Review Officer (MRO) to determine  
whether the driver is medically qualified to drive.  
if there is a positive test result, the MRO will give the Employee tested an opportunity to  
discuss the results and provide documentation of legally prescribed medication.  
Note: Employees taking prescribed medication that has not been specifically  
prescribed for their use, will be considered to be using a controlled substance.  
The MRO will contact the Employee to determine if the positive test is the result of the  
Employee using a controlled substance. If it is determined the Employee is unlawfully  
using a controlled substance, the MRO will notify the contact person designated by the  
Employer, who will notify the Employee as soon as possible. At this time, the Employee  
will be placed upon suspension not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, and must contact a  
substance abuse professional.  
Employees having a negative drug test result shall, upon their request, receive a card of  
memorandum stating that the test was negative. Copies of confirmed positive test results  
will be kept in the person’ s file for a minimum of five (5) years.  
Positive test results will not be released to any unauthorized person without the  
Employee’ s written consent.  
The Employer shall maintain a written record of all individuals, companies, agencies or  
regulatory bodies that request to examine any test results.  
The Medical Review Officer (MRO) is a licensed physician (medical doctor or doctor of  
osteopathy) responsible for receiving laboratory result generated by an Employer’ s drug  
testing program. The MRO shall have knowledge of substance abuse disorders and have  
appropriate medical training to interpret and evaluate an individual’ s confirmed positive  
test result, together with his/her medical history and any other relevant biomedical  
information.  
Release of Alcohol and Controlled Substances Test Information by Previous Employers  
An Employer may obtain from any previous Employer of a driver, provided the driver has  
given his/her written consent, any information concerning the driver’ s participation ina  
controlled substances and alcohol testing program.  
An Employer must obtain and review the information listed below from any Employer the  
driver performed safety sensitive functions for the previous two years. The information  
50  
must be obtained and reviewed no later than 14 days after the first time a driver performs  
safety sensitive functions. The information obtained must include:  
4. information on the driver’ s alcohol test in which a breath alcoho! concentration of  
0.04 or greater was indicated.  
2. Information on the driver’ s controlled substances test in which a positive result was  
indicated.  
3. Any refusal to submit to a required alcoho! or controlled substance test.  
lf the driver stops performing safety sensitive functions for the Employer before  
expiration of the 14 day period or before the Employer has obtained the information  
listed above, the Employer must still obtain the information.  
The prospective Employer must provide to each of the driver’ s previous Employers  
of the past two years a written authorization from the driver for release ‘Of the  
required information. The release of this information may take the form of personal  
interviéws, telephone interviews, letters, or any other method that ensures  
confidentiality. Each Employer must maintain a written, confidential record with  
respect to each past Employer contacted.  
The Employer may not use a driver to perform safety sensitive functions if the  
Employer obtains information indicating the driver has tested positive for controjied  
substances, tested at or above 0.04 alcohol concentration, or refused to test unless  
the Employer has evidence the driver has been evaluated by a substance abuse  
professional, completed any require counseling, passed a return-to-duty test, and  
been subject to follow-up testing.  
Disciplinary Action  
First Offense  
For a positive result to any alcohol or controlled substance test, the Employer may  
issue a suspension for a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days and there  
will be a mandatory enrollment in a rehabilitative alcohol or controlled substance  
program (at the expense of the Employee), and follow-up testing for up to sixty (60)  
months from return to work. Failure to complete a prescribed program will result in  
possible termination.  
51  
Second Offense  
   
Immediate Termination  
Rehabilitation  
   
The Union, through the Health and Welfare program, offers Employees with  
coverage, an Employee Assistance Program. Upon notification of a positive result  
to an alcohol test above 0.04 or a positive result to any controlled substance test,  
the Employee must immediately contact the Employee Assistance Program (either  
by calling the provider themselves or by contacting the Union Business Agent), and  
arrange for an appointment with the substance abuse professional. The substance  
abuse professional will then determine what treatment is required, and will schedule  
the required counseling.  
It will be the responsibility of the Employee to provide documentation evidencing the  
successful completion of the rehabilitative program.  
52  
   
### TEAMSTERS  
Effective July 1, 2005  
  
Focal #631  
3: se Wage Rate  
I. Base Rate 07/01/05 7/01/06.  
| $24.02 $1.65 increase per hr.  
his proup includes drivers of dump trucks (less than 12 yds water level full), driv-  
as of trucks (legal payload. capacity less than 15 tons), water and fuel truck drivers  
wider 2,500 gal, pick up driver, service station attendant, Teamster equipment  
rate paid for dual craft operation), warehousemen, drivers of buses on site  
_ eed for transportation of up to sixteen (16) passengers.  
   
Broup II Base Rate 07/01/05 - 07/01/06  
| $24.12 $1.65 per hr.  
of dump trucks (12) yds but less than 16 ges water level full, drivers of  
muCKS (cen payload capacity between 15 and 20 tons, drivers of transit mix  
pecks (under 3 yds.), dumpcrete trucks (less than 6 1/2 yds water level full), gas  
aed oil pipeline working truck drivers, including winch truck and all sizes of  
water and fuel truck drivers (2,500 gal to 4,000 gal.), truck greaser, drivers  
if on jobsite used for transportation of 16 or more passengers, warehouse  
er  
a  
!  
an’  
     
     
      
   
    
    
II Base Rate 07/01/05 07/01/06  
| $24.33 $1.65 per hr.  
of dump trucks 16 yds up to and including 22 yds water level, full, drivers  
wi trucks legal payload cap. 20 tons but less than 25 tons, drivers of dumpster  
gucks, drivers of transit-mix trucks xyes but less than 6 yds, dumpcrete trucks 6  
a(2 yds water level full and over, forklifts driver, Ross Carrier driver, highway wa-  
= and fuel drivers 4,001 gal but less than 6,000 gal, stock room clerk, tireman.  
   
Base Rate 07/01/05 07/01/06  
$24.5] $1.65 per hr.  
| ivers of transit-mix trucks 6 yds or more, Drivers of dump trucks over 22yds  
mater level full, Drivers of truc legal payload capacity 25 tons and over, drivers  
fuel and water trucks 6,000 gal and over. |  
   
Base Rate 07/01/05 07/01/06  
$24.66 $1.65 per hr.  
mrivers of trucks and trailers in combination (six axles or more).  
37  
   
   
### TEAMSTERS (CONT.)  
Group VI Base Rate 07/01/05 07 /01/06  
$25.01 $1.65 per hr.  
All off-road Equipment, Truck Repairmen, Transport Drivers and Drivers of  
Road Oil Spreader Trucks, DW 10 and DW 20 Euclid type equi ment Letour- |  
neau pulls, Terra Cobras and similar types of equipment, also PB and similar  
e trucks when performing work within the Teamster regardless  
Oo apes of attachment, including power units pulling off-highway belly dumps  
in tandem.  
t  
Fringe Benefits  
Vacation $2.10  
Health & Welfare $4.57  
Pension $5.74  
Training $0.55  
Retirees Health/Welfare $0.35  
Contract Admin. $0.05  
Check: $1.15 increase  
Employers are now allowed to use oral swab test for pre-employment.  
### ALL RATES ARE FOR LAS VEGAS; FOR OUTLYING AREAS,  
### REFER TO APPROPRIATE LABOR AGREEMENT.  
 