   
K $90  
1500  
7/1/03 — ¢f30f 8  
2003 CARPENTERS 2008 *”  
### LABOR AGREEMENT  
### UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF  
### CARPENTERS  
### AND JOINERS OF AMERICA  
### LOCAL UNION NOS.  
971  
34, 1789, 2035  
### NORTHERN NEVADA  
   
Furnished By:  
### NEVADA CHAPTER  
The Associated General Contractors  
of America, Inc.  
### INDEX  
### CARPENTER AGREEMENT  
Section  
Apprentice Ratios & Wages & Benefit Schedules Vv  
Foreman Ratio & Wages V  
Geographical Area Covered l  
Grievance Procedure XIil  
Holidays IX  
Hours of Work VIII  
e Lunch Time  
e Over-time  
e Shift Work  
Jurisdictional Disputes II  
Payment of Wages XI  
Pre-job Conference XVII  
Prevailing Wages / Public Works V  
Recognition I  
Saving Clause XVI  
Show- up Time X  
Stewards / Business Representatives XI  
Subcontracting Ill  
Term of Agreement XVIII  
Tools XIV  
Page  
16  
17  
16  
23  
20  
Trust Funds & Plans VI (VI, A)  
e Apprenticeship  
e Health & Welfare  
e Pension  
e Vacation/Savings Plan  
e Supplemental Dues  
e Carpenters/Contractors/Cooperation/Committee  
e Industry Advancement  
e Trust Contributions Attachment (1)  
Wage Scale and Classifications V  
Working Condittons XV  
e Water/Toilets  
e On the Job Injunes  
e Safety Equipment/Clothing  
e Breaks  
Work Jurisdiction II  
Work Preservation IV  
Zone Pay Vu  
### APPENDICES  
Hiring Provisions A  
Piledrivers B  
Light Commercial Construction C  
e Coverage  
e Fringe Benefits  
e Wages  
e Apprentices  
Residential Construction D  
Drug & Alcohol Policy E  
e Drug Testing Compensation  
Job Site Check-In Tool List Attachment (a)  
21  
15  
24  
26  
26  
28  
29  
32  
### PREAMBLE  
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into on this First day of July, 2003 by and between the NEVADA  
### CHAPTER OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA, and on behalf of its  
members, hereinafter referred to as “Employer”, and the Southwest Regional Council of Carpenters, and  
its affiliated local union 34, hereinafter referred to as “UNION”.  
### SECTION I  
### RECOGNITION  
The Employer has satisfied itself that the Union represents a majority of Employees performing  
work covered by this agreement and thereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining  
representative of all employees of the Employer hereinafter classified over whom the Union has  
jurisdiction.  
The Union recognizes the Employer as the sole and exclusive bargaining Representative for their  
respective members who have authorized the Employer to represent them. A list of such authorizations  
has been furnished to the Union and the Employer agrees to immediately notify the Union when any  
authorizations have been canceled or new authorizations have been executed.  
This Agreement shall bind each and every Employer who has authorized the Association to  
represent them with the same force and effect as if the Agreement were entered into by each Member  
individually. The Employer shall be and continue to remain liable under this Agreement for during the  
term irrespective of whether such members shall resign from the Association prior to the expiration date  
of this Agreement and such liability shall be deemed to have survived the termination of such  
membership and remain in force for and during the term of this Agreement.  
It is the intention of the parties to create a collective bargaining agreement within the meaning of  
the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, and the unit covered by this Agreement is a voluntanly  
created multtemployer collective bargaining unit.  
Notwithstanding any provision of the Master Labor Agreement or this Agreement, the individual  
employer agrees that upon a showing by the Union or any of its affiliates a majority of the individual  
employer’s shop employees, if any, have designated the Union and/or any of its affiliates as their  
representative for collective bargaining purposes, the individual employer shall recognize the union  
and/or its affiliates as the collective bargaining representative of its shop employees and shall agree to  
negotiate all wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment appropriate for their shop. Proof of such  
majority representation shall be established by the submission of authorization cards to a neutral third  
person who shall compare the signatures with appropriate employer records. The individual employer  
shall fully cooperate in such review upon demand by the Union or any of its affiliates. This paragraph  
does not apply to Employers’ storage warehouse or yards.  
7/1/03  
### SECTION I  
### WORK JURISDICTION  
A. This Agreement shall provide for the wages, fringe benefits and conditions of employment of  
all employees of the Employer within the recognized jurisdiction of the UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF  
CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA in the State of Nevada, except Clark, Esmeralda, Lincoln  
and Nye Counties and the city of Wendover, Nevada.  
B. The work covered under the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to construction  
in the area above described, including all of the following:  
(1) All building construction, including but not limited to the construction, erection,  
alteration, repair, modification, demolition, addition or improvement in whole or in part of  
any building structure. All rigging of Carpenters’, and Piledrivers’ materials.  
(2) All heavy, highway and engineering construction, including but not limited to the  
construction, improvement, modification and demolition of all or any part of the streets,  
highways, bridges, viaducts, railroads, tunnels, airports, water supply, irrigation, flood  
control and draining systems, sewers and sanitation projects, dams, power houses,  
refineries, aqueducts, canals, river and harbor projects, wharves, docks, breakwaters,  
jetties, quarrying of breakwaters or rip rap stone or operations incidental to such heavy  
construction work and whether such work is above or below the water line level.  
(3) The character of such work covered by this Agreement shall be all carpenter, drywall,  
metal stud, acoustical, and lathing work on such construction within the recognized  
### jurisdiction of the UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS & JOINERS OF  
AMERICA, including but not limited to plastics and such work in connection with new  
methods of construction or use of materials innovated during the term of this Agreement.  
The union may request a work assignment in writing if it feels there 1s some danger of a  
jurisdictional dispute. When requested, an employer will furnish the Union signed letters  
on the letterhead of the individual employer, stating they have employed Carpenters on a  
specific type of work and paid the negotiated scale of wages on any and all jobs which the  
individual employer has performed with Carpenters.  
C. There shall be no cessation or interference in any way with any work of the Employer or any  
individual employer by reason of Jurisdictional Disputes between the Union and any other union  
The parties hereto agree that, where a jurisdictional problem develops involving Unions not  
signatory to this Agreement, the representatives of the Union involved will meet with the representatives  
of the Contractors to resolve the particular problem. Any resolution resulting from such aforementioned  
meeting between the Unions and the Contractors shall be put into effect immediately.  
Jurisdictional disputes which cannot be resolved at the local level shall then be referred to the  
International Unions involved for determination, and the work shall proceed as assigned by the Contractor  
7/1/03  
unti] such determination by the International Union has been confirmed to the disputing Unions and the  
Contractors. The intent of the Section is to clarify that jurisdictional issues are not a contractual liability.  
In the event the Employer becomes a signatory to the Impartial Jurisdictional Disputes Board or its  
successor plan or board, disputes as to jurisdiction of work claimed by other Unions than those affiliated  
with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America shall be referred to and settled in  
accordance with the procedural rules and regulations of the Impartial Jurisdictional disputes Board or its  
successor. A decision rendered by said Impartial Jurisdictional Disputes Board or its successor in any  
given jurisdictional determination shall be implemented immediately by the Employer involved.  
D. This Agreement shall apply to the Employer or his subcontractor on any job site operation.  
E. Any materials fabricated by the employer or his cabinetry subcontractor at an offsite shop,  
located within the territorial jurisdiction of this agreement, shall be done under the terms and conditions  
of this agreement or a specialty shop agreement if applicable.  
### SECTION II  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
A. Definition of a Subcontractor. A Subcontractor 1s defined as any person, other than an  
Employee covered by this Agreement, firm or corporation who agrees orally or in writing, to perform, or  
on belulf of, an individual Employer, any part or portion of the work covered by this Agreement.  
On-Site Work. With respect to omsite work covered by this Agreement, that is, work done or to  
be done at the site of the construction, alteration, painting or repair of a building, structure or other work,  
the Employer agrees that at any particular jobsite all or part of the jobsite work shall be performed by  
Employees who are employed by the Employer and covered by this Agreement.  
In the event some part of the onsite work at any jobsite ts subcontracted, the wage rates, fringe  
benefit rates and other terms of this Agreement shall apply to any subcontractor under contract to, or  
working under contract with such Individual Employer on any on-site work covered by this Agreement  
within five (5) days of entering such subcontract, and prior to commencement of work by the  
subcontractor, and shall specify the name and address of the subcontractor. Notice at a pre-job conference  
shall be deemed written notice under this provision.  
If thereafter the subcontractor becomes delinquent in the payment of any wages, Trust Fund  
contributions, fringe benefit payments, or is not in compliance with the manning provisions, the Union  
shall give prompt written notice of the delinquency or the non-compliance to the Employer and the  
subcontractor. The notice shall specify the names(s) and amount(s) 1f known, of the delinquency.  
When the notice of delinquency is received, the Employer shall pay the amount of the  
subcontractor’s delinquency which has occurred on the Employer’s specific job.  
7/4/03  
3-  
If the Employer fails to give written notice as required in this Section he shall, until notice is  
given, assume liability for any violation of the terms and conditions of this Agreement at that particular  
jobsite or job yard.  
This section may only be enforced by resort to the grievance and arbitration procedures of  
this Agreement, (Section XIII) and the Union may not strike nor picket to enforce the provisions of this  
section or to enforce any arbitration award arising out of the application or interpretation of this section  
except as said award may apply to primary obligations of an Individual Employer.  
No work will be let by piece, contract or lump sum direct with Journeyman or apprentices for  
labor services and carpenter work. On all types of housing, carpenter work in connection with the  
construction of all wall and roof framing, the installation of sub-flooring, exterior sheathing, metal and  
wood sash and doors (except garage doors), all interior trim (excluding sink tops), shall be done by  
properly licensed contractors.  
The Employer and his subcontractors shall refrain from the use of materials which will tend to  
cause discord or disturbance on the jobsite.  
### SECTION IV  
### WORK PRESERVATION COMMITTEE  
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive position  
of the parties within the industry during the term of this Agreement. Consistent with that recognition, the  
parties will continually monitor the effectiveness of this Agreement during its term as may be necessary to  
assure the work opportunities of the employees and the competitive position of the individual employers.  
To implement the intent of this paragraph, the parties to the Agreement may establish a Committee  
composed of three (3) representatives appointed by the Union and three (3) representatives appointed by  
the Employers. This Committee may review requests for changes in the terms and conditions of the  
Agreement that may be necessary to preserve work opportunities for employees and individual employers  
covered by the Agreement. The Committee is authorized to approve and implement such changes as it  
deems to be in the best interest of the parties to the Agreement.  
A project agreement may be negotated under unusual conditions subject to approval of the  
Southwest Regional Council of Carpenters and the Work Preservation Committee.  
7/1/03  
### SECTION V  
### WAGE SCALES  
A. No Employee receiving total compensation (i.e. wages and payments to trust funds for  
Vacation, Health & Welfare, Pensions and subsistence) under an existing agreement between an  
individual Union and any Employer shall suffer any reduction in such compensation by reasons of the  
execution of this Agreement.  
Journeyman  
Savings  
Health & Ins.  
Pension  
Apprenticeship  
Carp/Cont/Comm.  
Industry Prom.  
Total  
July 1, 2004  
July 1, 2005  
July 1, 2006  
July 1, 2007  
benefits.  
10/1/2002  
$23.18  
$ 2.82  
$ 3.07  
§ 2.63  
$ 0.30  
$ 0.10  
$ 0.10  
$32.20  
7/1/2003  
$24.08  
$2.86  
$3.07  
$2.63  
$0.36  
$0.10  
$0.15  
$33.25  
1/1/2004  
$24.08  
$2.86  
$3.30  
$2.36  
$0.40  
$0.10  
$0.15  
$33.25  
   
Negotiated Increases:  
$1.00 to be allocated by the union.  
$0.90 to be allocated by the union.  
$0.75 plus $0.50 maintenance of health benefits.  
$0.75 plus $0.50 maintenance of health benefits.  
Upon sixty days written notice to employers, the Union may reallocate a portion of wages to fringe  
B. On all Federal, State and/or public works projects subject to Davis-Bacon or other prevailing  
wage statutes, the Union agrees to dispatch workers at the Davis-Bacon or other applicable pre-  
determined prevailing wage scale applicable to that area according to the regulations with the fringe  
benefit contributions for Savings, Health & Insurance, Pension, Apprenticeship, Carpenter/Contractor  
Cooperation Committee and Industry Promotion to remain as per this agreement and/or any successor  
agreement.  
C. FOREMAN. The selection of an individual who will be the carpenter foreman is at the sole  
discretion of the employer. It is understood that a foreman shall be an employee employed under the terms  
of this Agreement and the dispatching and hiring provisions of Appendix “A” and shall receive the  
foreman’s differential pay. Such foreman may work with the tools of the trade. Whenever there are seven  
(7) or more carpenter employees, one must be designated as the foreman. For this purpose a Foreman is  
described as a Joumeyman who receives direction from a Superintendent or General Foreman to direct,  
supervise, or instruct any group or crew of carpenters, with the knowledge that he or she is responsible for  
a segment of the project. The hourly wage scale for foremen shall be 10% above the Journeyman rate  
they supervise.  
7/1/03  
   
D. APPRENTICES NOTE: The following percentages of journeyman carpenter wage rates  
and benefit schedules apply only to those apprentices indentured after July 1, 2003. Apprentices  
indentured prior to July 1, 2003 shall receive the following percentages of journeyman carpenter wage  
rates and their previous schedule of benefits. Employers may hire one apprentice for the first journeyman  
on the job and one apprentice for each three (3) journeymen thereafter.  
Schedule of Periods Percentage § Benefit Code  
(1st year) (1") 6 months (minimum 600 hours) 50% *(1)  
(1* year) 6 months (minimum 600 hours) 60% *(1)  
(2"4 year) (minimum 1200 hours) 70% *(2)  
year) (minimum 1200 hours) 80% *(3)  
(4° year) (minimum 1200 hours) 90% *(3)  
### BENEFIT CODE SCHEDULE OF FRINGE BENEFITS FOR APPRENTICES  
*(1) year, (1% and 2"4 6 months) - H&W, Vacation Savings ($1.00), Apprenticeship,  
Industry Advancement, Carpenters/Contractors Cooperation Committee  
*(2) year — H&W, Full Vacation Savings, Apprenticeship, Industry Advancement,  
Carpenters/Contractors Cooperation Committee, Supplemental Dues.  
*(3) 3' & year — All current fringe benefits.  
### E. CARPENTER PRE-APPRENTICE  
l. There is established a classification of Pre-Apprentice.  
2. The recruiting, hiring and dispatch of Pre-Apprentices shall be the responsibility of  
Union.  
3. The Employer may employ one Pre-Apprentice for every (2) Apprentices  
dispatched under this agreement on a job by job basis.  
4, Pre-Apprentices shall, upon accumulation of 300 hours of on the job training  
become eligible for entry into the Apprenticeship program.  
5. shall work under the supervision of the Carpenter Foreman and the  
work they perform will be incidental to work normally performed by Journeyman  
Carpenters and/or Apprentices. Pre-Apprentices will not be required to use power  
equipment.  
6. Pre-Apprentices shall receive the following wages based on the Journeyman rate of  
pay:  
45% of Journeyman rate + Appr. $.40 +  
Vac/Supp. Dues $.34  
7/1/03  
-6-  
7. It is understood, should an Employer participate m the hiring of Pre- Apprentices  
that after having earned in excess of 300 hours in the program, he or she will have  
health care benefits paid on his or her hours.  
### SECTION VI  
### CARPENTER SAVINGS PLAN, SUPPLEMENTAL DUES CHECK-OFF, HEALTH AND  
### INSURANCE, PENSION PLAN, AND APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING, COOPERATION  
### COMMITTEE AND INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT  
### A. CARPENTER SAVINGS PLAN  
Each Employer covered by this Agreement will contribute the sum of $2.86 per hour for each hour  
compensated to carpenters employed by such individual Employer under this agreement to the Carpenters  
Savings Trust Fund and will be subject to and entitled to the benefits of all the provisions of the Trust  
. Agreement, in existence prior to June 1, 1968, or as amended, or as the Fund may be reorganized or  
merged, establishing that fund. For the purpose of administering the Savings Trust Fund as set forth  
herein, the individual employer by becoming a party to this Agreement does hereby designate the  
Employer trustees to act as his agent on all matters concerning the fund. It is expressly understood by the  
parties that the payment herein provided shall be considered as part of the employee’s basic wage rates for  
the purpose of computing overtime and shall be paid accordingly. These amounts shall include  
supplemental dues.  
### B. SUPPLEMENTAL AND LOCAL UNION DUES CHECKOFF  
Subject to the following conditions, the contractor agrees that each employee who gives written  
authorizations to the Board of Trustees of the Carpenters Vacation Savings Trust to pay to the Union from  
funds held by the Trustees on his behalf the sum of fifty-seven cents ($0.57) for each hour of his  
employment (hours worked, or paid) in each payroll period, as special supplemental dues and the sum  
required by local union dues owed by thelemployee to the Union.  
The Union shall bear the entire responsibility for obtaining the written authorization from the  
employee and furnishing the authorization to the Board of Trustees in a form satisfactory to the Trustees.  
All costs, expenses and fees of the Board of Trustees incident to the accounting, administration and  
remittance to the Union of the supplemental dues and or local union dues payments shall be borne solely  
and entirely by the Union. This provision shall in no way affect the obligation of the Contractor to pay the  
full amount of vacation contributions specified in this Agreement.  
### C. LOCAL UNION INITIATION FEES  
The employer agrees to deduct regular initiation fees and dues upon receipt of a written  
authorization from any employee, subject however, to the provisions of any applicable State or Federal  
laws. The amount to be deducted shall be indicated on the authorization and in no case shall the amount  
deducted be more than the amount due the employee. The employer shall submit the deducted initiation  
fees monthly to the local union.  
7/1/03  
7.  
It is the intent and purpose of the parties to comply fully with all laws, rules and regulations  
applicable to the dues check-off provided by this Section. If any provision of this Section, or any  
procedure in the implementation or administration of this Section, is determined to violate any such law,  
rule or regulation, the parties will promptly enter into lawful negotiations to correct such violation.  
The Union shall exonerate, reimburse and save harmless the Employer, each individual employer  
and the Bank or other depository designated pursuant to this Section, individually and collectively,  
against any and all liabilities and reasonable expenses arising out of the payment, receipt or distribution of .  
the amounts listed in the Master Agreement for Working Dues.  
### D. HEALTH AND INSURANCE  
Each individual employer covered by this Agreement will contribute the sum of $3.07 per hour for  
each hour compensated to carpenters employed by such individual employer under this Agreement to the  
Carpenter’s Health and Insurance Trust Fund and will be subject to and entitled to the benefits of  
provisions of the Trust Agreement in existence prior to June 1, 1968, or as amended, or as the fund may  
be reorganized or merged, establishing that fund. For the purpose of administering the Health and  
Insurance Trust Fund mentioned herein the individual employer by becoming a party to this Agreement  
does hereby designate the Employer trustees to act as his agent in all matters concerning the fund. Health  
and Insurance can be increased by a maximum of twenty- five (25) cents per hour over the duration of the  
contract to maintain Health and Insurance benefits at the discretion of the Trustees of the Health and  
Trust Fund — with sixty (60) days notice to contractors.  
### E. PENSION PLAN  
Each individual employer covered by this Agreement will contribute the sum of $2.63 per hour for  
each hour compensated to carpenters employed by such individual employer under thts Agreement to the  
Carpenter’s Pension Trust Fund, and will be subject to and entitled to the benefits of all the provisions of  
the Trust Agreement in existence prior to June 1, 1968, or as amended, or as the fund may be reorganized  
or merged, establishing that fund any amendments thereto.  
### F. APPRENTICESHIP  
The Employer and the Union agree to establish and operate a joint apprenticeship and training  
committee for carpenters. The joint committee is to have complete control and direction of the on the-job  
and related class training of all apprentices in the trade. To meet the cost of operation and administering  
of the joint apprenticeship program each individual employer covered by this Agreement will contribute  
the sum of thirty-six cents (.36) per hour compensated to carpenters employed by such individual  
employer under this Agreement. Such contributions shall be made to the “Carpenters Joint Apprentice and  
Training Committee Fund.” Each employer shall employ at least one apprentice under conditions  
established under the rules and regulations of the joint apprenticeship.  
### G. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT  
The Union recognizes that the Association is required to expend certain sums to administer this  
agreement and to promote programs designed to improve the construction industry. Each individual  
7/4/03  
-8-  
Employer covered by this Agreement will contribute the sum of fifteen (.15) cents per hour for each hour  
compensated to carpenters employed by such individual Employer under this Agreement to the  
Construction Industry Advancement Fund administered by the Nevada Chapter Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc.  
For the purpose of administering this fund, the Individual Employer, by becoming signatory to this  
Agreement, does hereby designate the employer trustees to act as his agent in all matters concerning the  
Fund. In the event an Individual Employer specifically excludes the provisions of subsection G under this  
Agreement he shall pay an additional contribution of fifteen cents (.15) to the joint apprenticeship  
program described under subsectionF. The employers may review the status of the fund described in this  
subsection should any law be enacted which purports to change the method of appointing trustees or  
administering this fund, by serving notice upon the Union of a desire to review such status not more than  
sixty (60) days in advance of the initial meeting for such review.  
### H. CARPENTERS-CONTRACTORS COOPERATION COMMITTEE  
The parties to this agreement have established the Carpenters-Contractors Cooperation Committee  
for the purpose of protecting, improving and advancing the interests and welfare of Contractors and  
employees working within the unionized segment of the Carpenters construction industry. Each signatory  
member of the Association and those individual Employers who are obligated to contribute under a  
collective bargaining agreement with the Union shall contribute during the term of this Agreement, the  
sum of ten cents ($.10) per hour compensated to carpenters employed under this Agreement to the  
Carpenters-Contractors Cooperation Committee. The Committee is a jointly established and administered  
Committee formed and created for the about stated purposes. ,  
### I. GENERAL PROVISIONS  
In order to provide benefits to employees without disruption during periods of contract  
negotiations and to assure an orderly means of collecting Trust Fund contributions during such periods,  
each signatory employer agrees that he or it shall be obligated to contribute to each and every Trust Fund  
referred to in this Agreement for any period following the termination date of this agreement unless and  
unti}] a lawful impasse occurs or until a successor Agreement is negotiated. Each signatory employer  
further agrees that the Union and/or any of said Trust Funds may enforce this obligation through the  
grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement and/or by action to collect such delinquent  
contributions filed in the United States District court for the district of Nevada.  
Effective December 31, 2003, contributions to the existing Trust Funds will cease and  
commencing January 1, 2004, fringe benefit contributions will be made, except as provided below,  
pursuant to the revised provisions of Section VI.  
In addition to the foregoing contributions, any signatory Employer who was signed to any  
agreement which required contributions to the Northern Nevada Carpenters Pension Fund prior to June  
30, 2003, will also contribute an amount equivalent to $1.25 for every hour of contributions owed to the  
Carpenters Pension Trust for Southern California under Paragraph E above. This contribution will not be  
made on behalf of any individual but the $1.25 is to be used by the Trustees of the Northern Nevada Plan |  
pursuant to the terms of the governing trust agreement for the express purpose of paying accrued benefits  
7/1/03  
-9-  
and incidental administrative costs and expenses. No individual employee will accrue any additional  
benefits based on this payment. When another entity has fully assumed all liability from the Carpenters  
Pension Trust of Northern Nevada for all accrued, vested and or unfunded pension benefits and the plan is  
terminated or the Trustees make a determination that such contribution is no longer necessary, this  
payment will cease. At that time the Union may choose to reallocate $1.25 of the pension contribution (or  
some portion thereof) to wages and/or other benefits at the sole discretion of the Union with 60 days  
written notice to the Employer.  
If an Employer makes the $1.25 contributions set forth above to the Northern Nevada Pension  
Plan as required, that Employer may deduct such payments from the amount required to be paid to the  
Carpenters Pension Trust for Southern California.  
On or after July 1, 2004, should the Northern Nevada pension board of trustees determine that the $ 1.25  
per hour contribution is insufficient to meet the fund's current liabilities, the parties to the collective  
bargaining agreement, upon 30 days written notice from the board of trustees, agree to meet for the sole  
purpose of discussing Northern Nevada pension contributions.  
The payment to the Carpenters Health & Welfare Fund set forth above is $0.35 higher than that  
required of other participants in the Plan. This additional contribution is designed to compensate the Fund  
for the cost of providing immediate eligibility as of January 1, 2004, through April 30, 2004, for all  
Northern Nevada Plan Participants that were eligible as of December 31, 2003, and the opportunity to  
earn an hour bank for the full amount allowed by the Southern California health plan.  
Contributions Payable to the Trust Funds from July 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003  
Effective Date 7/1/03  
Vacation/Supplemental Dues $2.86  
{Paragraph A)  
Health and Welfare $3.07  
(Paragraph D)  
Pension Plan $2.63  
(Paragraph E)  
Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund $0.36  
(Paragraph F)  
Cooperation Committee . $0.10  
{Paragraph H)  
Industry Advancement Fund $0.15  
(Paragraph G)  
The above contributions will be made by each Employer for each hour worked (or paid for) by all  
7/1/03  
-10-  
employees employed under the terms of this Agreement.  
The Union will have the nght to allocate a portion of wages or future wage increases to any of the  
Funds designated above.  
### SECTION VI (A)  
### CARPENTERS VACATION/SAVINGS PLAN, SUPPLEMENTAL DUES, HEALTH AND  
### WELFARE, PENSION, APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING, COOPERATION COMMITTEE AND  
### INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT  
   
A. General Provisions  
Beginning January 1, 2004, the Employer parties to this Agreement agree to comply with all the  
terms of the Agreements establishing: (1) the Carpenters Health & Welfare Trust for Southern California,  
dated February 8, 1955, as amended; (2) the Carpenters Pension Trust for Southern California, dated  
September 14, 1959, as amended; (3) the Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee Fund  
for Southern California, dated May 1, 1960, as amended; (4) the 12 County Carpenters Vacation Savings  
and Holiday Plan, dated April 1, 1962, as amended; (5) the Construction Industry Cooperation  
Committee, dated October 1, 1986, as amended; and (6) the Construction Industry Advancement Fund  
(for Northern Nevada), dated September 19, 1972, as amended; (hereafter collectively referred to as the  
“Carpenters Trust Funds’’) and any amendments, modifications, extensions and renewals of such Trust  
Agreements and By Laws.  
Except as specifically excluded by this Agreement such Trust Agreements and By Laws are  
specifically incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement.  
The Employer parties to this Agreement agree to pay the Carpenters Trust Funds the sums in the  
amounts and manner provided for in this Agreement and further agrees to be bound by the Trust  
Agreements, By-Laws and Rules and Procedures adopted by the Trustees and Directors of the Trust  
Funds and Committee referred to herein, and all amendments, modifications, extensions and renewals  
thereto.  
The Employer parties to this Agreement agree that they do irrevocably designate and appoint the  
Employers mentioned in the Agreements establishing the various Carpenters Trust Funds along with  
representatives designated by the United General Contractors, Inc., as his attorney infact, for the  
selection, removal and substitution of Trustees or Directors as provided by or pursuant to the Master  
Labor Agreement and Trust Agreements and By-Laws.  
B. Vacation Savings and Holiday Plan  
The parties have established a Joint Vacation Savings and Holiday Plan and Trust. Each  
Employer will make payments in the amounts designated in Attachment 1 to the Twelve (12) County  
Carpenters Vacation Savings and Holiday Plan. The contributions so made will be deemed to be, and will  
be treated as, subject to withholding tax and Social Security and Unemployment taxes, a part of the total  
compensation payable at the end ofthe individual Employers’ payroll period during which such work is |  
7/1/03  
-11-  
performed or paid for, but the full per-hour payments will be transmitted to the Plan.  
C. Supplemental Dues  
Subject to the following conditions, the Employer agrees that he will, if he is furmshed with his  
employees written authorization to do so, deduct the sum of two dollars and eighty-six cents ($2.86) per  
hour or the amount of Supplemental Dues that are lawfully required by the Umion from the amounts  
required to be paid as vacation benefits by Attachment No. | to this Agreement for each employee  
covered hereby for each hour worked or paid for in each payroll period commencing January 1, 2004 as  
Special Supplemental Dues. In implementing the foregoing the Carpenters Southern California  
Administrative Corporation has been designated as Agent for the purpose of receiving and holding written  
authorization cards and for receiving, holding and allocating and distributing the dues monies.  
Said Supplemental Dues will be transmitted to said Agent concurrently with, but not as a part of,  
the Employers monthly vacation contributions with respect to his employees covered by this Agreement  
to the 12 County Carpenters Vacation Savings and Holiday Plan (Vacation Trust). All sums deducted by  
the Employers pursuant to the provision of this Article will, from the instant of their deduction, be  
considered dues if proper authorization will have been furnished. All other sums transmitted by the  
Employers pursuant to the provisions of this Article will, from the instance of their transmittal, be  
considered vacatior-holiday contributions if no such proper authorization will have been furnished, and  
will be held by the Vacation Trust for the account of the employee. Pnor to the deposit in the separate  
bank accounts of the Agent, on the one hand, and the Vacation Trust, on the other, the bank will separate  
the funds transmitted into dues and vacatior-holiday contributions, respectively, based on whether or not  
a proper dues deduction authorization has been filed. The bank will then deposit such sums in the account  
of either the Agent or the Vacation Trust. The Union will bear the entire responsibility for furnishing the  
written authorization referred to above. All costs incident to receipt, administration and remittance to the  
Union of the Supplemental Dues payment will be borne solely and entirely by the Union. This provision  
will not reduce the obligations of the Employer to pay the full amount of vacation contributions specified  
in this Agreement. All written authorizations referred to above will be irrevocable for a period of one (1)  
year from the date of the execution and will renew automatically from year to year thereafter, unless the  
employee, by written notice served upon the Local Union and/or the Agent not more than twenty (20)  
days and not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration of the first year or any year thereafter, will  
have revoked such authorization.  
D. Health and Welfare  
There has been established a Joint Health and Welfare Trust Agreement. Each Employer covered  
by this Agreement agrees to be bound by this Trust Agreement and will contribute the sum designated in  
Attachment 1 to the Carpenters Health and Welfare Trust for Southern California.  
E. Pension Plan  
There has been established a Joint Pension Trust Agreement. Each Employer covered by this  
Agreement agrees to be bound by this Trust Agreement and will contribute the sum designated in  
Attachment | to the Carpenters Pension Trust for Southern California.  
7/1/03  
-|?-  
F. Carpenter Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee  
There has been established a Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee Trust Agreement.  
Each Employer covered by this Agreement agrees to be bound by this Trust Agreement and will  
contribute the sum designated in Attachment 1 to the Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship and Training  
Committee Trust for Southern California.  
The Employers will appoint members to the local Carpenter Joint Apprenticeship Training  
Committee and participate in their activities.  
G. Carpenters-Contractors Cooperation Committee  
The parties to this Agreement have established the Carpenters-Contractors Cooperation  
Committee for the purposes of protecting, improving and advancing the interests and welfare of  
Employers and employees working within the unionized segment of the Carpenters’ construction  
industry. Each signatory member of the Association and those individual Employers who are obligated to  
contribute under a collective bargaining agreement with the Union will contribute, during the term of this  
Agreement, the sum designated in Attachment | to the Carpenters-Contractors Cooperation Committee.  
The Committee is a jointly established and administered Committee formed and created for the above  
stated purposes and the individual Employer hereby adopts and agree to be bound by the terms of Bylaws  
establishing the Carpenters-Contractors Cooperation Committee dated October 1, 1986, and further agrees  
to observe and be bound by the actions and determinations of the Board of Directors of said Committee.  
H. Contract Administration and Industry Advancement.  
The Union recognizes that the Association is required to expend certain sums to administer  
this agreement and to promote programs designed to improve the construction industry. Each individual  
Employer covered by this Agreement will contribute the sum of fifteen (.15) cents.per hour for each hour  
compensated to carpenters employed by such individual Employer under this Agreement to the  
Construction Industry Advancement Fund, administered by the Nevada Chapter Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc.  —  
For the purpose of administering this fund, the Individual Employer, by becoming signatory to this  
Agreement, does hereby designate the employer trustees to act as his agent in all matters concerning the  
Fund. In the event an Individual Employer specifically excludes the provisions of subsection H under this  
Agreement he will pay an additional contribution of fifteen cents (.15) to the joint apprenticeship program  
described under subsection F. The employers may review the status of the fund described in this  
subsection should any law be enacted which purports to change the method of appointing trustees or  
administering this fund, by serving notice upon the Union of a desire to review such status not more than  
sixty (60) days in advance of the initial meeting for such review.  
7/1/03  
-13-  
### ATTACHMENT 1  
Contributions Payable to the Trust Funds  
Effective Date | 1/1/04  
Vacation/Supplemental Dues $2.86  
{Paragraphs B and C)  
Health and Welfare | $3.30  
(Paragraph D)  
Pension Plan $2.36  
(Paragraph E)  
Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund $0.40  
(Paragraph F)  
Cooperation Committee $0.10  
{Paragraph G)  
Industry Advancement Fund $0.15  
(Paragraph H)  
The above contributions will be made by each Employer for each hour worked (or paid for) by all  
employees employed under the terms of this Agreement.  
The Union will have the right to allocate a portion of wages or future wage increases to any of the  
Funds designated above.  
### TRUST FUND AUDIT  
Each individual Employer, upon request of the Union, the Employer, or any Trust Fund specified  
in this Agreement, shall permit the Trust Fund Auditors to review any and all records relevant to the  
enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and to enter upon the premises of such Employer during  
business hours at reasonable time or times to examine such books, records, papers or reports of such  
Employer as may be necessary to determine whether or not the Employer is making full payment of all  
sums required by this Agreement. Such review shall be permitted not less than five (5) working days  
after demand. If Employer cancels an audit appointment with appropriate two (2) hour notice to the  
auditor, the cost of such lost time by the auditor shail be borne by the Employer. The cost of the audit  
shall be borne by the individual Employer. The cost of the audit shall be borne by the individual  
Employer if a shortage disclosed by the audit exceeds $1,000.00  
Trustees of the Trust Funds specified in this Agreement are authorized to determine the  
appropriate formula to be applied to compute appropriate Trust Fund contributions. The individual  
7/1/03  
-14-  
Employer shall be required to comply with such Trust Fund formula and make payments to the Trust  
Fund immediately upon being advised of the amount due.  
Any individual Employer who refuses audit entry shall pay all the legal fees and costs necessary  
for compliance of audit entry.  
The Union has the right to withhold men from any individual Employer who refuses to make  
available relevant records necessary for the completion of the audit.  
Information derived from the audit shall be confidential and used solely for the Enforcement of this  
Agreement.  
### SECTION VII  
### REMOTE AREA ZONE PAY FOR BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, HEAVY, HIGHWAY AND DAM  
### CONSTRUCTION  
   
A. AREA 1, ZONE PAY SCALE. All work falling within fifty (50) road miles of either the  
Carson City Courthouse or the Washoe County Courthouse shall be considered a free area for the purpose  
of this Agreement.  
B. AREA 2, ZONE PAY SCALE. All work falling between fifty (S50) and one hundred and fifty  
(150) road miles of either Carson City Courthouse or the Washoe County Courthouse shall be  
compensated at an additional $2.00 per hour.  
C. AREA 3, ZONE PAY SCALE. All work falling between one hundred and fifty (150) and  
three hundred (300) road miles of the Washoe County Courthouse shall be computed at an additional  
$3.00 per hour. |  
D. AREA 4, ZONE PAY SCALE. Any work performed in excess of three hundred (300) road  
miles of the Washoe County Courthouse shall be computed at $4.00 per hour.  
E. No remote area pay shall be paid within ten (10) miles of employee’s permanent place of  
residence in the State of Nevada.  
F. Workmen performing outside of the free zones shall receive the appropriate remote area  
allowance for not less than eight (8) hours per day. Remote area differential shall be considered part of the  
basic wage rate for the purpose of computing overtime hourly wage rates.  
G. When the contractor furnishes daily transportation to the workmen from Reno or Carson City  
to and from the jobsite, no travel time, subsistence, or remote area shall be paid. The workmen will travel  
one way during regular working hours and one way outside of regular working hours.  
H. It is expressly understood by the parties that payment herein provided as remote area pay  
shall be considered part of the employee’s basic wage rates for the purpose of computing overtime.  
7/1/03  
=15-~  
### SECTION VIII  
### HOURS OF WORK  
A. Eight consecutive hours, exclusive of the meal period, shall constitute a day’s work. The  
working hours shall be between the hours of 5:30 am and 5:00 pm, with thirty (30) minutes off for lunch.  
There shall be a regularly scheduled meal period. The meal period shall be one-half (1/2) hour and shall  
be scheduled by the Individual Employer so that the beginning or the ending, or some portion of such a  
meal period shall be at the mid-point of the regularly scheduled hours of work for each shift. If the  
Individual Employer requires the Employee to perform any work included previously in this Agreement  
through his scheduled meal period, the Employee shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate for such  
meal period and shall be afforded an opportunity to eat on the Individual Employer’s time. Before  
starting such an earlier starting time, the Employer shall give notification of the deviation in starting time  
to the Local Union having jurisdiction not less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the starting time of the  
deviation and shall contain the following information:  
Address of job.  
Starting deviation hour.  
Starting date for deviation.  
Reason for deviation  
Approximate ending date of deviation.  
wb wn  
Overtime rates shall not be paid for work performed before 5:30 am, Monday through  
Friday, on jobs where deviation in starting time was performed in compliance with the provisions of this  
Section. In the event an Employer fails to give proper notice to the Local Union of a deviation in starting  
time or fails to comply with the terms of this Section, the Employer shall be considered in violation of the  
Agreement and shall be required to pay proper overtime for all time worked prior to 8:00.A.M. Should  
daylight savings time be established by direction of any governing body, the parties may by mutual  
agreement establish a later starting time than that required by this Agreement.  
B. The regular work week shall consist of five days, Monday through Fnday. Any work  
performed over eight hours per day and on Saturdays shall be compensated at time and one-half the  
appropriate hourly rate. All work performed on Sundays, holidays and over 12 hours in one day shall be  
compensated at two times the appropriate hourly rate. In the event a days work is lost because of severe  
weather conditions or major mechanical breakdown, work may be performed on a voluntary basis on a  
Saturday at the straight time hourly rate for eight hours provided the straight time hours worked in one  
week do not exceed 40 hours. In situations requiring special working hours, the Union and Employer  
may negotiate special hours and conditions for that job only.  
The employer may, in zone 2, 3 and 4, after first notifying the Union, establish a work week  
consisting of 10 hours per day for four consecutive days at the straight time hourly rate between the hours  
of 5:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The employer may work four ten hour shifts in  
zonel, only with the prior approval of the Union.  
7/1/03  
-16-  
_ - rm ee ee ee ee ee eee = = Ss = ao  
-  
C. When a workman is required to work more than three (3) hours over his regular eight (8)  
hours, the employer agrees to provide lunch and the workman shall have sufficient time to eat the lunch  
without loss of time.  
D. When so elected by the Contractor, multiple shifts may be worked for five (5) or more  
consecutive days, provided that the Union is notified twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the effective  
date of the starting of such multiple shift operations. Men working on multiple shifts shall not be  
interchangeable with those working on a single shift basis In no event shall the regular working hours of  
different shifts overlap, not shall any interval between shifts exceed one (1) hour.  
E. SHIFT WORK _ Shift work may be performed at the option of the Employer. However,  
when shift work is performed, it must continue for a period of not less that five consecutive work days.  
When two (2) shifts are employed, both shifts shall work eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rate,  
or a proportionate part thereof for the time worked. One two (2) shift operations, the first shift shall have  
a regular starting time not earlier than 5:00 a.m. and not later than 8:00 a.m., unless modified by mutual  
agreement of the Union and Employer. When three (3) shifts are employed for five (5) or more  
consecutive days, the first shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours (exclusive of meal period). The first  
shift shall start at 8:00 a.m. The second shift shall be seven and one-half hours. The third shift shall  
be seven (7) hours. All shifts shall be compensated at eight (8) times the straight time hourly rate  
(exclusive of meal period). Shifts shall run consecutively for five (5) days or more. The Employer shall  
determine the crafts and number of men to be assigned to each of the shifts established.  
F. (1) Ona three (3) shift operation, commencing on Monday at the established starting time for  
day shift then in effect, the fifteenth (1 or Friday graveyard shift ending on or before 8:00 a.m.  
Saturday morning will be considered Friday work.  
(2). The Saturday graveyard shift ending on or before 8:00 a.m. Sunday morning will be  
considered Saturday work. The Sunday graveyard shift ending on or before 8:00 a.m. Monday morning  
will be considered Sunday work.  
G. The number of employees on the second and third shift on a multiple shift job shall not exceed  
the number of employees on the first shift. The foregoing may be modified by mutual agreement of the  
Union and the Employer.  
### SECTION Ix  
### HOLIDAYS  
The following days are recognized as holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,  
Labor Day, Admission Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after Thanksgiving and Christmas Day. If any of  
the above holidays should fall on Sunday, the Monday following shall be considered a recognized  
holiday. If any of the above holidays should fall on a Saturday, the employee may take off the Friday  
prior as the holiday upon five days notice to the employer. No work shall be performed on Labor Day,  
except to preserve life and property.  
7/1/03  
-17-  
### SECTION X  
### SHOW-UP TIME  
Any employee reporting to work at the regular starting time for whom no work is provided shall  
receive pay for two (2) hours at the regular hourly rate for so reporting unless he has been notified before  
the end of his last preceding shift not to report; and any employee who reports for work and for whom  
work is provided shail receive not less than four (4) hours pay; and if more that four (4) hours are worked  
in any one (1) day, he shall receive not less than a full day’s pay therefore, unless prevented from working  
for reasons beyond the control of the employer, including, but not limited by, such factors as inclement  
weather or a breakdown causing discontinuance of a major unit of the project, during which time  
employees are not required or requested to remain on the project by the employer or his agent. The  
employee will furnish the employer with his current address and telephone number, if any. The  
employer shall furnish the employee with the employer’s current address and telephone number at the  
time of employment.  
### SECTION XI  
### PAYMENT OF WAGES  
All wages must be paid on the job site weekly, no later than one-half hour before quitting time.  
Employer may not hold back more than one week’s pay. Errors in paychecks must be filed in writing  
within ten (10) working days from payday.  
When men are laid off or discharged, they must be paid in full at the time of such lay-off or  
discharge and if not, then pay shall accumulate for all time that such an employee-is not paid on the basis  
of 8 hours straight times on a 7 days a week basis until payment is made. When employees are paid by  
check on other than a local bank, the employer shall make arrangements for a local bank to honor his  
checks. The employer will not require a lien waiver as a condition precedent to the receipt of a payroll  
check.  
The individual employer shall show on the paycheck stubs the individual employer’s name,  
business address, payroll week ending date, total hours, total overtime hours, itemized deductions and net  
pay, plus each contnbution made with respect to the payroll period. For any employee voluntarily  
quitting, the employer may not withhold his check for a pertod longer than three (3) days unless the delay  
is caused by circumstances beyond the control of the employer. If any employer lays off men prior to  
payday, he must pay the men in full at the time of termination of employment. Any employee discharged  
or laid off in the afternoon shall receive pay until the regular quitting time of the shift.  
All emplo yees upon termination shall be allowed sufficient time to assemble their tools before  
leaving the job.  
The employer agrees to furnish such payroll information as may be necessary as requested by the  
Local Union in order to determine whether there has beenany violation of the wage, fringe benefits, or  
other condition of employment of this Agreement.  
7/1103  
-18-  
eee  
### SECTION XII  
### STEWARDS AND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES  
A business agent, special representative, or steward shall have access to the job during working  
hours for the purpose of checking the manner with which the terms of this Agreement are being complied  
with. He shall advise the individual employer or his representatives of his presence on the job and shall  
not stop or interfere with the work of any workman without the permission of the individual employer or  
his representative. No business agent, special representative, or steward shall be discriminated against  
for performing his duties under this Agreement.  
The steward is to receive grievances or disputes from employee members of his craft and shall  
immediately report them to his business representative, who shall immediately attempt to adjust the  
grievance or dispute with the employer or his representative.  
The steward shall be a working employee selected by the Union who shall, in addition to his  
regularly assigned work, be permitted to perform during working hours such of his steward’s duties as  
cannot be performed otherwise. The Union agrees that such duties shall be performed as expeditiously as  
possibk and the employer agrees to allow the steward a reasonable amount of time for the performance of  
his duties, including, in addition to his normal duties, obtaining information on safety and sanitation. The  
Union shall notify the Employer or his representative in writing of the appointment of the Steward. The  
Employer or his representative can lay-off or discharge the Steward for cause only, and the Employer  
shall notify the Union, of his intention to do so one (1) full working day prior to such layoff or discharge  
on projects within fifty (50) miles of the hiring hall, and give two (2) working days notice on projects  
located over fifty (50) miles form the hiring hall. The steward shall not be discharged or laid off for the  
performance of his Union duties.  
### SECTION XII  
### GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
Should a controversy, dispute or disagreement arise during the period of this Agreement over  
interpretations and operations of this Agreement, the difference may be adjusted in the following manner.  
All complaints must be filed in wnting within thirty (30) days after the matter in dispute or  
disagreement is alleged to have occurred.  
Errors in paychecks must be filed in writing within ten (10) working days from payday.  
Upon receipt of a written report setting forth m detail the nature of the specific issue in  
controversy a representative of the Union and a representative of the Employer shall attempt to reach a  
settlement of the dispute.  
If a settlement is not reached within three (3) days, the matter shall be submitted to a Board of  
Adjustment, appointed as follows:  
7/1/03  
-19-  
Two (2) members shall be appointed by the Employer involved, and two (2) members shall be  
appointed by the Union.  
In the event a majority of these appointees do not agree upon a settlement of the dispute within  
three (3) days thereafter, they shall mutually select a neutral chairman, and these five (5) shall constitute a  
Board of Arbitration, and shall render a majority decision that shall be final, binding, and conclusive upon  
all parties concerned. |  
If within twenty four (24) hours, the parties cannot agree on a neutral Chairman, such chairman  
shall be selected as follows:  
The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be requested to submit the names of five (5)  
qualified arbitrators. Each party to the dispute, through their appointed representatives, shall have the  
right to reject two (2) of the names submitted and the remaining fifth person shall be selected as the  
neutral chairman within twenty-four (24) hours after submission of the names of such qualified  
arbitrators. The arbitrators list will be purged by the parties alternately striking names until one name is  
left.  
The Union reserves the right to strike or take legal or economic action regarding any dispute  
concerning payment of wages, travel, or subsistence or contributions to any trust funds but may submit  
said issue or dispute to the grievance procedure or do both.  
The provisions of Section III may not be enforced by strike action.  
### SECTION XIV  
### TOOLS  
A. The individual Employer shall provide on each job site a secure place where his employees  
may keep their tools. The Employer shall give the employees reasonable time to pick up their tools each  
day before quitting time.  
B. Carpenters and Apprentices shall furnish their own tools, but shall not furnish any cordless or  
battery powered tools, sawhorses, ladders, miter boxes, electric drills, power bits, power-operated  
machines, electric cords, power saws or automotive equipment to be used for the purpose of hauling or  
delivering the employer’s materials or equipment. Each employee shall arrive on the job site with tools in  
a proper condition. If necessary, the employee shall be allowed a reasonable amount of time during the  
work week to sharpen his tools on the employer’s time. If the Employer so chooses, he may send out  
employees’ saws to be sharpened by a commercial saw sharpener.  
C. If any individual employee's full box of working tools is lost by ‘reason of fire, theft or forcible  
entry while in the individual Employer's care, the individual Employer shall reimburse the employee for  
such loss up to a maximum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) within five (5) working days from the date  
of claim for loss of tools as provided herein, the individual Employer shall acknowledge liability therefore  
7/1/03  
-20-  
or reject the claim. To implement this section, the individual carpenter shall provide an exact written  
inventory of tools within five (5) days after starting the job. (See Attachment (a)  
### SECTION XV  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
A. Sanitary toilets, drinking water, and shelter will be furnished on all jobs in accordance with  
the applicable local and state health and sanitation laws. The Employer shall provide a shelter for the men  
to use at lunch time if no vehicle is available in the immediate locality of the project.  
B. The Employer will carry adequate insurance for compensation of injured workmen and will  
comply with all laws with regard to safety rules. First aid kits must be provided and maintained on the  
job site.  
C. Each employee employed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall receive the  
minimum hourly wage rates specified in this Agreement. Any other method of paying employees shall be  
deemed a violation of this Agreement. Work performed under this Agreement shall be done by the  
employees of the Employer on an hourly basis subject to the subcontracting provisions of this Agreement  
and the Employer recognizes those Sections of the Constitution and laws of the UNITED  
### BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA which prohibit its members from  
contracting for labor only. The contracting Employer agrees that all work covered by this Agreement  
shall be performed by carpenters and that such workmen shall be employees of the Employer or the  
subcontractor employed under the terms of this Agreement.  
D. An employee who, as a result of an omthe-job industrial injury is unable to complete a full  
day’s work shall be paid for the full day on which such injury occurred, provided, however, that such  
payment need not be paid where said injury does not require the attention of a physician who has certified  
to the employee’s inability to complete the work on that day because of such injury. If the Employee is  
required to keep a doctor’s appointment during working hours and such doctor’s appointment is the direct  
result of an or-the-job industrial accident then his pay will continue for the time he is absent from the job  
for such doctor’s office visit provided he furnishes satisfactory proof to the Employer.  
E. Where any special protective clothing or safety equipment ts required, such equipment or  
clothing shall be furnished by the Employer one time.  
F. Employees shall not be discriminated against for failure to work behind a picket line  
sanctioned by the Carpenters Local Union having jurisdiction over the area in which the work 1s  
performed.  
G. There shall be no limit on production by workmen or restrictions on the full use of tools or  
equipment. Carpenters using tools shall perform any of the work assigned. There shall be no restrictions  
on efficient use of manpower other than as may be required by safety regulations.  
7/1/03  
H. Employees shall be at their gang box or tool shed at the designated starting time and shali  
remain at their place of work until the designated quitting time. There shali be no organized coffee breaks.  
Employees will be permitted to bring a thermos of coffee and drink it at their work location provided the  
privilege is not abused.  
I. On mine jobs or high rise jobs over six stories in height, if the parking area or job site layout  
requires extra time, the employee shall arrive at his place of work on his time and return to his vehicle on  
the company time.  
J. No employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, be required to  
furnish job transportation for employer use, furnish transportation within the jobsite or between Jobsites,  
or from yard to jobsite for transportation of Employees or tools or equipment or for any other purpose.  
### SECTION XVI  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
It is not the intent of either party hereto to violate any laws, rulings, or regulations of any  
governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this Agreement and the  
parties agree that in the event that any provisions of this Agreement are finally held or determined to be  
illegal or void as being in contravention of any such laws, rulings, or regulations, nevertheless, the  
remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless the parts so found to be void and  
fully inseparable from the remaining portion of this Agreement. The parties agree that if and when any.  
provisions of this Agreement are held or determined to be illegal or void, they will then promptly enter  
into lawful negotiations concerning the substance thereof.  
### SECTION XVII  
### PRE-JOB CONFERENCES  
The parties agree to the use of pre-job conferences on projects over $3 million provided said pre-  
job conference is requested in writing by either party to this agreement.  
7/1/03  
-2)-  
### SECTION XVIII  
### EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION  
This agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 2003, and shall remain in full force and effect to  
and including June 30, 2008, and continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter unless  
either party to the agreement shall give written notice to the other of a desire to change, modify, or  
terminate the Agreement not more than 90 days nor less than sixty (60) days prior to June 30, 2008, or  
June 30 of any succeeding year. Except as set forth above, the Employee and each individual-Employer  
bound to this agreement waives any right to terminate, abrogate, repudiate, or cancel this agreement  
during its term, or during the terms of any future modifications, changes, amendments, supplements,  
extensions, or to file or process any petition before the National Labor Relations Board seeking such  
termination, abrogation, repudiation or cancellation.  
The Union agrees that in the event that in 2008 or any succeeding year, either party should  
exercise its right under the first paragraph of this section, the Union will, for a period of 60 days prior to  
June 30 of any such year, bargain with the Employer with respect to all wage rates, working conditions  
and hours of employment for this work herein covered and the Employer agrees to bargain in the same  
manner. If no agreement in entered into between the parties by July 1, or any year in which such notice  
shall be given, then this Agreement thereupon shall cease and terminate.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals  
this day of July, 2003.  
### SOUTHWEST REGIONAL COUNCIL NEVADA CHAPTER, ASSOCIATED  
### OF CARPENTERS AND GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF  
### AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS AMERICA, INC.  
TELEPHONE (775) 323-1409 TELEPHONE (775) 329-6116  
### SIGNED BY: SIGNED BY:  
### TITLE: TITLE:  
7/1/03  
-93.  
eke ete ed ee ee —— --  
### APPENDIX “A”  
### HIRING PROVISIONS  
In the employment of workmen for all work covered by this Agreement in the territory described,  
the following provisions shall govern:  
A. The Local Unions shall establish and maintain open and nor-discriminatory employment lists  
for the use of workmen desiring employment on work covered by this Agreement.  
It is agreed by the Employer and the Union to fully comply with all the provisions of the Federal  
and State laws to the end that no person shall on the grounds of sex, race, color, national origin, or  
membership or non- membership in a labor union be excluded from participation in or be denied the  
benefits of or otherwise subjected to discrimination by not having full access to the terms of this  
Agreement.  
B. The individual employer shall first call upon the Local Union having jurisdiction for such men  
as they may from time to time need and the respective Local Union shall furnish to the employer the  
required number of qualified and competent workmen of the classifications requested by the employer  
strictly in accordance with the provisions of this Section.  
C. It shall be the responsibility of the Employer when ordering men to give the Local Union all  
of the pertinent information regarding the workmen’s employment to enable the dispatch of the workmen  
required.  
D. The Local Union will furnish in accordance with the request of the individual employer such  
qualified and competent workmen of the classifications needed from among those entered on the  
employment lists to the individual employer by use of a written referral in the following order of  
preference on a non discriminatory basis, and shall not be based on or in any way affected by Union  
membership, by-laws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or obligation of  
union membership policies or requirements. All applicants for referrals to jobs shall receive equal  
consideration for employment without regard to sex, race, creed, color or national origin, in conformity  
with the requirements of the Federal and state laws.  
E. The selection of qualified, competent workmen and the order of preference on dispatching of  
such workmen shall be on the following basis:  
(1) To qualify for referral as a journeyman, the applicants must submit evidence either  
of having satisfactorily completed the course in apprenticeship training conducted  
by or under the direction of the standards of the Bureau of Apprenticeship, United  
States Department of Labor, or he shall submit satisfactory written proof that he  
has at least four (4) years experience in the carpenter trade.  
(2) The Union shall maintain a register of all applicants so qualified established on the  
basis of the groups listed below, each applicant being registered in the highest  
priority group for which he qualifies.  
7/1/03  
   
CARPENTERS LIST. Journeyman Carpenters, form builders, setter, layout, finish,  
insulators, framers and welders.  
INTERIOR SYSTEMS LIST. Journeyman, Drywallers, metal framer, acoustic specialists,  
lathers, layout and welders.  
F. The Employer may request by name any qualified workman whose name is on the out of work  
list.  
G. The dispatcher at the Local Union in the first instance in accordance with the provisions of  
this section will determine whether a workman is qualified to register and into what group or list he shail  
be placed. This determination will normally be based upon information or papers which the workman or  
the employer supplies. If any doubt exists as to any material matter, the dispatcher may call or otherwise  
make a prompt investigation to get any facts required.  
H. The Local Union shall post at the hiring hall of the Local Union ail provisions, including the  
terms of this Agreement and any hiring hal] procedures adopted by the Union not in conflict with the  
terms of this Agreement. Copies of such hiring hall procedures shall be posted in an area where notices to  
applicants for employment with the individual employers are customarily posted.  
I. When ordering workmen, the individual Employer will give written notice to the Local Union,  
if possible, not later than 2:30 pm of the day prior (Monday through Friday) or in any event, not less than  
twelve (12) hours, if possible, before the required reporting time, and in the event that forty eight (48)  
hours after such notice (Saturday, Sunday and recognized holidays excluded), the Local Union shall not  
furnish such workmen, the individual Emplo yer may procure workmen from any other source or sources.  
If workmen are so employed, the individual Employer shall promptly report to the appropriate Local  
Union, each such workman by name.  
(1) | When requesting an apprentice from the Union and such apprentice.is not called by  
name, then the Union shall dispatch an apprentice from the hiring list in the order  
that the apprentice has signed the list, regardless of the year of such apprentice’s  
training. Nothing in this subsection shall change the existing practice of (for) hiring  
apprentices directly by the Employer or calling for an, apprentice by name from the  
Union’s hiring list.  
(2) Subject to the terms of this Section, the individual Employer retains the right to  
reject any workman referred by the Union for any reason, and the individual  
Employer may discharge an employee for any cause which he may deem sufficient,  
provided, however, in the hiring or discharging there shall not be any  
discrimination on the part of the Employer against any employee for activities in  
behalf of or representation of the Union not interfering with the proper performance  
of his duties. In the event the Employer does not hire the workman dispatched, the  
Employer shall pay such workman a minimum of four (4) hours show-up pay at the  
hourly rate and all fringe benefits for his classification.  
7/1/03  
-25-  
— ee -_- ——— —— ee —_ a. = a  
J. Employers may list with the union office the names and social security numbers of employees  
not eligible for rehire for one year.  
### APPENDIX “B”  
### _ SPECIAL WORK RULES FOR PILEDRIVERS  
A. The Employer and the Unions agree that the terms and conditions of the following shall apply  
in the State of Nevada, (except Clark, Esemeralda, Lincoln and Nye Counties) for all pile driver, diver  
and tender work as described in Pile Drivers, Bridge, Wharf and Dock Builders Local Union #34 Master  
Agreement between the Pile Drivers Union, by mutual agreement, may modify the crew size.  
B. On required crew sizes, the Employer and the Pile Drivers Union, by mutual agreement, may  
modify the crew size.  
D. The provisions of Section 2(B), Paragraph 1 of the Pile Drivers Local Union #34 Agreement  
with the Pile Drivers Contractors Association AGC of Northern Califomia and the United  
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America shall not apply in the State of Nevada  
unless a Court of competent jurisdiction determines that a unton shop provision 1s lawful  
within the State of Nevada.  
### APPENDIX “C”’  
### LIGHT COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION  
### ARTICLE I  
### COVERAGE  
Section I. It is mutually agreed that the provision of Appendix C shall apply to light  
commercial new construction jobs including wood frame, concrete block, tilt-up and poured- in-place  
concrete construction not more than four (4) stones in height, such as, but not limited to, shopping  
centers, stores, office building, warehouses, and fast food establishments up to three million dollars  
($3,000,000) including curb, gutter and sidewalk, but excluding hotel motel gaming projects where a  
Nevada unlimited gambling license or live gambling will be in effect; and where the total cost of the  
project does not exceed three million dollars ($3 million). When disputed, contractor shall furnish  
evidence that total cost of the project is less than three million dollars ($3,000,000).  
Section 2. Provisions of Appendix “‘C”’ shall not apply on public works projects covered by  
the Davis Bacon Act or other prevailing wage regulations, to any work covered by a maintenance  
agreement or to major retail store remodels.  
7/1/03  
a  
### ARTICLE II  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
Vacation Savings Plan, Health and insurance Plan, Pension Plan, Apprenticeship Training,  
Industry Advancement and Carpenters/Contractors Cooperation Committee. The Employer shall  
contribute to each of the Trust Funds as provided in the Master Labor Agreement in the amounts set forth  
unless modified in this Appendix C.  
### ARTICLE III  
### WAGES AND FRINGE BENEFITS  
Section 1. The following wage rates and benefits for Appendix C shall be applicable during  
the term of this Agreement:  
On light commercial projects, as defined above, the minimum hourly wage rate shall be  
eighty percent (80%) of the current journeyman carpenter rate plus two dollars ($2.00) diverted from the  
Vacation Savings established under the Master Labor Agreement.  
10/1/2002 7/1/03 1/1/04  
Journeyman $18.54 $21.26 $21.26  
Savings $2.82 $0.86 $0.86  
Health & Insurance $3.07 $3.07 $3.30  
Pension $2.63 $2.63 $2.36  
Apprenticeship $0.30 $0.36 $0.40  
Carp-Cont/Com $0.10 $0.10 $0.10  
Industry Prom. $0.10 | $0.15 $0.15  
Total $27.56 $28.43 $28.43  
Upon sixty days written notice to employers, union may reallocate a portion of wages to fringe  
benefits.  
*Wage increase shall be 80% of Master Wage increase. Fringe benefits for this Appendix shall be  
same as Master Agreement with two dollars ($2.00) an hour diverted and added to the wage from the  
vacation savings.  
When an employee is transferred between projects covered by this Appendix and projects covered  
by the Master Agreement, or vice versa, the employee must be re-dispatched at the appropriate wage rate.  
### APPRENTICE WAGE  
Apprentices will be dispatched at the appropriate percent of wages for the light  
Commercial Journeyman rate with benefits as specified in Section VI of the Master Labor Agreement  
except as modified in * Appendix C.  
711103  
-27-  
* Vacation Saving contributions for apprentices shall be at the same rate as journeyman  
carpenters in accordance with “Appendix C” with the remainder of the vacation savings to be diverted and  
added to the wage.  
Unless otherwise specified, all other provisions and/or conditions as set forth in the Master Labor  
Agreement shall apply.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### APPRENTICESHIP  
There must be one journeyman on the job site before any apprentice can be hired, and the  
ratio may be two journeymen per apprentice.  
### ARTICLE V  
### PRE-APPRENTICES  
Pre-Apprentices shall receive the following wages based on the Journeyman rate of pay:  
45% of Journeyman rate, + $0.34 supplemental dues + $0.40 apprenticeship.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### GENERAL PROVISIONS  
In the event the Employer does any other work other than the work as set forth in the Light  
Commercial Appendix C, the Employer agrees to pay the negotiated wages and fringe benefits covered  
under the Master Labor Agreement. The classification of Light Commercial carpenter shall not apply to  
any other work that is not covered within the scope of the Light Commercial Appendix.  
Unless otherwise specified, all other provisions and/or conditions as set forth in the Master Labor  
Agreement shall apply.  
### APPENDIX “D”  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION  
   
### ARTICLE I  
### COVERAGE  
Section 1. The following special provisions shall apply for all residential construction for  
the purpose of this Appendix “D” “Residential” shall be defined as follows:  
7/1/03  
-28-  
"RESIDENTIAL" DEFINITION: All residential wood frame construction, not more than four (4)  
stories in height above the exterior grade, such as, but not limited to, single family dwellings,  
condominiums, townhouses, apartment houses and mobile home parks, up to one million dollars  
($1.000.000). Hotels, motels and assisted living facilities are expressly excluded. When disputed,  
contractor shall furnish evidence that total cost of the project is less than one million dollars ($1,000,000).  
Except as specifically set forth in this Appendix, each and every term and condition of the Master  
Labor Agreement shall apply to the Employer and Union. The Union reserves the right to enter into a  
specific housing agreement based on need and conditions deemed necessary with that individual  
employer. |  
Section 2. Should the Employer perform work coming under the craft jurisdiction of the  
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, which is excluded under the foregoing  
provisions and over which prevailing agreements exist, the Employer agrees to pay the established rates  
and abide by the terms and conditions of any agreements applicable thereto.  
When an employee is transferred between projects covered by this Appendix and projects covered  
by the Master Agreement, or vice versa, the employee must be re-dispatched at the appropriate wage rate.  
### APPENDIX “E”  
### DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION AND DETECTION  
The parties recognize the problems which drug and alcohol abuse have created in the construction  
industry and the need to develop drug and alcohol abuse prevention programs. Accordingly, the parties  
agree that in order to enhance the safety of the work place and to maintain a drug and alcohol free work  
environment, individual employers may require applicants or employees to undergo drug testing. The  
parties agree that if a testing program is implemented by an individual Employer, the following items  
have been agreed upon by Labor and Management:  
(a) It is understood that the use, possession, transfer, or sale of illegal drugs, narcotics, or other  
unlawful substances is absolutely prohibited while employees are on the Employer’s job premises or  
while working on any site in connection with work performed under the applicable agreement.  
(b) The parties agree to allow employers to use, on a voluntary basis, the Avitar oral fluid test or  
an equivalent, or breath-scan test or an equivalent, approved by both parties as an effective low-cost tool  
for substance abuse screening for pre-hire, time of dispatch screening only. Testing procedures shall be  
conducted in a manner consistent with the manufacturers’ specifications and shall utilize the ORAL  
screen OSR devise, in an effort to produce the most consistent and accurate results possible. Should the  
employer or owner written drug test policy require additional screening, such screening shall be done at  
the employers’ expense.  
(c) All applicants or newly hired employees will undergo a drug test at the direction of the  
Employer, but not later than five (5) days after commencement of work, at a facility agreed upon by the  
Employer and the Union. The cutoff levels for both the initial test and the confirmation test will be those  
established by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. The facility where the sample is  
7/1/03  
-29-  
tested will be approved by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. The Employer agrees  
to payleach applicant or employee who takes and passes the drug test for all time it takes to undergo the  
drug test up to a maximum of one (1) hour travel time which includes lab time. If an employee fails the  
drug test and has time coming to him or her, the employer may withhold the cost of the drug test from the  
final check.  
(d) Applicants not passing the drug test will not be placed on the Employer’s payroll or receive  
any compensation including no show- up time compensation Employees not passing the drug test will be  
removed from the Employers payroll. The Employer agrees to pay the cost for administering the drug test.  
(ce) The Employer may require that an employee be tested for drugs and alcohol where the  
Employer has reasonable cause to believe that the employee is impaired from performing his/her job.  
Observation must be made by at least two (2) persons, one (1) of whom may be a Union employee. This  
provision shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner. Supervisors will administer the program in a  
fair and confidential manner. For employees who refuse to take a test where the prerequisites set forth in  
this paragraph have been met, there will be a rebuttal presumption that the test result would have been  
positive for an unlawful substance.  
(f) An Employer may require that an employee who contributed to an accident be tested for drugs  
and alcohol where the Employer has reasonable cause to belteve that the accident resulted from drug  
usage.  
(g) There will be no individual random drug testing by the signatory Employer.  
(h) It is understood that the unsafe use of prescribed medication, or where the use of prescribed  
medication impairs the employee’s ability to perform work, is a basis for removal.  
(i) A sufficient amount of a sample shall be taken to allow for an initial test and confirmation test.  
The initial test will be an Enzyme Multiplied Immunoassa Technique (EMIT). In the event a question or  
positive result arises from the initial test a confirmation test must be utilized before action can be taken  
against the employee or applicant. The confirmation test will be by Gas Chromatography — Mass  
Spectrometry (G C/M S). The cutoff levels for both the initial test and confirmation test will be those  
established by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. Confirmed positive samples will  
be retained by the testing laboratory in secured long term frozen storage for a minimum of one (1) year.  
Collection and transportation of each sample must be done in accordance with the procedures mandated  
by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services.  
(j) Present employees, if tested positive, shall have the prerogative for a rehabilitation program at  
the employee’s expense. When such program has been successfully completed, the Employer shail not  
discriminate in any way against the employee. If work for which the employee is qualified, exists, he or  
she shall be reinstated.  
(k) Any dispute which arises under this drug and alcohol policy shall be submitted to the grievance  
and arbitration procedure set forth in the applicable Agreement.  
7/1/03  
(D In the event an individual Employer is required, as a condition of contract award, to abide by  
the terms and conditions of an owner’s drug and alcohol policy, the Employer will notify the interested  
Unions in writing prior to implementing such policy.  
(m) The establishment or operation of this policy shall not curtail any of an employee found  
in any law, rule or regulation. Should any part of this policy be found unlawful by a court of competent  
jurisdiction or a public agency having jurisdiction over the parties, the remaining portions of the policy  
shall be unaffected and the parties shall enter negotiations to replace the affected provision.  
(n) The Employer shall indemnify and hold the Union harmless against any and all claims,  
demand, suits or liabilities that may arise solely out of the Employer’s application of the Substance Abuse  
Program.  
(0) The Employers will be allowed to conduct periodic jobsite drug testing on construction  
projects until completion of work under the following circumstances:  
(1) The entire jobsite must be tested including all employees of the Employer.  
(2) Prior to start of periodic jobsite testing the Employer will notify the Union in  
(3) Analysis shall be conducted by a Federal Department of Health and Human Services  
certified lab.  
7/1/03  
-31-  
—_— ~ ————— — ee ree sy a ee _—-— = “ —  
### ATTACHMENT (a)  
### JOB SITE CHECK-IN TOOL LIST  
### BASIC TOOLS REQUIRED  
### [CONCRETEFORMS |  
        
### TRI SQUARE OR SPEED SQUARE  
  
|  
  
  
### T_T  
### TAPE  
### Po 00? STEEL TAPE  
### Po UTILITY  
Po  
  
  
  
### 12” ADJUSTABLE WRENCH (CRESCENT  
### WRENCH)  
### WOOD CHISELS SS  
### [DRYWALL-—METALSTUDS |  
### |NAILBAGS  
### NAIL BAGS  
### AX  
### DRYWAL  
    
   
### “DRYWALL SAW (KEYHOLE SAW  
### UTILITY OR FIXED BLADE KNIFE |  
### CIRCLE CUTTER  
Ce  
ee  
Ce  
Ce  
### PE CHALK BOX |  
### TIN SNIPS OR AVIATION STRAIGHT CUT 10”  
Pt  
  
ee  
ee  
  
   
   
     
        
   
   
    
### _ SIDE CUTTER PLIERS  
### _DRYWALL T-SQUARE |  
“PLUMB BOB — 16 OZ. _  
     
   
   
   
    
  
### DRYWALL RASP  
    
### “PENCILS  
   
### (THESE ARE BASIC TOOLS ONLY; OTHER TOOLS WILL BE REQUIRED FOR DIFFERENT JOBS. UNDER NO  
### CIRCUMSTANCES ARE ANY POWER OR CORDLESS TOOLS TO BE TAKEN ON ANY JOB BY ANY MEMBERS,  
### AND ANYONE CAUGHT DOING SO WILL BE SUBJECT TO BEING FINED.)  
Name Social Security #  
Approved By Title  
7/1/03  
-32-