K 8967  
2,400  
3:  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 27  
Between  
INLAND NORTHWEST AGC (a chapter of the  
Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.).  
and  
### PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
Spokane, Waskington  
June 1, 2003 to May 31, 2006  
This Letter of Understanding shall cover all projects involving the construction, alteration,  
or repair of buildings, for northern Idaho, including the counties of: Boundary, Bonner,  
Kootenai, Benewah, Shoshone, Latah, Clearwater, Lewis, Nez Perce, and the northern  
portion of Idaho Co. north of the time line.  
Wages:  
Journeyman scale: 6-1-2003 6-1-2004 6-1-2005  
$ 19.00 $ 19.50 $ 20.00  
The Fringe package will be the same as set forth in the Master Agreement.  
No Employer may utilize this Letter of Understanding unless they are signatory tothe  
Master Labor Agreement in its entirety.  
This Letter of Understanding does not include any work historically performed by  
Miliwrights or Piledrivers, or any Union-funded Projects, Heavy and Highway, or  
Industrial Sites.  
This letter of understanding shall terminate as of May 31, 2006.  
### INLAND NORTHWEST AGC (a chapter of the PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGIONAL Associated  
General Contractors of America, Inc.) COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
beg eI John A. Steffens, Exec. Secretary-Treasurer  
Tim boiz Chairman Thomas J. Flynn, Regional Manager  
Negotiating Committee  
### INLAND NORTHWEST AGC  
(a chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.)  
### AND  
### PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGIONAL COUNCIL  
### OF CARPENTERS  
(Carpenters - Millwrights - Piledrivers)  
6-1-2003 to 5-31-2006  
### PREAMBLE  
THIS AGREEMENT is a successive principle agreement to the Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho  
Carpenters 2000 — 2003 Agreement and all other prior agreements thereto by and between the above named  
parties (or their predecessor organizations).  
This is a collective bargaining agreement between the Inland Northwest AGC (a chapter of the Associated  
General Contractors of America, Inc.) (referred to as the "Employer"), and the Pacific Northwest Regional  
Council of Carpenters and local unions of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America,  
(referred to as the "Union"), and shall constitute an Agreement between the parties hereto for the work,  
conditions and wage rates provided for herein the territory of Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho.  
### ARTICLE |  
### PURPOSES  
1.1 The purposes of this Agreement are to promote the settlement of labor disagreements by conference, to  
prevent strikes and lockouts, to stabilize conditions in Highway, Heavy and Building construction work in the area  
affected by this Agreement, to prevent avoidable delays and expense, generally to encourage a spirit of helpful  
cooperation between the Employer and the Employee Groups to their mutual advantage.  
1.2 The person signing this Agreement on of each Employer warrants and guarantees his authority to  
act for and bind such Employer. Each person signing this Agreement on behalf of the Union warrants and  
guarantees his authority to act for, bind and collectively bargain for and on behalf of the Union.  
### ARTICLE 2  
### PARTIES  
2.1 This Agreement shall apply to all Building, Heavy, Highway Construction (except residential construction)  
coming within the recognized jurisdiction of the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters of the United  
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, and the signatory Local Unions, and individual members  
thereof, except that it shall not apply to Superintendents, Master Mechanics, Civil Engineers, Timekeepers,  
Messengers, Guards, Confidential Employees, Clerks or other office employees.  
2.2 The Union is recognized as sole bargaining agent for employees covered by this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 3  
### MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS  
3.1 The Employers retain full and exclusive authority for the management of their operations. The  
Employers shall direct their working forces at their sole prerogative, which includes but is not limited to hiring,  
promotion, transfer, layoff or discharge. No rules, customs, or practices, shall be permitted or observed which  
limit or restrict production, or limit or restrict the working efforts of employees. The Employers shall utilize the  
most efficient methods or techniques of construction, tools, or other labor saving devices. There shail be no  
limitations upon the choice of materials or design. The Employers shall schedule work, shall determine when  
overtime will be worked, and the number of employees to be utilized.  
3.2 The foregoing enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to exclude other functions not  
specifically set forth. The Employers, therefore, retain ail legal rights not specifically covered by this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 4  
### NO STRIKES -NO LOCKOUTS  
4.1 It is mutually agreed that there shall be no authorized strikes, or other slowdowns or cessation  
of work by either party on account of any labor differences pending the full utilization of the grievance procedure  
set up in Article 13, provided that employees covered by this Agreement shall not be expected to pass through a  
duly authorized picket line.  
4.2 Failure of an Employer to pay wage, travel, or other negotiated fringe payments as outlined in this  
Agreement is a violation of this Agreement and not subject to grievance procedure as outlined in Article 13. In  
the event of violation and after forty-eight (48) hour notice to the Employer, the Union may take economic action  
against such Employer to collect such monies owed, including attorney fees, liquidated damages and audit fees.  
### ARTICLE 5  
### TERRITORY COVERED  
5.1 This Agreement shall cover all Highway, Heavy and Building Construction work in the following counties  
or parts of counties East of the 120th Meridian: Adams, Asotin, Benton, Chelan, Columbia, Douglas, Ferry,  
Franklin, Garfield, Grant, Kittitas, Lincoln, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Spokane, Stevens, Walla Walla, Whitman,  
and Yakima, in the State of Washington; and Benewah, Bonner, Boundary, Clearwater, Kootenai, Latah, Lewis,  
Nez Perce, Shoshone, and the north one-half of idaho County in the State of Idaho.  
D2 In the areas East of the 120th Meridian which are under the jurisdiction of Local Union No. 770, Yakima,  
and Local Union No. 2205, Wenatchee, the terms and conditions of the Western and Central Washington Area  
Master Agreement shall be recognized (Carpenters only). (SEE MAP TO DETERMINE JURISDICTION OF  
LOCAL UNIONS) That area previously known as Local Union No. 1332, Grand Coulee, will remain under thi  
Agreement.  
5.3 Jurisdiction of Millwrights Local 1699 shall cover the entire area delineated itn paragraph 5.1 above.  
### ARTICLE 6  
### UNION SECURITY  
6.1 All employees covered by this Agreement and coming under the jurisdiction of the Union, as set forth in  
Article 2 shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the appropriate Local Union within eight (8)  
days following the date of their employment, and shall remain members in good standing during the term of this  
Agreement. "Good standing” for the purpose of this Agreement is interpreted to mean all employees shall  
maintain their membership with current month's dues paid in their Local Union. When an employee fails to  
tender to an authorized agent of the Union such initiation fees or periodic union dues as are required for good  
standing membership, the Employer will, upon written request from the Union, dismiss the employee at the close  
of the shift.  
6.2 Union Security, shall not be applicable on work within the state of Idaho until the repeal or modification of  
the Idaho Right-to-Work law enabling the legal implementation of the clause, at which time the clause s hall  
automatically become applicable to work performed within the state of Idaho.  
### ARTICLE 7  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
7.4 If a contractor bound by this Agreement contracts or subcontracts any work covered by this Agreement  
to be done at the job site of the construction, alteration, or repair of a building, structure or other work to any  
person or proprietor who is not signatory to this Agreement, the Employer shall require such subcontractor to be  
bound to all the provisions of the Agreement, such contractor shail maintain daily records of the subcontractor  
employees' job site hours, and be liable for the payment of these employees’ wages, travel, Health & Security,  
Retirement, Credit Union, and Apprenticeship and Training contributions (or differential) in accordance with this  
Agreement.  
-2-  
    
7.2 In the areas of drywall, acoustical and insulation, if the Employer is unable to find qualified competitive  
Union subcontractors, Aricle 7 will be waived by mutual agreement after review of the bids by the Union under  
the following conditions: .  
7.2.1 (A) If the contractor receives three (3) union subcontractor bids on any one segment of work  
(drywall, acoustical and insulation) referenced above, the contractor will select and use one of the union  
subcontractors.  
7.2.2 (B) if three (3) union subcontractor bids are not received on any segment of work (drywall,  
acoustical and insulation) referenced above, then the Employer may use the non-signatory subcontractor  
provided: ,  
7.2.3 (C) The non-signatory subcontractor’s bid is more than 5% lower than the lowest union  
subcontractor bid, this bid may be used by the Employer, provided the non-signatory subcontractor is an  
established licensed contractor who has operated within the territory of the Agreement.  
7.3 Exemptions beyond these areas as referenced in 7.2 must be agreed to by the Union prior to the start of  
work.  
_ 1.4 Whenever the Employer is obligated to satisfy MBE-WBE requirements, the Union and the Employer will  
agree to waive this provision in the event an Employer and Union are unable to find qualified competitive Union  
MBE-WBE subcontractors prior to the bid opening. This provision shall not be implemented with any intent other  
than to meet MBE-WBE requirements.  
7.5 [t is understood that this Article applies only to work jurisdiction claimed by the United Brotherhood of  
### Carpenters and Joiners of America.  
### ARTICLE 8  
### HOURS OF WORK - SHIFTS - OVERTIME  
8.1 The work week will start with the first shift on Monday and conclude with the third shift on Friday. Eight  
(8) hours per day shall constitute a standard work day between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. with one-  
half (%) hour unpaid lunch period. Hours of work may be changed by the Employer with twenty-four (24) hour  
orior notification to the Union. Forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday, shall constitute a regular work  
week.  
8.2 Employees will be at their place of work, ready for work, at the start of the shift. The place of work shall  
be defined as the gang or tool box or equipment at the employee's assigned work location. Dry and/or lunch  
shacks and/or check-in locations shall be placed as near the gangbox or work location as possible. Crews on  
_ shift will be given adequate time to gather up their tools before quitting time. Employees being terminated or laid  
‘ off shall be given adequate time to collect tools and belongings prior to the end of the shift. On jobs where the  
. Employer or owner prohibits private vehicles beyond a designated area, the Employer will furnish a manhaul or  
. permit the employees sufficient time to walk to the parking lot by quitting time.  
8.3 Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours per day Monday through Friday, or outside the normal shift,  
and atl work on Saturdays shall be paid at time and one-half the straight time rate. A il work performed on  
Sundays and Holidays shall be paid at double (2) the straight time rate of pay. In no case shall overtime pay  
exceed double the straight time rate of pay. The Employer shall have the sole discretion to assign overtime work  
to employees with consideration of retention of the Job Steward (See Article 12).  
8.4 Shifts may be established when considered necessary by the Employer. Shift hours and rates will be as  
follows:  
8.4.1 Two Daylight Shift Operations: On a two consecutive shift operation, no shift differential is involved  
for work performed on either of these two shifts. Each shift must be scheduled for at least eight (8) hours except  
as provided for in Section 1 of this Article. On a two shift operation, the second shift shall be established for a  
minimum of three (3) days. Once the starting times are established for the two shift operation, they shail not be  
changed except upon three (3) days’ notice to the Union.  
8.4.2 Three Shift Operation: On a three shift operation, the following shall apply:  
-3-  
FIRST SHIFT: The regular hours of work on the first shift of multiple shift operations shall be eight (8)  
hours of continuous employment except for lunch period at midshift, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and  
6:00 p.m.  
SECOND SHIFT: The second shift shall be seven and one-half (7 4) hours of continuous employment  
except for lunch period at midshift, and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at the straight time hourly rate.  
THIRD SHIFT: The third shift shall consist of seven (7) consecutive hours of employment, except for  
lunch period at midshift, between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at  
the straight time hourly rate.  
8.4.3 SPECIAL SHIFTS: When due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer, or when contract  
specifications require that work can only be performed outside the regular day shift, then by mutual agreement a  
special shift may be worked at the straight time rate, eight (8) hours work for eight (8) hours pay. The starting  
time shall be arranged to fit such conditions of work.  
If employees are called back to the job without receiving an eight (8) hour break between shifts, they  
shail continue at the applicable overtime rate. .  
8.5 Option for 4-Ten Hour Shift:  
The Employer may, at his option, establish a first and/or second shift consisting of ten (10) hours of  
work, exclusive of a one-half (%) hour non-paid funch period per day, that shall constitute a normal forty (40)  
hour work week, provided that it does not conflict with Federal, State or local regulations or laws. The Employer  
can change from a 5-eight to a 4-ten hour schedule or back to the other, subject to the limitations that it will give  
the Union at least seven (7) calendar days’ notice of such change and maintain such shift for a minimum of one  
(1) work week. All hours of work on these shifts shall be paid for at the basic straight time hourly wage and  
fringe rate, overtime will apply after ten (10) hours. N o ten hour second shift may be established without a  
preceding ten hour first shift. (Also see Article 16)  
8.5.1. In the event the job is down for any reason beyond the Employer's control, including holidays as defined  
by Article 10, then Friday may, at the option of the Employer, be worked as a voluntary make-up (no employee  
shall be terminated for refusal to work a make-up day).  
8.6 Weekend Shutdowns:  
Where the work is started and completed within a period between 12:00 p.m. Friday night and 8:00 a.m.  
the following Monday morning, all work will be performed at the time and one-half (1%) the applicable rate.  
8.7 On a project working a makeup day, if one (1) carpenter is paid overtime, all affected carpenters will be  
paid the applicable overtime rate.  
### ARTICLE 9  
### LUNCH  
9.4 Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours from the start of their shift without a  
one-half (%) hour (nor more than one <1> hour) break for lunch. This period shall not begin earlier than three  
and one-half (3 ¥%) hours after the start of the shift and shall not begin later than five (5) hours after the start of  
the shift. !f they are required to work past this time and they are denied time to eat, they shail be paid at the  
applicable overtime rate until such time as they are allowed to eat their lunch. if not allowed to eat lunch,  
employees will be paid an additional one-half (%) hour of overtime. Employees required to work more than two  
(2) hours after the end of the regular shift shall be allowed to at least one-half (2) hour meal period which shall  
be considered as time worked, and if it is impractical for the employees to leave the job, they shall be provided a  
lunch by the Employer.  
9.2 Employee's lunch period may be staggered during the period of three and one-half (3 %) to five (5) hours  
from the start of the shift to cover necessary work of a continuous nature.  
### ARTICLE 10  
### HOLIDAYS  
10.1 The following seven (7) days shail constitute the recognized holidays within the terms of this Agreement.  
If any of the following holidays falls on a Sunday, Monday will be observed as the holiday. If any holiday falls on  
-4-  
a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as a holiday. The holiday shall be the twenty-four (24) hour  
period commencing with the established starting time of the day shift on the day of the holiday.  
New Year's Day Thanksgiving Day  
Memorial Day Friday after Thanksgiving  
Independence Day Christmas Day  
Labor Day  
10.2 Nowork shall be performed on Labor Day except to save life or property.  
### ARTICLE 41  
### PAY DAY  
41.1. Employees shall be paid in full prior to quitting time on the jobsite once each week (on the same day),  
but in no event shall more than five (5) days' (Saturday, Sunday and holidays excluded) wage be withheld.  
If the regular payday falls on a holiday, the employee shall be paid on the last regular work day before  
the holiday.  
An employee's pay check stub or attached statement shall contain an itemized statement showing the  
breakdown of straight time hours, overtime hours, rate of pay, and all authorized deductions, and must indicate  
the name and address of the Employer. In the event an employee receives an N. S. F. Check, thereafter all  
payments shall be made by cash or certified check and he/she shall be considered not paid timely and shall  
receive eight (8) hours pay for every Twenty Four (24) hour period thereafter until! he/she receives cash or  
certified check in full payment. D ocumented b ank errors will be exempt from the initiation of eight (8) hour  
penalty.  
No adjustment of disputed pay will be made unless the employee or the Union shall make a claim in  
writing to the Employer's representative ten (10) working days from the pay period in question.  
11.2 Anemployee shall be paid in full when discharged during normal working hours. When employees are  
laid off or discharged, payment shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours (Saturday, Sunday, and Holidays  
excepted). In the event that payment is not made within twenty-four (24) hours (Saturday, Sunday, and Holidays  
excepted), he/she shall receive two (2) hours pay at the applicable wage rate for each twenty-four (24) hour  
period thereafter until said check is mailed to an address of the employee's choice. The postmark on the  
envelope will serve as the cutoff for any penalty.  
11.3 Employees who quit shall be paid not later than the next regular pay period.  
### ARTICLE 12  
### UNION REPRESENTATIVES & JOB STEWARDS  
12.1. The authorized and credentialed representatives of the Union having jurisdiction over the work covered  
by this Agreement shall be allowed admission to any job at any time for the purpose of investigating conditions  
on the job; provided, however, that they shall give notice to the office or superintendent of the job.  
12.2.1 The Union shalf submit in writing to the Employer the names of its job stewards, whenever possible, and  
changes of job stewards as may occur from time to time, and the Employer shall recognize such job  
stewards selected by the Union. Oral notification of job stewards will be acceptable whenever written notice is  
not practical.  
12.2.2 Every job steward shall perform work for the Employer to the same extent as other employees, however,  
a job steward may take reasonable time off from his regular duties when an employee (or group of employees)  
desires to take up with the job steward any matter which is believed to be in violation of this Agreement. In such  
cases, before leaving his work area, the job steward shall inform his immediate supervisor where he wishes to  
go and shall secure permission to leave. The Steward shall also report back to the supervisor on his return.  
12.2.3. When forces must be reduced, if all other considerations are equal, the steward shall not be discharged  
except for just cause and shall remain on the job provided that there are at least four (4) carpenters on the  
-5-  
project. When a job steward must be taid off or discharged, the Union will be notified forty-eight (48) hours prior  
to such action. Ajob steward will be given a reasonable amount of time to take up his report once a week.  
12.2.4 Each shift may have a job steward. No job steward shall be allowed to solicit membership in his  
organization or to collect any monies from any employees on the job during working hours. No job steward will  
be discharged by the Employer because of his Union activities.  
12.2.5 Stewards are not authorized to threaten, direct or cause a work stoppage or slowdown.  
### ARTICLE 13  
### SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES & GRIEVANCES  
13.1 {t is mutually agreed that there shall be no authorized strikes, lockouts, or other slowdowns or cessation  
of work by either party on account of any labor differences pending the utilization of the grievance procedure as  
_ get forth below, provided that employees covered by this Agreement shall not be expected to pass through a duly  
authorized picket line. |  
13.2 STEP 1: In the event that a dispute arising on the job cannot be satisfactorily adjusted on the job  
between the representative of the Union involved and the Employer, the same shall promptly (not later than five  
(5) working days), be referred to the authorized representative of the Union and the Employer or his/her  
authorized representative. Should they fail to effect a settlement:  
STEP 2: They shall refer the matter to a Board of Conciliation within fifteen (15) working days of which  
Board shall consist of two (2) persons appointed by each party, and if these four (4) persons cannot effect a  
settlement within seven (7) days after the dispute has been referred to them:  
STEP 3: An Arbitration Committee, consisting of one (1) representative of the company, one (1)  
representative of the Union and a third member to be chosen by these two (2). In the event the two (2)  
representatives designated by the parties shall be unable to agree upon the third member of the Arbitration  
Committee within ten (10) days, the Federal Conciliation Service, State Mediation or the American Arbitration  
Association shall be requested to submit a list of qualified and approved arbitrators, one of which shall be  
selected to act as a third member of the Committee, in accordance with the rules of the agency that submits the  
panel.  
13.3 This decision shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto. Any decision rendered shail be within  
the scope of this Agreement and shall not change any of its terms or conditions. The arbitrators shall, in their  
decision, specify whether or not the decision is retroactive and the effective date thereof.  
13.4 Failure of either party to select their representative for the purpose of arbitrating a dispute upon this  
section within thirty (30) days from the date such arbitration is requested shall result in the dispute being adjusted  
in favor of the complaining party.  
13.5 Any mutual expense incurred in the process of arbitration shall be borne equally by the Employer and the  
Union.  
13.6 It is further understood that the grievance procedure above set forth shall not be used for the purpose of  
arriving at an agreement to supersede this Agreement.  
13.7 By mutual agreement the aforementioned time-frames in this article may be waived or extended.  
### ARTICLE 14  
### JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
14.1 The parties agree that there will be no cessation or stoppage of work because of jurisdictional disputes  
pending settlement by the following outlined procedures.  
14.2 The Employer who has the responsibility for the performance and installation shall make a specific  
assignment of the work as follows:  
14.3. Where a decision of record applies to the disputed work or where an agreement of record between the  
disputing trades applies to the disputed work, the Employer shall assign the work in accordance with such  
-6-  
agreement or decision of record. Decisions of record are applicable to all trades. Agreements of record are  
applicable only to the parties signatory to such agreements. Where no decision or agreement applies to the  
work, the Employer shail assign the disputed work in accordance with the prevailing practice in the locality. The  
locality for the purpose of determining the prevailing practice shall be defined ordinarily to mean the geographical  
jurisdiction of the tocal Building and Construction Trades Council in which the project is located.  
14.4 If the disputed work cannot be satisfactorily settled between the Local Unions and the Employer, the  
Local Unions shall promptly submit the dispute to the International Unions who shall meet with the Employer to  
review the issues and settle the dispute.  
14.5 It wilt be a violation of the Agreement by the Employer or by the Union if the Employer or the Union fails  
to abide by the decision reached under this procedure or by an arbiter or decision of record.  
14.6 Craft jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded by classification and/or scope of work appearing in  
any Labor Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 15  
### HEALTH, SAFETY AND ACCIDENT PREVENTION  
15.1.1. The Employer shall comply with the Safety Standards for construction work in the State of Washington  
and the Idaho Minimum Safety Standards:and Practices for Building and Construction Industry and Federal!  
Safety Standards as required by law in the appropriate areas affected by this Agreement. This Agreement is not  
intended to, nor shall it be construed as creating, recognizing or imposing, on the Union or its agents, any  
common law duties in the areas of safety. All foremen and general foremen shall carry a current first aid card.  
15.1.2 In the event of an injury requiring hospitalization to an employee, the Employer shall notify the proper  
Steward and Union of the injury as soon as possible. industrial reports received by the Employer are to be  
signed and processed immediately by the Employer.  
15.2.1 Clean, cold, fresh drinking water and sanitary, disposable cups shall be kept in close proximity to the  
workmen at all times. Ice to be furnished during hot weather upon request of the Business Representative.  
15.2.2 Toilets, urinals, or latrines in clean and sanitary conditions shall be provided on all jobs according to  
State and Federal requirements.  
15.3.1 To improve the general safety conditions on the job, the Employer will furnish clean and sanitary items of  
safety equipment and will require the employee drawing such equipment, to sign an authorization permitting a  
deduction as a deposit against the return of the equipment.  
45.3.2 Rubber gear other than to normally turn foul weather and welding or burning protective equipment such  
as hoods, goggles, lens, teather welding gloves and jackets, etc., shall be supplied on ail jobs where needed, in  
suitable conditions and sizes to each worker. These are to be charged to the worker who is to guarantee their  
return, regardless of condition. In case of intentional destruction, it will be charged to the employee.  
### 15.4 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:  
Employers agree to abide, where applicable, by the most stringent provisions of the following regulations  
as they may pertain to a particular contract:  
1) Federa! Regulations  
2) State Regulations  
3) DOE Regulations in the area of the particular project.  
4) Regulations of any other nuclear energy plant owner from whom the employer holds a  
construction contract.  
Employers agree to plan work for the most even distribution of radiation/nazardous materia! exposure  
amongst the employees consistent with efficient utilization of manpower.  
### 15.6 HAZ-MAT MATERIALS:  
Anyone working on a HAZMAT job (task), where HAZMAT certification is required, shall be  
compensated at a premium, in addition to the classification the person is working in as follows:  
-7-  
### LEVEL D: + $.25 PER HOUR  
Footnote: This is the lowest level of protection. No respirator is used and skin protection is minimal.  
### LEVEL C: + $.50 PER HOUR  
Footnote: This level uses an air purifying respirator or additional protective clothing.  
### LEVEL B: + $.75 PER HOUR  
Footnote: Uses same respirator protection as Level A. Supplied air line is provided in conjunction with a  
chemical "splash suit.”  
### LEVEL A: + $4.00 PER HOUR  
Footnote: This level utilizes a fully encapsulated s uit with a self-contained breathing apparatus ora  
supplied air line.  
Where employees are required to wear glasses, the company shall furnish the required masked glasses.  
Employees shail be paid HAZ-MAT pay in increments of four (4) and eight (8) hours.  
### ARTICLE 16  
### SHOW UP - STANDBY & CALL BACK  
16.1 _.In the case of work shutdown caused by inclement weather, the Employer shall be diligent in attempting  
to notify the employee by phone or other means as is practical. A prudent attempt at notification will relieve the  
Employer of his obligation under Article 16.2.  
16.2 Employees who have not been given notice not to report to work two (2) hours prior to the  
normal starting time of their shift who report for work shall receive:  
inside the 15-mile Radius Zone: One (1) hour reporting pay  
Outside the 15-mile Radius Zone: Two (2) hours reporting pay  
16.3 Employees prevented from completing the shift due to inclement weather after the one (1) hour  
minimum shall be paid for actual time worked and applicable fringes.  
16.4 An employee prevented from completing the shift due to causes other than weather and equipment  
breakdown shall receive the following showup pay: On eight (8) hour shift schedules after the one (1) hour or  
two (2) hour minimum an employee who works more than one (1) but less than two (2) hours shall receive two  
(2) hours pay; an employee works more than two (2) but less than four (4) shall receive four hours pay; an  
employee who works more than four (4) hours shall receive actual time worked at the applicable straight time  
and overtime rates plus all other applicable compensation. On ten (10) hour shift schedules after the one (1)  
hour minimum or the two (2) hour minimum an employee who works more than (1) but less than five (5) hours  
shall receive five (5) hours pay; an employee who works in excess of five hours shall receive actual time worked.  
16.5 If an employee leaves of his own volition, he shall be paid for actua! time worked at applicable straight  
and overtime rates. When employees leave the job because of premeditated persona! reasons, motel  
allowances shall be pro-rated.  
### 16.6 EMERGENCY CALL OUT:  
In the event an employee has left the project and is called back to perform overtime work after his shift,  
or on Saturday, Sunday or holidays, such employee shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the applicable  
overtime rate, applicable allowances and fringe benefits. All call out work over four (4) hours shalt be paid for  
actual time worked, but at no time will an employee be required to work more than five (5) hours without an  
opportunity to eat lunch (lunch period provision to apply - Article 9).  
### ARTICLE 17  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
17.1. The parties to this Agreement acknowledge and agree to comply with the requirements of Federal and  
State laws, Executive Orders and other rules and regulations governing civil rights to insure that there shall be no  
discrimination in employment against any employee or applicant for employment because of age, race, color,  
religion, sex, or national origin.  
17.2 The parties hereto recognize that the Employers compliance with project specifications is of paramount  
importance. It is mutually agreed, therefore, by the parties tc this Agreement that provisions of this Agreement  
will be interpreted, applied and enforced in a manner that will serve to assure compliance with project  
specifications as they relate to recruiting, training, and hiring.  
### ARTICLE 18  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
18.1 lf any provision of this Agreement or the application of such provisions shall, in any court or government  
action, be held invalid, the remaining provisions and the application shall not be affected. And provided further,  
that the parties shall immediately proceed to negotiate a valid provision and Article 14 shall not apply to this  
### Article.  
18.2 The Employer and the Union may enter into Addendums covering work performed on Indian lands and  
under the contro! of Tribal Councils.  
### ARTICLE 19  
### PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS  
### WASHINGTON AND IDAHO STATE  
Public Works Projects - Davis Bacon Act & Related Statutes  
19.1. Inthe event the Employer bids a public job or project being awarded by a Federal, State, County, City or  
other public entity which is to be performed at a pre-determined and/or prevailing wage rate established pursuant  
to the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act (Public Law 74-403 (8/30/35) as amended 3/23/41 and 7/2/64 (40USC  
276A as amended)) or established by the Industrial Commission of Washington pursuant to the provisions of  
Title 39 RCW (39.12) prevailing wages on public works - Washington State, Prevailing Wage on Public Works,  
the published hourly wage set forth in said public award in effect at the time of bid shail apply for the first twenty-  
four (24) months from initial notice to proceed for work covered under the contract with the owner.  
Upon written request, the Employer will provide a copy of the notice to proceed to the Local Unions having  
jurisdiction of the project. The fringe benefit contribution rates shall be those as established and maintained by  
the Master Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, the project agreements may be mutually agreed upon to  
allow use of the pre-determined wage for the duration of a project to exceed twenty-four (24) months.  
19.2 In the event the specifications include an escalator provision covering wages, such amount will be  
included as an increase to wages to the extent that the Employer may recover in the escalator claim.  
19.3. The Employer will, when requested in writing, supply accurate and reliable information on company  
stationery that will assist the Union in establishing the correct Davis-Bacon rates when responding to DOL  
requests for prevailing wage data.  
### INTERPRETATIONS:  
1. When wage and fringe are printed as prevailing rate, then pay the published wage and the  
Master Agreement fringe.  
2. When wage only is printed and is less than the agreement wage, then pay the published wage  
and the Master Agreement fringe.  
3. When wage only is printed and is greater than the agreement wage, then subtract the Master  
Agreement fringe to get the wage. (Wages will not be decreased in order to maintain benefit.)  
-9-  
### ARTICLE 20  
### SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
20.1 Both parties recognize that there may be extenuating circumstances when it is to the mutual interest of  
both parties to modify the terms of this Agreement. In that event, it will not be a violation of this Agreement for  
the parties to meet and mutually agree to make such modifications to meet a specific need on a specific project.  
20.1.2 In order to maximize the effect of this provision, all crafts will be requested to act uniformly. The general  
contractor shall request his/her subcontractors to comply with any modifications granted under this provision.  
20.2 Whenever non-union contractors are present on a bid list or negotiating for a job, this Article may be  
implemented upon request. Where no union bidders are presentona bid list, the Union will request union  
contractors to bid that work whenever possible. This Article will be denied any non-signatory contractor or any  
double-breasted contractor. Any decisions concerning Special Conditions of this Agreement shall be final and  
binding on all parties.  
### ARTICLE 21  
### CRAFT SCHEDULES  
21.1. The classifications for employees, wage rates, effective dates, health and security, pensions, training  
and other benefits funds, and other considerations of employment, shall be as provided in the separate  
schedules attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement.  
21.2. An individual retirement plan, such as a 401K, 401A, or an annuity program, may be established by the  
Union, with the agreement of the Employer on an individual employee basis. Such a program shall be at no cost  
to the Employer. The plan participants will be for all costs associated with the plan.  
### ARTICLE 22  
### EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION  
22.1. This successive principle Agreement shall become effective as provided in this Article when signed by  
### the Inland Northwest AGC and the Pacific Northwest Regiona! Council of Carpenters of the United Brotherhood  
of Carpenters and Joiners of America and its affiliated Local Unions having jurisdiction in the territory designated  
in Article 5.  
22.2 All workmen covered by this Agreement shall be classified and paid in accordance with the  
classifications and wage rates as set forth in the Schedules attached hereto, and hereby made a part of this  
Agreement, and no other classifications or wage rates shall be recognized unless this Agreement shall be  
modified as provided for in the Schedules of this Agreement.  
22.3. This amended Agreement shall become effective upon all work June 1, 2003, and shall remain in full  
force and effect until May 31, 2006, and from year to year thereafter unless notice is given in writing by the Union  
or the Employer to the other party.  
22.4 Except by mutual written agreement, termination of this Agreement or any annua! contract effectuated |  
through automatic renewal, must, to the exclusion of all other methods be perfected by given written “Notice of  
Termination" not later than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration  
date, whereupon the contract shail, on its expiration date, terminate. Effective termination eliminates automatic  
renewal. The parties shall begin negotiations within thirty (30) days after receipt of any notice.  
22.5 Any "Notice of Opening" or “Notice of Termination” given within ninety (90) days of any expiration date  
shali be absolutely null and void and completely ineffective for all purposes.  
### ARTICLE 23  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
23.1 Labor and Management are committed to providing employees with a drug-free and alcohol-free  
workplace. It is the goal to protect the health and safety of employees and to promote a productive workplace,  
and protect the reputation of Labor and Management and the employees.  
-10-  
Consistent with those goals, the Employer prohibits the use, manufacture, possession, distribution or  
sale, at its employment sites, of drugs, drug paraphernalia or A program of urine testing, pursuant to the  
Substance Abuse Program, may be instituted, upon mutual consent of Labor and Management which consent  
shall not unreasonably be withheld, to monitor compliance with this policy.  
The Substance Abuse Program is contained in a separate addendum to this Collective Bargaining  
Agreement.  
Drug testing shall be handled through a third party administered “Clean Card” system, paid for in its  
entirety by management. Management and labor have named a sub-committee to develop the program.  
-1l-  
### AGREEMENT DATED  
JUNE 1, 2003 THROUGH MAY 31, 2006  
### INLAND NORTHWEST AGC PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGIONAL  
(a chapter of the Associated COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS  
General Contractors of America, Inc.)  
Tim Welsh, Chairman John Steffens  
Negotiating Committee Executive Secretary/Treasurer  
Thomas J. Flynn, Regional Manager  
-12-  
### SCHEDULE A-1  
### CARPENTERS  
### JOURNEYMAN CLASSIFICATIONS 6-1-2003 6-1-2005*  
Carpenter - Spokane Area  
Insulation / Apoticator $ 23.21 $ 23.91 $ 24.51  
Carpenter - Columbia River Area  
Insulation / Applicator $ 23.88 . $24.58 $ 25.18  
### JOURNEYMAN CARPENTER CLASSIFICATIONS INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING:  
Burner-Welder  
Rigger and Signaler  
Insulators (all types), Acoustical, Dry Wall and Metal Studs, Metal Panels and Partitions  
Floor Layer, Sander, Finisher & Astro Turf  
Layout Carpenter  
Form Builder  
Rough Framer  
Outside or Inside Finisher; including doors, windows and jams  
Sawfiler  
Shingler (wood, composition) Solar, Fiberglass, Aluminum or Metal  
Optical Instrument Specialist  
Scaffold Erecting & Dismantling  
Stationary Saw-off Bearer  
Wire, Wood and Metal Lather Applicator  
  
  
= ©  
*  
—> =)  
### WN:  
### MILLWRIGHTS & MACHINE ERECTORS  
### JOURNEYMAN CLASSIFICATIONS  
6-1-2003  
Millwright Machine Erector  
Spokane Area $ 24.31 $ 25.01 $ 25.61  
Millwright Machine Erector  
Columbia River Area $ 24.99 $ 25.69 $ 26.29  
### JOURNEYMAN MILLWRIGHT & MACHINE ERECTOR CLASSIFICATIONS INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING:  
1. Rigger 4. Optical Instrument  
2. Welder 5. Power Tool Operator  
3. Burner  
   
   
*The increase on 6/1/04 and 6/1/05 shall be committed to wages except additional monies may be taken to  
Health & Welfare, Pension, and Apprenticeship Training. Notification on the implementation of the fringe  
option must be made thirty (30) days prior to the scheduled increase.  
   
         
-]3-  
### PILEDRIVERS  
Includes: Driving, pulling, cutting, placing collars, setting, welding, or creosote treated material on all  
piling .  
### JOURNEYMAN CLASSIFICATIONS  
6-1-2003 6-1-2004" 6-1-2005*  
Piledrivers  
Spokane Area $ 23.47 $ 24.17 $ 24.77  
Piledrivers  
Columbia River Area $ 24.15 $ 24.85 $ 25.45  
(Includes: Bridge, Dock & Wharf Carpenters)  
6-1-2003 6-1-2004* 6-1-2005"  
Piledrivers / Carpenters .  
Spokane $ 23.21 $ 23.91 $ 24.51  
Piledrivers / Carpenters  
Columbia River Area $ 23.88 $ 24.58 $ 25.18  
### FOREMAN/GENERAL FOREMAN IN ALL CLASSIFICATIONS:  
FOREMAN shall receive one dollar seventy-five cents ($1.75) per hour above the highest paid  
journeyman wage classification working under him. |  
GENERAL FOREMAN will be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour over foreman rate, if one is used at the  
option of the Employer.  
    
Should the classifications not provided for herein become involved, such classifications and th  
wage rates for same shall be negotiated by the Employer and the Union.  
Any Carpenter, Millwright and Machine Erector, or Piledriver covered by this Agreement shall be supervised by a  
Foreman/General Foreman of their respective craft, when one is employed.  
### CARPENTER APPRENTICE RATES  
First Period -3Months -60% Fifth Period - 6 Months - 80%  
Second Period -3Months -65% Sixth Period - 6 Months - 85%  
Third Period -6Months -70% Seventh Period - 6 Months - 90%  
Fourth Period -6Months -75% Eighth Period - 12 Months - 95%  
### MILLWRIGHT & MACHINE ERECTOR APPRENTICE RATES  
First Year - 70% of Journeyman Rate  
Second Year -75% of Journeyman Rate  
Third Year - 80% of Journeyman Rate  
Fourth Year -85% of Journeyman Rate  
### PILEDRIVER APPRENTICE RATE  
First Period - 3 Months - 60% Fifth Period - 80%  
Second Period - 3 Months - 65% Sixth Period - 6 Months 85%  
Third Period - 6 Months - 70% Seventh Period - 6 Months 90%  
Fourth Period -6 Months - 75% Eighth Period -12 Months 95%  
   
   
‘The increase on 6/1/04 and 6/1/05 shall be committed to wages except additional monies may be taken to  
Health & Welfare, Pension, and Apprenticeship Training. Notification on the implementation of the fringe  
option must be made thirty (30) days prior to the scheduled increase.  
    
   
     
-14-  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
6-1-2003 6-1-2004" 6-1-2005"  
Health & Security $ 3.80 $ 3.80 $ 3.80  
Pension $ 2.00 ‘$ 2.00 $ 2.00  
Supplemental 80 & out Pension  
Program $ .50 $ .50 $ .50  
- Apprenticeship &  
Training 45 45 .45  
Total $ 6.75 $ 6.75 $ 6.75  
   
*The increase on 6/1/04 and 6/1/05 shall be committed to wages except additional monies may be taken to  
Health & Welfare, Pension, and Apprenticeship Training. Notification on the implementation of the fringe  
option must be made thi Q prior to the scheduled increase.  
   
     
Union Deductions (3.85%) (3.85%) (3.85%)  
No Pension contributions will be paid for carpenter apprentices during the 1st, 2nd and 3rd periods, Millwright  
apprentices during the first year and piledriver apprentices during the ist, 2nd, and 3rd periods.  
### (A) UNION DEDUCTIONS-DUES CHECK OFF:  
In accordance with terms of an individual and voluntary written authorization for check-off of membership  
dues or deductions in form permitted by the provisions of S ection 3 02(c) of the Labor Management Act, as  
amended, the Employer agrees to deduct for working dues or deductions an amount from wages once each  
week, which has been authorized by the membership, as of June 1, 2003. The working dues or deductions  
which are deducted shall be paid monthly by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month in which  
they are deducted.  
Beginning June 1, 2003, the new rate for union dues deduction is 3.85% of the taxable hourly wage rate  
converted to a cents per hour, times all hours worked. Carpenters foremen, general foremen, or  
superintendents would be charged using the journeyman carpenter wage rate.  
Example: A carpenter is paid $21.56 per hour. $21.56 times 3.85% = $ 0.83. $ 0.83 times 40 hours  
worked for the week = $33.20 dues deduction for the week.  
An apprentice carpenter is paid $17.25 per hour. $17.25 times 3.85%= $0.66 .$0.66 times 40  
hours worked for the week = $26.40 dues deduction for the week.  
A carpenter working 48 hours (eight hours overtime) would be charged $0.83 times 48 hours  
worked for the week = $39.84 dues deduction for the week.  
A carpenter foreman is paid $23.06. Journeyman rate is $21.56. $21.56 times 3.85% = 0.83.  
$0.83 times 40 hours worked = $33.20 dues deduction for the week.  
Note: The authorization for withholding these dues or deductions is to be faxed or sent directly from the Union to  
the Employer’s designated office.  
### DISPATCH POINTS & ZONE CENTERS  
Carpenters locals dispatch jurisdiction shall be as listed below. Each jurisdiction controls the area of the Local  
as outlined on the map. Dispatch and allowances (where applicable) will be computed from the dispatch point or  
the established post office residence of the employee.  
Carpenters Locals No. 2205 - Wenatchee, and No. 770 - Yakima / Ellensburg in their territory east of the 120th  
Meridian, observe all terms and conditions of the Western Washington Carpenters Agreement. (See Article 5).  
### DISPATCH & ZONE PAY ALLOWANCE  
### ALL TRADES  
It is agreed and understood that while traveling to and from work, the employees are not within the course and  
scope of their employment, and the relationship of the Employer-employee does not commence until the  
applicable hourly wage rate applies, or as mandated by law.  
1) Employees who qualify for allowances shall be paid for days worked or part thereof and shall be  
-15-  
paid full allowances. Likewise, employees who qualify for show up time shall also qualify for full allowances.  
When employees leave the job because of premeditated personal reasons prior to lunch period, allowances shall  
de prorated.  
2) Zones shall be as established on the master map with copies available for alt Locals.  
3) Within sixty (60) miles from the proper dispatch point, the Employer will not be required to pay  
zone pay as outlined if the Employer provides adequate, covered and safe transportation daily and round trip for  
the employee. !f the Employer provides transportation, the employee shall be considered to be under the  
direction of the Employer within the scope of his employment and the employee shall be considered to be under  
the coverage of the State Industrial Insurance laws of Washington and Idaho.  
4) Should an employee through no fault of his own and at the request of the Employer make more  
than one (1) trip to the job within a twenty-four (24) hour period, the employee will be reimbursed for applicable  
allowances on the basis of total trips made to the job.  
### ZONE PAY ALLOWANCE  
### ALL TRADES  
Zone 4 O- FREE  
Zone 2 46- 65 Miles $2.00/per hour  
Zone 3 66 - 100 Miles $3.00/per hour  
Zone 4 100 Miles & over $4.50/per hour  
### DISPATCH POINTS  
### CARPENTERS LOCAL 1849 - PASCO / MILLWRIGHTS LOCAL 1699 - PASCO  
PASCO (2819 W. Syivester) or the Main Post Office of established residence of employee for the area  
of the Agreement - (509) 545-9339 / (509) 547-7739  
### CARPENTERS LOCAL 98 - SPOKANE  
SPOKANE (127 E. Augusta Ave., Ste. 101) or the Main Post Office of established residence of  
employee for the area of the Agreement - (509) 326-0900  
### PILEDRIVER LOCAL 2382 - SPOKANE  
SPOKANE (127 E. Augusta Ave., Ste. 103) or the Main Post Office of established residence of  
employee for the area of the Agreement - (509) 326-0880  
### CARPENTERS LOCAL 2205 - WENATCHEE  
WENATCHEE (27 N. Chelan) or the Main Post office of established residence of employee for the area  
of the Agreement - (509) 662-7653  
### CARPENTERS LOCAL 1691 - COEUR D' ALENE  
COEUR D' ALENE (1839 N. Government Way, Ste. 102) or the Main Post Office of established  
residence of employee for the area of the Agreement - (208) 765-4575  
### CARPENTERS LOCAL 313  
MOSCOW (302 N. Jackson) or the Main Post Office of established residence of employee for the area  
of the Agreement - (208) 882-2508  
- 16-  
; Wf  
4  
### SCHEDULE A:ll  
### TRUSTEE QUALIFICATION CRITERIA  
In order to qualify as a Management Trustee on any Board of Trustees herein after designated, a  
Management Trustee must be a signatory Employer, or full time non-bargaining unit employee of the signatory  
contractor, or a regular officer of the Employer, who contributes to the respective Trust fund, or a full-time staff  
person of a signatory Employer Association.  
### TRUSTS  
SECTION 1. HEALTH & SECURITY PROVISION. | n addition to the wage rates listed in the Schedules  
' attached hereto, the Employers shall pay into a Health and Security Trust Fund known as the “"Washington-ldaho  
Carpenters-Employers Health and Security Trust Fund," or any successor or merged Trust, effective June 1,  
2003, three dollars and eighty cents ($3.80) per compensable hour worked for all employees covered by this  
Agreement dated June 1, 2003. Payments shal! be made monthly on or before the 15th of the month following .  
that for which contributions are being made and shail be deposited in a delegated bank or banks in accordance  
with the negotiated Trust Agreement dated August 15, 1957, between the signatory Employers and the  
Washington State Council of Carpenters, District Councils and signatory Local Unions of the United Brotherhood  
of Carpenters and Joiners of America and the individual members thereof. The signatory Employers agree to  
_ abide by all the terms and conditions of the Trust Agreement and any amendments heretofore or hereafter  
adopted. The Trust Agreement, as amended, is incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement.  
The monies collected shall be used to provide benefits for employees and their dependents as outlined under  
Section 302 C5 of the National Labor Relations Act as amended. At the sole discretion of the Board of Trustees  
of the Washington-ldaho Carpenters-Employers Health and Security Trust, monies collected may or may not  
also be used to provide benefits for retirees and/or their dependents eligible for and receiving benefits under the  
Washington-Ildaho-Montana Carpenters-Employers Retire Trust. If the Board of Trustees elects to provide  
benefits for retirees and their families, such benefits may be terminated or revoked at any time by the Board of  
Trustees at their sole discretion.  
SECTION 2. RETIREMENT PROVISION. | n addition to the wage rates listed in the Schedules attached  
hereto, the Employers shall pay into a Retirement Fund known as the “Washington-ldaho-Montana Carpenters-  
Employers Retirement F und," effective June 1, 2003, two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per compensable  
hour worked for all employees covered by this Agreement dated June 1, 2003. Such payments shall be made  
monthly on or before the 15th of the month following that for which contributions are being made and shall be  
deposited in a delegated bank or banks in accordance with the negotiated Trust Agreement dated July 20, 1965,  
between the Inland Northwest Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America and the Washington  
State Council of Carpenters, District Councils and signatory Local Unions of the United Brotherhood of  
Carpenters and Joiners of America and the individual members thereof. The signatory Employers agree to  
abide by all the terms and conditions of the Trust Agreement and any amendments heretofore or hereafter  
adopted. The Trust Agreement, as amended, is incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. APPRENTICESHIP & TRAINING PROVISION. In addition to the wage rates listed in the  
Schedules attached hereto, the Employers shall pay into an Apprenticeship and Training Fund known as the  
"Washington-ldaho Carpenters-Employers Journeyman and Apprenticeship Training Trust Fund," effective June  
1, 2003, forty-five cents ($.45) per compensatable hour worked for all employees covered by this amended  
agreement dated June 1, 2003. Such payments shali be made monthly on or before the 15th of the month  
following that for which contributions are being made and shall be deposited in a delegated bank or banks in  
accordance with the negotiated Trust Agreement dated January 9, 1965, between the Inland Northwest Chapter  
of the Associated General Contractors and the Washington State Council of Carpenters, District Councils and  
signatory Local Unions of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America and the individual  
members thereof. The signatory Employers agree to abide by all the terms and conditions of the Trust  
Agreement and any amendments heretofore or hereafter adopted. The Trust Agreement, as amended, is  
incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement. NOTE: Six cents ($.06) committed to  
Carpenter’s International Training Fund, remitted monthly to the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of  
Carpenters.  
SECTION 4. In order to eliminate onerous book and record keeping burdens on all parties, Employers will  
make contributions to each of the funds by means of one check and one report to include all funds. Pro rata  
-17-  
costs of the report forms will be paid by the funds equally. The Fund Administrator and the depository bank  
working jointly will distribute the contributions as outlined in the report and this schedule.  
SECTION 5. tn the event an Employer fails to make the required monetary contributions in conformity with  
Sections 1, 2, and 3 of this Article, the Union may take any economic action necessary to insure the proper  
collection of these contributions.  
SECTION 6. FAILURE TO PAY CONTRIBUTIONS. Severe penalties for delinquencies are provided in the  
Trust Agreements.  
### SCHEDULE "3"  
### CARPENTERS HIRING HALL PROCEDURE  
SECTION 1. (A) in compliance with Section 8 (f), subsections 3 and 4 of the National Labor Relations Act  
as amended in 1959, the Union agrees to maintain hiring halls at each Local Union office. At each hiring hall,  
lists shall be maintained of qualified workmen without regard to membership or non-membership in the Union.  
From the lists, the Employer will give the hiring hall dispatcher the first opportunity to refer qualified applicants for  
employment to the Employer. Applicants will be listed according to minimum training or experience qualifications  
for employment and will be given priorities in opportunities for employment based upon length of service with  
such Employer in the industry or in the particular geographical area.  
(B) Applicants for employment shall register at the hiring hall during customary office hours.  
Office hours, hiring hall procedures and rules will be plainly posted at all times. All applicants shall be registered  
in order of time and date of registration and classified according to type of work in lists as follows:  
The term "Carpenter" covers all classifications in the Master Agreement  
### =OUT OF WORK LIST REQUIREMENTS=  
SECTION 2. (A) All applicants and registered apprentices shall sign the respective out-of-work tist of any  
Local Union in Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho.  
(B) Dispatches will be given to *Qualified Carpenters and State approved registered  
apprentices on the out-of-work list in numerical order except when called by name or called on an open call basis  
for a specific skill, i.e., millwright, welder, sheetrock applicator, or to fulfill minority or female requirements. tn  
those cases, the first person on the list who meets the requested criteria and is available will be dispatched.  
(C) EMPLOYMENT OF OLDER WORKERS. Labor and Management agree to enhance  
work opportunities for workers over fifty (50) years of age, and agree to operate in a non-discriminatory manner  
in hiring and termination on job sites covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 3. = (A) Whenever the Employer requires carpenters covered by this Agreement on any job, the  
Employer shall give preference in hiring to applicants from the Local Union having jurisdiction who are qualified  
to perform the work. The Employer will notify the local union office having jurisdiction either by telephone or in  
writing stating the job location and number of carpenters required. the Union shall refer carpenters to the  
Employer by name with a dispatch slip at the request of the Employer or his agent.  
(B) All requests by name will be in writing from the Employer.  
(C) When an employee is referred to the job by the Union, such referral shall be on a non-  
discriminatory basis, not affected by membership or non-membership, past or present union activities, or age,  
sex, face, creed, color or national origin.  
(D) It is further agreed that all union carpenters employed by the Employer shall maintain  
their membership with current month's dues and/or assessments paid in their Local Union or Regional Council.  
(E) Failure of any employee to pay or tender normal initiation fees or dues as required by  
this Agreement shall upon the request of the Union in writing, result in the termination of such employee.  
- 18-  
i  
“Sot  
### SCHEDULE "Cc"  
### CARPENTERS WORK RULES  
1. TOOLS (Employees):  
All employees must have their tools sharp and in good condition before going on any job. Sharpening of tools  
shall be the responsibility of the Employer. Employees shal! be allowed time to file saws and sharpen tools, or  
Saw Filer must be employed on the job, or they may be taken to Union shop for sharpening at the Employer's  
expense. Tools sharpened will be returned at time of layoff or suitable arrangement will be made for their return.  
2. TOOLS (Employers):  
(a) The Employer shail, at the start of a job, furnish suitable place for keeping employees’ tool kits and  
same to be provided with suitable lock for protection during non-working hours. The Employer will maintain  
insurance to protect employees against loss of tools by fire, flood, robbery from forced entry, or by damage  
from any Employer equipment and work clothing lost by fire, flood and forced entry. Employers will require a  
list of tools and work clothing so stored. Employees will fill out a tool list and will inform the Employer of  
additional tools as they are added or subtracted from the list, or the Employer will not be obligated to replace  
them should a loss occur. Replacement for clothing will be understood to mean work clothing and rain gear  
only. Tools and clothing outlined will be replaced with comparable tools and clothing only.  
(b) The Employer shall, at the start of a job, furnish warm, dry, suitable change rooms of ample size  
equipped with heat for drying clothes and with benches and tables for use during lunch periods. Same to be  
situated close to the site of the work.  
(c) No Employer shall require and no employee shall furnish on any job, transit, mortising equipment,  
optical instruments, baring machine, power saw, power jointer, ladder, trestle, bench, miter box, bit over one  
inch (1") except expansion bit or wrench over the size of a 12" crescent, welding or burning protective .  
equipment, or similar equipment. The above equipment must be furnished by the Employer.  
### 3. TRANSPORTATION:  
Ail transportation or drayage furnished by the Employer shall afford the maximum protection against the  
exposure to the elements and the cost of such transportation shall be borne by the Employer. No  
transportation will be furnished on the job during working hours by the employee.  
### 4. FOREMAN / GENERAL FOREMAN:  
The Employer shall be the sole judge of the need for the number of and the responsibilities of supervisory  
personnel, and the Union shall in no way interfere with the performance of the Foreman/General Foreman in  
carrying out his responsibilities as directed by the Employer. There will be no restrictions in crafts to be  
supervised by the Foreman/General Foreman. Transportation will be provided to Foreman at the option of the  
Employer.  
### APPRENTICESHIP & TRAINING  
SECTION 1. Recognizing the need for an adequate supply of qualified carpenters, the contractor and the  
Union mutually agree to actively promote, and participate in, joint apprenticeship and retraining programs  
designed to meet this need.  
SECTION 2. Such programs which exist or are developed to achieve this end and are supported in whole or  
in part from funds derived from this Agreement shall:  
(A) Be jointly administered by equal representation of Management, as appointed by the contractor,  
and labor as appointed by the Union.  
(B) Comply with all applicable State and Federal regulations governing same.  
(C) Issue certification of achievement to each person satisfactorily completing the programs' uniform  
standards as established by parties to this Agreement.  
-19-  
(D) Predicate an applicant's entrance of advancement in the program solely upon results of  
placement examinations designed to reflect the minimum tevel of ability necessary to satisfactorily perform he@®  
requirements of any given level.  
The apprentice will be removed from the job for just cause by his Employer upon receipt of request from  
appropriate apprenticeship and/or training committee. Also for non-payment of dues or initiation fees.  
(E) A separate out-of-work list for apprentices shall be maintained at each hiring hall. The method  
of selection and dispatching of apprentices shall be determined by each local J.A.T.C. and shall become part of  
this Agreement.  
(F) The employment of apprentices shall be in accordance with the following ratios:  
(4) Each Employer may employ one apprentice for each of the first five (5) carpenters in his  
employ, but he must employ one (1) apprentice when he has five (5) or more journeymen in his employ.  
(2) In addition to number one, each Employer shall employ one (1) additiona! apprentice for  
each five (5) journeymen.  
(3) The above mandatory requirement for employment of apprentices are subject to the  
availability of these employees.  
(G) Provide wages in accordance with herein attached Schedules "A" for the following defined  
classification:  
APPRENTICE: One who is actively enrolled in a State or Federal approved joint apprenticeship program  
designed to provide on-the-job and related classroom training sufficient to permit a person to meet the minimum  
uniform standards of a qualified journeyman carpenter.  
(H) When an apprentice is be laid off or discharged for cause, the Union will be given forty-eight (48)  
hours prior notice.  
(I) All apprentices shall be required to attend related training classes as per the J.A.T.C. schedule.  
carpenter and piledriver apprentices shail take time off the job without pay for one (1) week, approximately once  
every three months. The apprentice will be notified in advance of the scheduled dates and should notify the job  
supervisor of the scheduled days for training.  
(J) It is agreed that all the contractors will continue to maintain and support apprenticeship training  
on a single craft basis.  
-20-  
### CLARIFYING ATTACHMENT  
### CARPENTER AND PILEDRIVER  
May 13, 1955  
| am herewith submitting the findings of the General Executive Board on the controversy between carpenters and  
piledrivers classifications in the west coast area.  
Further revised and clarified by the General Executive Board, December 12, 1967.  
The work jurisdiction of our carpenters and piledriving branches of our Brotherhood on the West Coast shall be  
as follows:  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
RP rt  
(5)  
In the construction of water front and marine facilities, such as docks, piers, wharves,  
bulkheads, jetties and similar structures, the piledriver classification shall continue to apply, up to  
and including the decking thereof.  
On ail piledriving and caisson work, on both land and water, the piledriver classification shall  
apply.  
in the construction of heavy timber, wooden bridges, whether over land or over water, the  
Piledriver classification shall apply.  
In the construction of concrete or steel bridges over land, highways, railroads, overpasses,  
cloverleafs, interchanges, or bridges over man-made canals, aqueducts, spillways and man-  
made water retaining areas, the piledriver classification shall apply to the driving of the piles,  
caissons and “drilled-in place” piling. The fabrication and erection of the forms for the capping  
of piles, caissons, or “drilled-in-place" piling shall come under the piledriver classification. This  
shail include the placing of wooden or steel capping or any substitute thereof. Any other form  
work above the cap, pertaining to the construction operation; herein noted above shall be  
performed under the carpenters classification. This shall also include bridges over man-made  
canals, aqueducts, spillways and man-made water retaining areas, if constructed prior to water  
being released or turned into the area.  
In the construction of concrete or steel bridges over water, in fabrication and erection of the form  
work for the pier or piers in the water area, and the pier abutment, on land, nearest to the  
water's edge, shall be under the piledriver classification. This shall include the fabrication and  
erection of the form work to the top of the pier, column and abutment supporting the steel and/or  
any other superstructure.  
The fabrication and erection of forms for the piers, columns or abutments for the  
approaches to the first pier or abutment on water's edge, shall be under the carpenters  
Classification. This shall apply also on a bridge over an area where the flow of water has  
been temporarily diverted.  
### BUILDING FOUNDATIONS  
All form work required on building foundations shall be under the carpenters classification, irrespective of  
the use of piles or caissons.  
### CAPPING OF PILES OR FORM WORK ON TANK FOUNDATIONS  
The capping of piles and form work in connection therewith, when there is not other carpenter form work  
involved above the capping or floor base of tank, shall be under the piledriver classification. Where  
further Carpenter work is required above the capping or tank base, then the carpenter classification shall  
apply on entire operation including the forms for pile capping and/or tank base.  
-21-  
### BASE FOUNDATIONS FOR MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT AND STANCHIONS  
The fabrication and erection of all forms for machinery, bases, equipment or stanchions. shat! be under  
the carpenters classification, irrespective of the use for piles or caissons.  
### THE ERECTION OF FALSEWORK, INCLUDING METAL TUBULAR  
### (or "Tinker Toy") MATERIAL USED AS FALSEWORK  
The erection of falsework necessary for the support of work under the piledriver classification comes  
under their classification. Falsework necessary for the support of the work under the carpenters  
classification shall be governed by their classificatiun except on a project where piledriving power  
equipment is used.  
The rigging, signaling, tagging and other incidental work shall be under the classification for whom the  
work is designed by this paragraph.  
In the construction of open cut sewer, the piledriver classification shall apply on all piling including wood,  
steel or concrete sheet piling, all bracing timber and form work incidental to the construction thereof.  
In concluding this report the General Executive Board believes that these revisions and clarifications herein  
outlined will tend to solve much of the misunderstanding that has existed between the two classifications of our  
membership on the West Coast. All of the above shall be effective only in the West Coast area where the  
controversy occurred.  
Fraternally yours,  
siM. A. Hutcheson  
General President  
-22-  
Daily Labor Report - Eastern Washington Carpenters Approve  
    
    
|  
No. 175  
Wednesday, September 10, 2003  
ISSN 1522-5968  
Construction  
Eastern Washington Carpenters Approve  
Three-Year Accord With Contractors’ Group  
   
Page 1 of 1  
Page A-4  
News  
Members of the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters in eastern Washington Sept. 6 voted to  
approve a new three-year agreement with the Associated General Contractors that provides wage and benefit  
increases totaling $2.10 per hour for about 1,000 carpenters on commercial projects in eastern Washington  
and northern Idaho.  
The agreement was narrowly approved, passing by a six-vote margin among the 728 votes cast, an official  
with the union's regional office in Spokane said. The votes were counted three times before the result was  
made official, he said.  
Wayne Brokaw, executive director of AGC's chapter in Spokane, confirmed the settlement.  
The close vote was attributed to about half the unions’ members who work under a project agreement at the  
Hanford Nuclear Reservation and who generally opposed the proposal. The same group was instrumental in  
voting down a $2 per hour, three-year AGC offer earlier this summer.  
A federal mediator assisted the parties in the protracted negotiations.  
New Rates for Area Carpenters  
Of the first-year increase of 80 cents per hour, 30 cents was allocated to wages for a new journey-level rate of  
$23.71 per hour. The remaining 50 cents went to the health and welfare fund, now $3.80 per hour. Continued  
unchanged are employer contributions of $2.50 to the local pension fund and 45 cents to the apprentice  
training and journeyman upgrade fund. The first increase was retroactive to June 1, according to the union.  
Allocation of the second-year, 70-cent increase and the third-year, 60-cent increase between wages and  
benefits will be decided when the increases take effect. >  
Copyright © 2003 by The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc., Washington D.C.  
   
http://pubs. bna.com/ip/BNA/dlr.nsf/is/a0a7j0p9t6  
9/10/03