   
    
      
   
International Union of Operating Engineers/Local 370  
Affiliated with  
P.O. Box 3386 *« 510 « SPOKANE, WA 99220 (5(19} 624-5365 © FAX (509) 624-5554 AFL-CIO  
### i CURT KOEGEN Ct BGT O  
### Business Manager = $LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
   
   
Jurisdiction  
Eastern Washington  
And  
State of idaho  
* 64  
### PAPE RMILL PRINTING  
### COVERING  
### COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL & RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION BETWEEN  
### INLAND NORTHWEST  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### AND  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 370  
AUGUST 1, 2007 TO MAY 31, 2010  
SECTION 1. This understanding entered into the Ist day of June, 2007, shall apply to all  
commercial, industrial and residential projects including grading, Jrainage, bridge, concrete operations,  
crushing and paving.  
SECTION 2. The understanding shall cover the jurisdictional area described as in Article 4,  
Territory, of the Master Labor Agreement and that falls within a 15 mile radius of Kennewick, Richland, Pasco,  
Lewiston, Walla Walla, Pullman, Moscow and Moses Lake. Spokane is defined by area map. (Maps defining  
areas are attached.)  
SECTION 3. The work performed on the project shall be for all construction within the  
recognized jurisdiction of the Union.  
SECTION 4. The individual portions of the work allowec! to be bid separately is as follows:  
1) PAVING $ 500,000  
2) Crushing < See note $ 500,000  
3) Grading & Clearing ... $ 500,000  
4) Bridges & Related Work .. $ 500,000  
5) Utilities .. Unlimited  
6) Buildings ... $ 2,000,000  
(Excluding Mechanical &  
Combination bids shall not exceed the individual limits agreed to above fcr each portion of the bid.  
    
         
   
   
   
     
    
     
### NOTE RE: CRUSHING  
= On crushing. operation for public works projects when orevail ng rates are applicable, it is understood  
‘that the Mater Labor Agreement and the prevailed rates are applicat le. to the production process: once it is  
started through to completion of the crushing. All work related to moving. in, setting up and moving out is  
rates will apply.  
### ADOPTION OF MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT  
The parties agree to be bound by, to adopt and incorporate by reference as a part of this understanding all of the  
terms and conditions (including all monetary contribution requirements) of the labor agreement.  
### SHIFTS - HOURS OF WORK - OVERTIME  
SECTION 1. Work may commence or finish at ary time to comply with the owner's  
requirements. The employee's time shall start the job site and end at juitting time on the job site, excluding  
lunch period.  
SECTION 2. There will be no shift differential on two-shift operations. Other shifts shall be as  
outlined in the Master Agreement. Pay will be for actual time worked.  
### REPORTING PAY - MINIMUM PAY  
Employees who cannot work a full shift because of conditions beyond the control of the Employer shall be paid  
for actual time worked.  
### WORK RULE CHANGE - SPECIAL CREW MANNING RULES  
SECTION 1. The Foreman requirements of the Master Agreement do not apply. The contractor  
may designate any person of any craft to act as a non-working Foreman when needed.  
SECTION 2. There will be no Oiler unless deemed necessary by the Employer.  
### NOTIFICATION  
The Employer shall notify the union when a job is to be performed under this Agreement. Prior to starting work,  
a pre-job conference and/or markup shall be held between the contractor and the union when requested.  
### COMPLIANCE AGREEMENT:  
An Employer to be eligible to utilize the terms of this understanding must be party to the master labor  
oe  
   
### WORK CLASSIFICATIONS  
SECTION 1. The classification of employment shall be as set forth in the wage schedules of the  
master agreement and shall be computed at etghtfive-pereent-(85%.} for Building Construction-_and-_ninety  
percent (90%) for Heavy-Highway Construction of the classification.  
SECTION 2. Wage rates for Apprentices shall be computed on 80% of the Journeyman scale as  
established in this understanding; however, the minimum apprentice rate shall be $9.00 per hour.  
### EFFECTIVE DATE & DURATION  
It is mutually agreed and understood by the parties signatory hereto, tha! this understanding shall be in full force  
and effect as of Junel, 2007, termination shall coincide with the master agreement.  
### SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
In order to preserve work for the union members and make the Employer more competitive on all projects, the  
Union and the Employer may mutually agree to put this understanding into effect on projects higher than the  
coverage allowed in Section 4. In addition, both parties may mutually put in to effect special wages and  
eo” for specific areas or projects for a specific period of time.  
### L.U.0.E. LOCAL NO. 370 INLAN NORTHWE T ¥GC.  
sly ¥/v7  
### CURT KOEGEN Date  
Chairman,  
Negotiating Committee chet my z Committee  
### INLAND NORTHWEST AGC  
(a chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.)  
&  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENG! NEERS, LOCAL #370  
JUNE 1, 2007 TO MAY 31, 2010  
### INDEX  
Asbestos/Toxic Waste Work 4  
Craft 17  
Effective Date & 17  
Equal Employment Opportunity 14  
Health Care Legislation 18  
9  
Hours of Work, Shifts, Overtime 6-8  
Jurisdictional 12-13  
DWN 55500 Psion ene suns BOR voc EG FE vs Wha fo nnn oan nF we 8  
Management’s Rights 3  
Overlapping Jurisdiction & Emergency Work Assignment 16-17  
### OVETTIIMEG 8  
Pay 9-10  
Preamble 2  
Public Works 15-16  
Purpose Of Agreement 2  
Savings 14-15  
Scope OF oi Si vans 5  
Settlement of Disputes & 11-12  
Show Up, Standby and Call 14  
Special Comditions 17  
Strikes & Picket Lines 5  
Subcontracting — Owner/Operator 5-6  
18  
5 tes es as se on Sort mas Eien 3  
Union Security 4-5  
Union Representation & Job Stewards cnn 10-11  
Warranty of Authority  
Work  
Work Affected  
SCHEDULE “A” (Wages & Fringes)  
Fringe Bere  
APpprentiCe  
Dispatch Point  
SCHEDULE “A-II” (Shop Personnel)  
### SCHEDULE “B”  
SCHEDULE “C” (Hiring Hall)  
### SCHEDULE “D” (Work  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
   
### Ee HOE RASH EAH tT Ket ee  
   
P.]  
P.2  
P.3  
1.1  
1.2  
1.3  
### INLAND NORTHWEST AGC  
(a chapter of the Associated General Contractois of America, Inc.)  
&  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL #370  
6-1-07 TO 5-31-16  
### PREAMBLE  
This Agreement is a successive principle agreement to the EASTERN WASHINGTON  
### & NORTHERN IDAHO INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS,  
LOCAL #370 2004-2007 industry agreement, and all other prior agreements thereto by  
### and between the INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL  
#370, and the INLAND NORTHWEST AGC (a chapter of the Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc.)  
For purposes of this Agreement, the AGC is acting as a multi-employer bargaining agent  
for and on behalf of the Employers who have the AGC to act as their  
bargaining agent.  
This is a collective bargaining Agreement between members of the INLAND  
NORTHWEST AGC, INC. (referred to as the “Employer”), and the INTERNATIONAL  
UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL #370 acting for and on behalf of all of  
their Local Unions, (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”), shall constitute an  
Agreement between the parties hereto for the work, conditions and wage rates provided  
for herein in the territory Eastern Washington-Northern Iclaho.  
### ARTICLE I  
### PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT  
The purpose of this Agreement is to promote the settlement of labor disagreements by  
conference, to prevent strikes and lockouts, to stabilize wages and working conditions in  
BUILDING, HEAVY & HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION work in the area affected.  
Bylaws of either party are not part of this Agreemen!. It is agreed and understood  
between the parties hereto that this Agreement contains all the covenants, stipulations and  
provisions agreed upon by the parties hereto.  
The Associated General Contractors acting on behalf of those member firms who have  
authorized it to bargain on their behalf hereby recognize the Union as the sole and  
exclusive bargaining agent for all International Union of Operating Engineers, Local  
#370 performing work for such Employers within the territorial jurisdiction of this  
Agreement.  
The Union recognizes the Associated General Contractors as the exclusive bargaining  
agent for each Employer who has authorized the Associated General Contractors to  
negotiate with the Union on its behalf.  
   
2.1  
oie  
2.3  
3.1  
3.2  
4.1  
5.1  
### ARTICLE 2  
### WORK AFFECTED  
The persons, firms, associations, corporations, joint ventures, or other business entities  
party to or bound by the terms of this Agreement as “Employer” or “Employers”.  
This Agreement applies to and covers all Operating Engineers’ work to be done at the  
site of the construction on all building, heavy and highway projects as defined in Article  
5, or other work interpreted and applied in accordance with the National Labor Relations  
Act, as amended.  
The term “Operating Engineers’ work” refers to persons performing certain job functions.  
It also refers to craft classifications. It does not refer to union membership or affiliation.  
### ARTICLE 3  
### MANAGEMENT?’S RIGHTS  
The Employers retain full and exclusive authority for the management of their operations.  
The Employers shall direct their working forces at their sole prerogative, which includes  
but is not limited to hiring, promotion, transfer, layoff or discharge for just cause. No  
rules, customs, or practices, shall be permitted or observed which limit or restrict  
production, or limit or restrict the working efforts of employees. The Employers shall  
utilize the most efficient methods or techniques of construction, tools, or other labor  
saving devices. There shall be no limitations upon the choice of materials or design. The  
Employers shall schedule work, shall determine when overtime will be worked, and the  
number of employees to be utilized.  
The foregoing enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to exclude other  
functions not specifically set forth. The Employers, therefore, retain all legal rights not  
specifically covered by this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 4  
### TERRITORY COVERED  
This Agreement shall cover all INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING  
ENGINEERS, LOCAL #370 work in the following courities East of the 120" Meridian:  
Adams, Asotin, Benton, Chelan, Columbia, Douglas, Ferry, Franklin, Garfield, Grant,  
Kittitas, Lincoln, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Spokane, Stevens, Walla Walla, Whitman and  
Yakima in the State of Washington; and Benewah, /3onner, Boundary, Clearwater,  
Kootenai, Latah, Lewis, Nez Perce, Shoshone, and that part of Idaho County North of  
Parallel 46 in the State of Idaho.  
### ARTICLE 5  
### WORK COVERED  
Building: Building construction shall be defined to include, but not limited to, building  
structures, including modifications thereof, or additions or repairs thereto, intended for  
use for shelter, protection, comfort or convenience. Building construction shall include  
the demolition of buildings and excavation of foundations for building construction.  
3  
   
5.2  
5.3  
5.4  
6.1  
6.2  
6.3  
6.4  
Highway: Highway construction shall be defined 10 include, but not limited to,  
constructing roads, streets, alleys, including crushing and paving (Portland Cement and  
Asphaltic Concrete), sidewalks, guard rails, fences, parkways, parking areas, airports,  
bridle paths, athletic fields, highway bridges, grade separations involving highways, and  
construction of sewage and waterworks improvements incidental to street and highway  
improvements.  
Heavy: Heavy construction shall be defined to include, but not limited to, constructing  
railroad projects, railroad bridges, heavy construction sewers and water mains, grade  
separations involving a railroad, foundations, pile driving, piers, abutments, retaining  
walls, viaducts, tunnels, subways, track elevated highways, drainage projects, sanitation  
projects, aqueducts, irrigation projects, flood control projects, reclamation projects,  
reservoirs, water supply projects, water power development, generators, atomic energy  
development, missile sites and launching facilities aad all work pertaining thereto,  
hydroelectric development, transmission lines, pipelines, locks, dams, dikes, levees,  
revetments, channels, channel cutoffs, intakes, dredging projects, jetties, breakwaters,  
docks, harbors, industrial sites, (including paving operations), excavation and disposal by  
contract of overburden and the loading by contract cf all materials from which the  
overburden has been removed, including the operation and maintenance and repair of all  
land and floating plant, equipment, vehicles, and other facilities used in connection with  
and serving the aforementioned work and services.  
Asbestos/Toxic Waste Work: This Agreement shall also cover all work in connection  
with the handling, control, removal, abatement, encapsulation or disposal of asbestos,  
toxic waste, mold and/or lead abatement.  
### ARTICLE 6  
### UNION SECURITY  
Pursuant to and in conformance with Section (a) 3 and 8 (b) 5 of the Labor Management  
Relations Act as amended, it is agreed that all employee: coming under the terms of this  
Agreement shall be required to join the Union within eight (8) days following the date of  
employment or within eight (8) days following the date of signing this Agreement,  
whichever is later, and as a condition of continued employment must maintain  
membership in good standing for the life of this Agreement and any renewal thereof  
Good standing shall be defined as the payment of nortnal initiation fees and dues, as  
prescribed by law.  
Employers performing work covered by this agreement shall, in filling vacancies, utilize  
and be bound by the registration facilities and referral systems established by the Unions  
signatory hereto when such procedures are not in violation of State or Federal law.  
In the event the Union requests an Employer to dismiss an employee for failure to  
comply with the provisions of this Article, such requesi. shall be in writing. Copies of  
such a request shall be forwarded to the office of the Company.  
In the event the National Labor Relations Act, as amended should be further amended or  
repealed, then the contracting parties will immediately meet and negotiate a clause in  
6.5  
7.1  
7.2  
7.3  
8.1  
8.2  
9.1  
9.2  
conformity with such changes in order to comply with the spirit of the law in Sections 1  
and 2.  
No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for union activity or  
representation of the Union.  
### ARTICLE 7  
### STRIKES & PICKET LINES  
It is mutually agreed that there shall be no strikes, lockouts or other slow down or  
cessation of work by either party on account of ary labor difference pending the  
utilization of the grievance machinery, as set forth in Article 15.  
Employees will not be discharged, disciplined or permanently replaced for any protected  
activity related to the recognition of a primary picket line approved by the Union party to  
this Agreement.  
As required by law, employees shall be furnished to the Employer during labor disputes  
with other construction crafts and the Employer will endeavor to work as long as  
economically possible during these periods.  
### ARTICLE 8  
### SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  
This Agreement applies to Operating Engineers’ work to be done at the site of the  
construction, alteration, painting or repair of a building, maintenance, or other work that  
may come under this Agreement as defined in Article 5, as interpreted and applied in  
accordance with the National Labor Relations Act, as amended.  
The term “Operating Engineers’” work refers to persons performing certain job functions.  
It also refers to craft classifications. It does not refer to union membership or affiliation.  
### ARTICLE 9  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
The Employer agrees it will not subcontract or otherwise transfer in whole or in part any  
work covered by this Agreement to be done at the site of the construction, alteration,  
painting or repair of a building, structure, or other work unless the person, firm,  
corporation or other business entity is signatory to this Agreement. The Employer agrees  
that an Operating Engineer will be employed by the ):mployer or any contractor or  
subcontractor at the job site if there is work to be done coming under the jurisdiction of  
the Union agreement. The Union agrees that it will not take economic action to enforce  
this Article. In the event of any change in the present law, this clause will be  
renegotiated.  
Whenever the Employer is obligated to satisfy MBE-W3E recruiting requirements the  
Union and the Employer by mutual agreement may waive this provision prior to  
9.3  
9.4  
9.5  
10.1  
commencement of the work in the event an employer and union are unable to find  
qualified competitive union minority subcontractors.  
When potential union subcontractors are not available in the locality of the job site to  
perform the work or where the general contractor receives no competitive union bids, by  
mutual agreement, the Employer and the Union may waive this provision.  
The Employer agrees to retain and exercise the right of control over owner-operators and  
operators of fleet owned equipment where such persons are performing work coming  
under this Agreement on behalf of the Employer. Such persons are acknowledged to be  
and in all respects will be treated as employees of the Employer. Such persons are  
entitled to all of the benefits and subject to all of the obligations of this Agreement, the  
hiring hall only being excluded.  
When equipment hired, rented or leased is used on any job, the employee operating the  
equipment shall be an on the payrofi of the Employer and come under all  
legally enforceable terms and conditions of this Agreernent, including Schedule “A” if  
not otherwise covered by this Agreement. The Emplover will notify the Union within  
twenty-four (24) hours when they hire owner-operators.  
### ARTICLE 10  
### HOURS OF WORK - SHIFTS — OVERTIME  
### SINGLE SHIFT OPERATION:  
(A) Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work, live (5) days shall constitute a  
week’s work, Monday morning through Friday.  
(B) A single shift operation shall be restricted to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00  
p.m., and eight (8) hours of continuous employment (except for lunch period)  
shall constitute a day’s work Monday through Friday of each week. In the event  
the job is down due to weather conditions, Monday through Friday, then Saturday  
may, at the option of the Employer, be worked as a voluntary make-up day at the  
Straight time rate. Saturday shall not be used as a make-up day when a holiday  
falls on Friday.  
(C) Four consecutive ten (10) hour shifts at the straight time rate may be established  
Monday through Thursday. In the event the job is down due to weather conditions  
or holiday, then Friday may, at the option of the Employer, be worked as a  
voluntary make-up day. On ten (10) hour shift schedules all hours worked in  
excess often (10) hours a day must be compensated at the overtime rate. The  
Employer may change from a five-eight schedule to a four-ten or vice versa, but  
must make the change at the beginning of the work week and maintain such shift  
for at least one week. At no time will a crew work a combination of eight (8) and  
ten (10) hour days in the same calendar week.  
(D) No employee shall be discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced or transferred for  
refusing to work a make-up day. Make-up days may only be worked if all of the  
basic crafts on the project are working at the straight time rate.  
6  
   
10.2  
(E)  
(F)  
In the event of a civil emergency such as, but nct limited to, earthquakes, floods,  
or fires, starting time of the shift may be made tv fit the emergency and eight (8)  
hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period may be worked at straight time. In  
order to work such shift, mutual agreement shall received.  
When due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer or when contract  
specifications require that work can only be performed outside the regular day  
shift, then a special shift may be worked at the straight time rate. The starting time  
of work will be arranged to fit such conditions of work. Such shift shall consist of  
eight (8) hours’ work for eight (8) hours’ pay. The Employer must give the Union  
notification prior to the start of a special shift.  
MULTIPLE SHIFT OPERATION: Shifts may be established when considered  
necessary by the Employer. Shift hours and rates will be as follows  
(A)  
(B)  
(C)  
TWO SHIFT OPERATION: On a two consecutive shift operation, no shift  
penalty is involved for work performed on either of these two shifts. Each shift  
must be scheduled for at least eight (8) hours except as provided for in Section 1  
of this Article. On a two-shift operation, the second shift shall be established for a  
minimum of three (3) days.  
Once the starting times are established for the two-shift operation, they shall not  
be changed except upon three (3) working days’ v.ritten notice to the Union.  
THREE SHIFT OPERATION: On a three-shilt operation, the following shall  
apply:  
FIRST SHIFT: The regular hours of work on the first shift of three shift  
operations shall be eight (8) hours of continuous employment, except for lunch  
period at mid-shift, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.  
SECOND SHIFT: The second shift shall be seven and one-half (7 4%) hours of  
continuous employment, except for hunch period «et mid-shift, and shall be paid for  
at eight (8) hours at the straight time rate.  
THIRD SHIFT: The third shift shall consist of seven (7) consecutive hours of  
employment, except for lunch period at mid-shift, and shall be paid for at eight (8)  
hours at the straight time rate.  
MULTIPLE SHIFT (a two or three shift) OPERATION: will not be required  
on the entire project if at any time it is deemed advisable and necessary for the  
Employer to multiple shift a specific operation. Those groups of employees only  
who relieve first shift groups of employees and such first shift groups of  
employees who are relieved by groups of employees on a second shift, and on a  
three-shift operation those groups of employees who relieve the groups of  
employees on a second shift, shall be construed 1s working multiple shifts. The  
intent of this clause shall be construed so as to recognize that a “reliever group”  
and a “relief group” does not necessarily mean “man for man” relief.  
7  
   
10.3  
10.4  
11.3  
(D) It is understood and agreed that when the first shift of a multiple shift (a two or  
three shift) operation is started at the basic straight time rate or at a specific  
overtime rate, all shifts of that day’s operation shall be completed at that rate.  
### GENERAL PROVISIONS:  
(A) CALL OUT: When an employee has completed his scheduled shift and is  
“specifically called out by the Employer” to perform special work of a casual,  
incidental or irregular nature, he shall receive premium pay in accordance with  
the proper overtime rates with a guarantee of two (2) hours’.  
(B) PAVING OPERATIONS: To take full advantage of weather conditions, starting  
time of operations for the paving of asphalt paving, road oiling and concrete  
paving will be at the option of the Employer. However, standby time will be  
considered as part of the regular operation and will be paid for at the regular rate.  
### (C) MAINTENANCE (EXCLUDING EQUIPMENT REPAIR), WATCHMEN,  
FLAGMEN: When no other work is in progress and it is necessary to keep  
maintenance men, watchmen or flagmen on duty on Saturdays and Sundays, they  
will be paid at straight time rates, but allowed two (2) regular consecutive days  
off each week. If these men work more than five (5) consecutive days in any one  
week, the sixth (6) day shall be paid for at time and one-half (11%) the basic rate  
and the seventh (7") day shall be paid for at double (2) the basic rate.  
OVERTIME: Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours per day Monday through  
Friday or ten (10) hours per day, Monday through Thursday, when four ten (10) hour  
shifts are established, or outside the established shift, and all work on Saturdays, or  
Fridays when four ten (10) hour shifts are established, e».cept for a makeup day, shall be  
paid at time and one-half (1'2) the straight time rate. All work performed on Sunday and  
holidays shall be paid at double the straight time rate of pay. The Employer shall have the  
sole discretion to assign overtime work to employees. Primary consideration for overtime  
work shall be given to employees regularly assigned ta the work to be performed on  
overtime situations.  
### ARTICLE 11  
### LUNCH and REST PERIODS  
Lunch will be approximately mid-shift. (See Article 10 for shift definitions). Lunch will  
be no less than one-half (1/2) hour and no more than one (1) hour.  
FIRST HALF SHIFT - LUNCH PERIOD: If an employee is not given at least 30  
minutes to eat in the first half of the shift, 30 minutes at the overtime rate shall be added  
to the hours worked.  
SECOND HALF SHIFT - LUNCH BREAK: All employees must be given time to eat  
after five (5) consecutive hours of work in the second hzilf of the shift. If the employee  
does not get time to eat after five (5) consecutive hours in the second half of the shift, 30  
minutes at the overtime rate shall be added to the employec’s hours worked.  
8  
12.1  
13.2  
13.3  
### REST PERIODS:  
(A) The nature of the construction work covered by this Agreement allows intermittent  
rest periods. Employers shall provide such intermittent rest as work flow permits,  
equivalent to ten (10) minutes for each four hours worked. Scheduled rest periods  
are not required.  
(B) Such intermittent rest periods shall be taken on the work site.  
(C) It will be the responsibly of each employee to take such intermittent rest periods. If  
an employee does not take a rest period, then the employee must notify his  
supervisor and a rest period will be provided.  
### ARTICLE 12  
### HOLIDAYS  
Holidays recognized under this Agreement shall be as follows: NEW YEAR’S DAY,  
### MEMORIAL DAY, INDEPENDENCE DAY, LABOR DAY, THANKSGIVING  
### DAY AND THE FRIDAY AND SATURDAY FOLLOWING, and CHRISTMAS  
DAY. Should any of these holidays fall on a Saturday, the previous Friday shall be a  
holiday, and should any of these holidays fall on a Sunday, the following Monday shall  
be considered a legal holiday and observed as such. A holiday shall be the twenty-four  
(24) hour period commencing with the starting time of the first shift on the day of the  
holiday. No work shall be performed on Labor Day except to save life or property. Work  
on any of the holidays specified herein will be paid at double the regular straight time rate  
per hour. In reference to Independence Day, by mutual agreement, the day observed may  
be changed.  
### ARTICLE 13  
### PAY DAY  
Employees shall be paid in full on company time on the job site, by mail or by direct  
deposit to the employee’s account at a financial institution once a week; swing shift,  
graveyard shift and daylight second shift employees will be paid by the end of  
Thursday's shift, day shift employees will be paid by the end of Friday’s shift, following  
the previous weekly payroll period unless otherwise mutually agreed upon between the  
Union and Employer. When an employee cannot be paid accordingly because of a  
holiday, he shail be paid the last workday of the job before the holiday.  
When an employee voluntarily quits or is terminated for cause, he shall be paid at the  
next regular payday.  
When employees are laid off, they shall be paid in full inimediately or by check or direct  
deposit within forty-eight (48) hours.  
If an employee is not paid in accordance with 13.1, 13.2 or 13.3 he shall receive two (2)  
hours pay for each 24-hour period, or portion thereof, thereafter until said check is mailed  
to an address of the employee’s choice or directly deposited to the employees account.  
The postmark on the envelope will determine if the check was mailed timely or the  
transaction date on the employee’s financial institution éccount will serve as the cutoff  
9  
13.6  
13.8  
14.1  
14.2  
for any penalty. Saturdays, Sundays and recognized holidays are excluded from the 24-  
hour period for determining penalty. Employees must notify the Union within seventy-  
two (72) hours after the payday, layoff or discharge to be eligible for penalty pay.  
Excluding weather and equipment breakdown, employe:s required to “standby” for more  
than forty-eight (48) hours have the option of standing lvy or signing the out-of-work list  
and having notified the company of the latter option is then eligible for payoff on the first  
payday after the layoff.  
Payment shall be made by cash, or check upon which there is no charge for exchange or  
direct deposit. No adjustment of disputed pay will be mnade unless the employee or the  
Union shall make a claim in writing to the Employer’s representative within fifteen (15)  
days from the pay period in question.  
Payroll checks and stubs shall indicate company name, straight time hours, overtime  
hours, rate of pay, itemized legal deductions, to include dues check-off and credit union,  
plus allowances if applicable. In the event an employee receives an N. S. F. check,  
thereafter all payments shall be made by cash or certified check and he shall be  
considered not paid timely and shall receive eight (8) hours pay for every 24-hour period  
thereafter until he receives cash or certified check in sull payment. Documented bank  
errors will be exempt from the initiation of the eight (8) hour penalty. Payroll stubs for  
those employees choosing direct payroll deposit shall be delivered in accordance with the  
procedures in Section 13.1.  
The availability of direct payroll deposit is at the option of the employer. Each employee  
choosing it must sign an authorization before it can be: started. No employee shall be  
discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced, transferred or have any other adverse action  
taken against him/her for refusing to use the direct payroll deposit option.  
### ARTICLE 14  
### UNION REPRESENTATIVES & JOB STEWARDS  
UNION REPRESENTATIVES ON JOBS: The Union representatives shall have  
access to all places where employees covered by this Agreement are employed, and  
transportation will be supplied where necessary.  
### SHOP AND JOB STEWARD RULES:  
1) Shop and Job Stewards shall be appointed by their respective unions. Upon  
appointment, the Union shall identify the Steward to the Employer or his  
representative in writing.  
2) Stewards shall be allowed access to all places where employees covered by this  
Agreement are employed.  
3) Job and Shop Stewards shall be allowed reasonable time for performance of their  
duties and shall be allowed to take care of union problems immediately.  
4) All accidents on the job that cause the employee’:: removal from the job shall be  
reported immediately by the Employer to the Union and the Job Stewards.  
10  
15.1  
15.2  
15.3  
15.4  
5) In the event an employee is injured or becomes ill on the job, the Employer’s  
representative in conjunction with the Steward shall take care of his personal  
belongings and their disposition.  
6) The Union appointed Steward or the Union’s designated replacement, subject to  
the Union’s request, shall be on the job when any work, including overtime, is  
required provided the employee is qualified to do the work available.  
7) Stewards are not authorized to threaten, direct or cause a work stoppage or  
slowdown.  
8) Before a Steward can be terminated, or transferred from a job or shift the  
Employer or his representative shall give the unicn 48 hours notice.  
9) When forces must be reduced, the Steward shall be given preferential treatment  
and be retained over other journeymen providing the Steward can do the work  
involved; except the last Operating Engineer on the job may be the Forman.  
10) There shall be one Steward allowed on each shift on each job per contractor  
unless the distance between the work areas is s) great that one Steward cannot  
police the work; then two (2) Stewards shall be allowed.  
### ARTICLE 15  
### SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES & GRIEVANCES  
It is mutually agreed that there shall be no authorized strikes, lockouts, or other  
slowdowns or cessation of work by either party on account of any labor differences  
pending the utilization of the grievance machinery as set forth below, provided that  
employees covered by this Agreement shall not be expected to pass through a duly  
authorized picket line.  
Failure of an Employer to make wage, travel and/or zone: pay differential, penalty pay, or  
other negotiated fringe payments as outlined in this Agreement, is a violation of this  
Agreement and not subject to the Grievance Procedure a: outlined below. In the event of  
a violation and after forty-eight (48) hour notice to the Employer, the Union shall have  
the right to take economic action against such Employer t> collect such monies owed.  
In the event that a dispute or grievance over the interpretation of this Agreement other  
than jurisdictional or as otherwise called for in this Agreement occurs, no such grievance  
shall be recognized unless called to the attention of the Employer by the Union or to the  
attention of the Union by the Employer in writing or postmarked within fifteen (15) days  
after the alleged violation was committed. The following procedure shall be followed for  
settling grievances:  
### STEP I:  
(A) The individual Employer and the local Union Representative shall attempt to  
settle the dispute on a local basis.  
11  
(B) In the event that the dispute cannot be satisfa:torily adjusted on a local basis  
within five (5) working days, the dispute shall be referred to the authorized  
© representative of the Union and the authorized representative of the Inland Empire  
Chapter of the Associated General Contractors for immediate review and  
settlement if possible.  
15.6 STEP II: If the dispute or grievance remains unsettled after the foregoing procedures, it  
shall immediately be reduced to writing and referred to the Union Negotiating Committee  
and the AGC Negotiating Committee for resolution.  
15.7. STEP Il: Should the Union Negotiating Committee fail to settle the matter within three  
(3) days after written notification of the dispute (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays  
excluded) said dispute shall then be referred to binding arbitration within forty-eight (48)  
hours. An impartial arbitrator shall be selected from. a panel of names of persons  
submitted by the Federal Mediation and Conciliatioa Service. The Union and the  
Employer shall alternately remove names from this panel and the remaining name on the  
panel shall be the arbitrator. The decision of the arbitra‘or shall be within the scope and  
limited to the interpretation of this Agreement upon the points of issue as stipulated and  
shall be final and binding upon the parties. The artitrator shall promptly render a  
decision, but not later than 30 days. Expense of employing said impartial arbitrator shall  
be paid equally by both parties.  
15.8 It is further understood that the grievance machinery set forth above shall not be used for  
the purpose of arriving at an agreement to supersede this Agreement.  
### @ ARTICLE 16  
### JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
16.1 The parties agree that there will be no cessation or stoppage of work because of  
jurisdictional disputes pending settlement by the followiny outlined procedures.  
16.2 The Employer who has the responsibility for the performance and installation shall make  
a specific assignment of the work as follows:  
16.3  
(A) Where a decision of record applies to the disputed work or where an agreement  
of record between the disputing trades to the disputed work, the  
Employer shall assign the work in accordance v,ith such agreement or decision  
of record. Decisions of record are applicable to all trades. Agreements of record  
are applicable only to the parties signatory to such agreements. Where no  
decision or agreement applies to the work, the Employer shall assign the  
disputed work in accordance with the prevailirig practice in the locality. The  
locality for the purpose of determining the prevailing practice shall be defined  
ordinarily to mean the geographical jurisdiction of the local Building and  
Construction Trades Council in which the project is located.  
@ (B) If the disputed work cannot be satisfactorily settled between the local unions and  
the employer, the local unions shall promptly submit the dispute to the  
12  
   
   
16.4  
16.5  
16.6  
17.1  
17.2  
17.3  
17.4  
International Unions who shall meet with the Ernployer to review the issues and  
settle the dispute.  
When requested to do so, Employers covered by this Ajsreement agree to furnish within  
48 hours to the District Councils and local Unions, statements of their past and present  
practices pertaining to work on which there is or may be a pending dispute. Such  
statements shall be written on the individual employer’s letterhead.  
It will be a violation of the Agreement by the Employer or by the Union if the Employer  
or the Union fails to abide by the decision reached under this procedure or by an arbiter  
or decision of record.  
Craft jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded by classification and/or scope of  
work appearing in this labor  
### ARTICLE 17  
### HEALTH, SAFETY AND ACCIDENT PREVENTION  
The Employer shall comply with the Safety Standards fer construction work in the State  
of Washington and the Idaho Minimum Safety Standard: and Practices for Building and  
Construction Industry and Federal Safety Standards as required by law in the appropriate  
areas affected by this Agreement. All foremen and gene:al foremen shall carry a current  
first aid card.  
When physical examinations are required by a State or Federal agency, the Employer  
shall make arrangements for said appointments upon request by the employee and make  
payments for such examinations and pay for time spent getting the examination. This  
paragraph does not apply to ICC requirements.  
DRY SHACK: The dry shack provistons shall be discussed and agreed to at the pre-job  
conference or prior to commencement of work where areed, and the project warrants.  
The Employer shall at the start of the job furnish warm, dry, suitable change rooms of  
ample size equipped with heat for drying clothes and with benches and tables for use  
during lunch periods, and shall be situated close to the site of the work.  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY: <See Addendum>  
Labor and Management are committed to providing ernployees with a drug-free and  
alcohol-free work place. It is the goal to protect the healt: and safety of employees and to  
promote a productive work place, and protect the reputation of Labor and Management  
and the employees.  
Consistent with these goals, the Employer prohibits the use, possession, distribution or  
sale, at its employment sites, of drugs, drug paraphernalia or alcohol. A program of  
testing, pursuant to the Substance Abuse Program, may be instituted, upon mutual  
consent of labor and management, such consents, shall not unreasonably be withheld, to  
monitor compliance with this policy.  
13  
   
18.1  
18.2  
18.3  
18.4  
18.5  
19.1  
19.2  
20.1  
### ARTICLE 18  
### SHOW UP - STANDBY & CALL BACK  
Employees who have not been given notice not to report to work at least two (2) hours  
prior to the normal starting time of their shift who report for work shall receive two (2)  
hours reporting pay and applicable fringes for jobs within Zone one, and four (4) hours  
reporting pay and applicable fringes for jobs within Zone 2. Employees who work in  
excess of these hours shall receive actual time worked al the applicable straight time and  
overtime rates plus all other applicable compensation except as provided in 18.2.  
Employees prevented from starting or completing the sift due to inclement weather or  
conditions beyond the control of the Employer shall te paid actual time worked and  
applicable fringes with a minimum of two (2) hours wages and fringes. Within a twenty-  
five (25) mile radius of the city centers of Moses Lake, Spokane, Pasco and Lewiston and  
Pullman the minimum is one (1) hour wages and fringes.  
In case of sustained inclement weather, the employer and the union shall set up a system  
of transmitting advice to a central point or points so that it will not cause a hardship on  
either the employee or the employer.  
Employees prevented from completing the shift due t> causes other than weather or  
equipment breakdown after the four (4) hour minimum, and in excess of four (4) hours,  
shall receive actual time worked at the applicable straigh: time and overtime rates plus all  
other applicable compensation.  
If an employee leaves of his own volition, he shall be paid for actual time worked at  
applicable straight and overtime rates.  
### ARTICLE 19  
### EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY  
The parties to this Agreement acknowledge and agree to :omply with the requirements of  
Federal and State laws, Executive Orders and other rules and regulations governing civil  
rights to insure that there shall be no discrimination in eniployment against any employee  
or applicant for employment because of age, race, color, rzligion, sex, or national origin.  
The parties hereto recognize that the Employers compliarice with project specifications is  
of paramount importance. It is mutually agreed, therefore, by the parties to this  
Agreement that provisions of this Agreement will be interpreted, applied and enforced in  
a manner that will serve, to assure compliance with project specifications as they relate to  
recruiting, training, and hiring.  
### ARTICLE 20  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
If any provision of this Agreement or the application af such provisions shall, in any  
court or government action, be held invalid, the remainin provisions and the application  
shall not be affected. And provided further, that the partizs shall immediately proceed to  
negotiate a valid provision and Article 15 shall not apply to this Article.  
14  
   
20.2  
21.1  
Die  
21.3  
21.4  
21.5  
22.1  
The Employer and the Union may enter into Addenc'a covering work performed on  
Indian lands and under the control of Tribal Councils. (Refer to Article 28)  
### ARTICLE 21  
### WARRANTY OF AUTHORITY  
This agreement shall become effective when signed by the duly constituted representative  
of the Inland Northwest AGC (a chapter of the Associated General Contractors of  
America, Inc.) acting for and on behalf of the Employers who have individually  
requested the AGC to act as their individual and separa‘e bargaining agent in individual  
employer units and who have also as an individual emrloyer signed the agreement, and  
the duly constituted representatives of the union.  
The persons signing this agreement for the Inland Northwest AGC (a chapter of the  
Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.), arid the persons signing for the  
employer, warrant and guarantee their authority to aci for the association and/or the  
employer.  
The persons signing this agreement on behalf of the union warrant and guarantee their  
authority to act for and bind the Union.  
Each party agrees to notify the other of any employer or local union who becomes  
signatory to this Agreement.  
it is further agreed that the liability of the employer whio accepts, adopts, or signs this  
Agreement or a facsimile thereof, shall be several and not joint, and the liability of the  
local unions who accept, adopt or sign this Agreement or a facsimile thereof, shall be  
several and not joint.  
### ARTICLE 22  
### PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS  
### PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS - DAVIS BACON ACT & RELATED STATUTES  
In the event the Employer bids a public job or project being awarded by a Federal, state,  
county, city or other public entity which is to be performed at a pre-determined and/or  
prevailing wage rate established pursuant to the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act  
(Public Law 74-403 (8/30/35) as amended 3/23/41 and 7/2/64 (40 USC 276A7 as  
amended) or established by the Industrial Commission of Washington pursuant to the  
provisions of Title 39 RCW (39.12) prevailing wages on public works Washington State,  
Prevailing Wage on Public Works and other applicalsle prevailing wage laws and  
regulations,, the published hourly wage set forth in said public work at the time of bid  
shall apply for the first twenty-four (24) months of the project from the date of the notice  
to proceed. The fringe benefit contribution rates for Health and Welfare, Pension and  
Apprenticeship shall be those as established and maintained by the Master  
Agreements. In the event a Health_and Welfare contribulion rate increase exceeds forty  
(.40) cents per hour, any additional amount will be deducted from the employees’, wage  
rate, Notwithstanding the above, project agreements mzy be mutually agreed upon to  
allow use of the pre-determined wage for the duration of a project to exceed twenty-four  
[5  
22.2  
22.3  
22.4  
23.1  
23.2  
23.3  
23.4  
(24) months. The Pension and Apprenticeship increases will be effective on projects  
bid after June 1, 2007.  
Should the rates prevailed on a public works project be less than the negotiated rate, the  
contractor and the union shall mutually agree before reducing the rates below the limits a  
set forth herein.  
In the event the specifications include an escalator »rovision covering wages, such  
amount will be included as an increase to wages to the extent that the Employer may  
recover in the escalator claim.  
The Employer will, when requested in writing, supply accurate and reliable information  
on company stationery that will assist the Union in establishing the correct rates when  
responding to requests for prevailing wage data.  
### ARTICLE 23  
### OVERLAPPING JURISDICTION &  
### EMERGENCY WORK ASSIGNMENT  
### OVERLAPPING JURISDICTION:  
(A) Original manning of a job will be by the Cemerit Finishers, Laborers, Operating  
Engineers, and Teamsters under which jurisdictio: the work falls.  
(B) Overlapping jurisdiction will be allowed to guarantee the contractor eight (8)  
hours work for eight (8) hours pay. Overlapping jurisdiction can only be applied  
after the Cement Finishers, Laborers, Operating Engineers, and Teamsters have  
been notified by the Employer, and all parties hav: agreed thereto.  
(C) If additional manpower is needed; hiring will be done in accordance with craft  
jurisdiction.  
EMERGENCY WORK ASSIGNMENT: The contractor shall be allowed to employ,  
without regard to craft jurisdiction or union affiliation, any of his employees competent to  
fill vacancies caused by injury, sickness, or other unavoidable absence of employees  
beyond the control of the contractor in order to carry the day’s work to completion.  
In such cases, wage rates shall be recognized as applying to the classification rather than  
to the employee, and any employee performing such work shall be paid at the rate for the  
classification of the work which he is required to do; provided that under such conditions,  
no employee shall be paid a lower rate than that of the classification under which he was  
working immediately prior to the temporary assignment herein referred to. In order that  
an employee shall not lose any benefit rights, contributions shall be made on his behalf  
into the trust funds of the craft of his affiliation during the period of such emergency  
work. This Section is not to be used to permit indiscriminate crossing of jurisdictional  
lines.  
In the event of persistent abuses of these provisions, the Union shall have the right of  
redress under Step If, Article 15. In the event flagrant abuses continue following  
determination against a contractor as provided in Article 15, the privilege of this  
16  
   
   
24.1  
25.1  
25.2  
26.1  
26.2  
26.3  
26.4  
memorandum shall be withdrawn from the offending contractor for the duration of this  
Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 24  
### CRAFT SCHEDULES  
The classifications for employees, wage rates, effective dates, health and security,  
pensions, training and other benefits funds, and other corisiderations of employment, shall  
be as provided in the separate schedules attached hereto and made a part of this  
agreement.  
### ARTICLE 25  
### SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
Both parties recognize that there may be extenuating “ircumstances when it is to the  
mutual interest of both parties to modify the terms of this Agreement. In that event, it will  
not be a violation of this Agreement for the parties to nieet and mutually agree to make  
such modifications to meet a specific need on a specific f roject.  
In order to maximize the effect of this provision, all crafis will be requested to act  
uniformly. The General Contractor shall encourage his subcontractors to comply with any  
modifications granted under this provision.  
### ARTICLE 26  
### EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION  
It is mutually agreed and understood by the parties signatory hereto, that this Agreement  
shall be in full force and effect as of June 1, 2007, an:1 shall remain in full force and  
effect without change until May 31, 2010, and from year to year thereafter unless either  
party hereto desires to modify, amend or terminate this Azreement after May 31, 2010, or  
any subsequent anniversary year. Upon its expiration, this Agreement shall continue from  
year to year, June 1 through May 31 of each year, by automatic renewal unless changed,  
superseded by a successor principal agreement, which shal! apply or terminated.  
The party desiring to modify, amend, or terminate this \greement shall serve upon the  
other party written notice of such desire not later than sixty (60) days nor more than  
ninety (90) days prior to May 31, 2010, or later than sixty (60) days or more than ninety  
(90) days prior to May 31 of any subsequent anniversary year thereafter.  
   
Notice as required in this Article shall be served in writing by Certified or Registered  
Mail, postage prepaid and deposited in the U. S. Post Office.  
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be classified and paid in accordance with  
the classifications and wage rates as set forth in the craft schedules attached hereto, and  
hereby made a part of this Agreement, and no other classifications or wage rates shall be  
recognized unless this Agreement shall be modified as provided for in the Craft  
Schedules of this Agreement.  
17  
   
27.1  
28.1.  
28.2  
28.3  
28.4  
### ARTICLE 27  
### HEALTH CARE LEGISLATICN  
In the event of the enactment of any State or Federal legislation which impacts the  
health and security contributions, the parties signatory hereto will  
immediately meet to negotiate the distribution of these funds.  
### ARTICLE 28  
### TRIBAL EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS OFFICES (TERO)  
(Pending Approval from Trustee;)  
When an Employee who is signatory to this Agreement is required by the terms of a  
project contract to comply with TERO hiring requirements the Employer shall notify the  
Union prior to starting any work on the project.  
The Union shall be given the opportunity to fill any manpower needs with individuals  
who are qualified by and registered with the respective TERO prior to the hiring of any  
individual directly from the TERO.  
The Employer shall be allowed to hire individuals directly from the TERO in the event  
the Union cannot meet the TERO qualified and registered manpower needs in a timely  
manner.  
If the Employer is compelled to hire employees directly from the TERO, the Union will  
be provided the opportunity to recruit each employee so hired for Union membership. If  
any employee hired directly from the TERO declines Union membership, and completes  
a waiver of fringe contributions and benefits supplied by the Union, the Employer shall  
be exempt from making said fringe benefit contributions on behalf of the employee and  
shall pay the equivalent amount directly to the employee. This exemption shall apply  
only to those employees qualified by and registered with the TERO and will not apply to  
any work performed by the Employer outside the jurisdiction of the TERO project.  
18  
   
### LABOR AGREEMENT  
### BETWEEN  
### INLAND NORTHWEST AGC  
(a chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.)  
### AND  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 370  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement Including Schedule A (wage scales) has been  
executed by the parties hereto as that date first above mentioned.  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL #370  
CT bo  
Curt Koegen, Chairman Date  
Negotiating Committee  
Operating Engineers, Local #370  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this 1* DAY OF JUNE, 2007, the labor agreement between the  
Inland Northwest AGC and the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local #370 has been  
executed by the INLAND NORTHWEST AGC (a chapter of the: Associated General Contractors  
of America, Inc.), on behalf of certain Individual member firms who have Individually ratified  
this Agreement and have further authorized the Chapter to execute the Agreement on their  
behalf.  
Date "4  
### INLAND AGC  
   
   
   
### SCHEDULE A  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL. #370  
### WAGE RATES  
### HEAVY - HIGHWAY  
     
   
     
    
     
A-separate Schedule covering _rates-of on truetion-shall-be-attached-te  
this-agreement,—For the Jurisdiction of Local 370, Zone rate: will apply to all work outside  
a 45 mile radius from the main post office of Spokane, Pasco, Meses-Lake and Lewiston or  
the main Post Office of the established residence of a employee living in Moses Lake.  
      
      
    
          
   
### ZONE CENTERS: SPOKANE, MOSES-LAKE, PASCO, AND LEWISTON  
ZONE t= 0-45 MILES  
### ZONE 2 = 45 MILES & OVER  
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “0”:  
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
($.65*) ($.80*) ($.75*)  
ZONE 1: $ 22.04 $ 22.69 open open  
ZONE 2: $ 24.04 $ 24.69  
Boat Operator  
Crusher Feeder  
Helper, Mechanic or Welder, H.D.  
Plant Oiler  
Steam Cleaner  
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “1”:  
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
($.65*) ($.80*) ($.75*)  
ZONE 1: $ 22.59 §$ 23.24 open open  
ZONE 2: $ 24.59 $ 25.24  
Bit Grinders  
Bolt Threading Machine  
Compressors (under 2000 CFM, gas, diesel or electric power)  
Deck Hand  
Drillers Helper  
Fireman & Heater Tender  
  
Hydro-seeder, Mulcher, Nozzleman  
Crane Oiler- Driver (CDL required) & Cable Tender, Mucking Machine  
Pumpman  
Rollers, all types on subgrade, including seal and chip coating (faim type, Case, John Deere and  
similar,or Compacting Vibrator), except when pulled by Dozer with operable blade  
Welding Machine  
(* see classifications on page 24)  
20  
   
   
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “2”:  
   
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08  
($.65*) ($.80*)  
ZONE 1 $ 22.91 $ 23.56 open  
ZONE 2: $ 24.91 $ 25.56  
A-Frame Truck (single drum)  
Assistant Refrigeration Plant (under 1000 ton)  
Assistant Plant Operator, Fireman or Pugmixer (asphalt)  
Bagley or Stationary Scraper  
_ Belt Finishing Machine  
Blower Operator (cement)  
Cement Hog  
Compressor (2000 CFM or over, 2 or more, gas diesel or electric power)  
Concrete Saw (multiple cut)  
Distnbutor Leverman  
Ditch Witch or similar  
Elevator Hoisting Materials  
Dope Pots (power agitated)  
Fork Lift or Lumber Stacker, hydra-life & similar  
Gin Trucks (pipeline)  
Hoist, single drum  
Loaders (bucket elevators and conveyors)  
Longitudinal Float  
Mixer (portable - concrete)  
Pavement Breaker, Hydra-Hammer & similar  
Power Broom  
Railroad Ballast Regulation Operator (self-propelled)  
Railroad Power Tamper Operator (Self-propelled)  
Railroad Tamper Jack Operator (self-propelled)  
Spray Curing Machine (concrete)  
Spreader box (self-propelled)  
Straddle Buggy (Ross & similar on construction job only)  
Tractor (Farm type R/T with attachments, except Backhoe)  
Tugger Operator  
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “3”;  
   
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08  
($.65*) ($.80*)  
ZONE 1: $ 23.52 $ 24.17 open  
ZONE 2: $ 25.52 $ 26.17  
A-Frame Truck (2 or more drums)  
Assistant Refrigeration Plant & Chiller Operator (over 1000 ton)  
Backfillers (Cleveland & similar)  
Batch Plant & Wet Mix Operator, single unit (concrete)  
Belt-Crete Conveyors with power pack or similar  
Belt Loader (Kocal or similar)  
Bending Machine  
21  
6-1-09  
($.75*)  
open  
6-1-09  
($.75*)  
open  
   
Bob Cat (skid steer)  
Boring Machine (earth)  
Boring Machine (rock under 8” bit) (Quarry Master, Joy or similar)  
Bump Cutter (Wayne, Saginau or similar)  
Canal Lining Machine (concrete)  
Chipper (without crane) Cleaning & Doping Machine (pipeline)  
Deck Engineer  
Dozer / Tractor (up to D-6 or equivalent) and Traxcavator  
Elevating Belt-Type Loader (Euclid, Barber Green & similar)  
Elevating Grader-Type Loader (Dumor, Adams or similar)  
Generator Plant Engineers (diesel or electric)  
Gunite Combination Mixer & Compressor  
Locomotive Engineer  
Mixermobile  
Mucking Machine  
Posthole Auger or Punch  
Pump (grout or jet)  
Soil Stabilizer (P & H or similar)  
Spreader Machine  
Traverse Finish Machine  
Turnhead Operator  
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “4”:  
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
($.65*) ($.80*) ($.75*)  
ZONE 1: $ 23.68 $ 24,33 open open  
ZONE 2: $ 25.68 $ 26.33  
   
Concrete Pumps (squeeze-crete, flow-crete, Whitman & similar)  
Curb Extruder (asphalt or concrete)  
Drills (churn, core, calyx or diamond)  
Equipment Serviceman, Greaser & Oiler  
Hoist (2 or more drums or Tower Hoist)  
Loaders (overhead & front-end, under 4 yds.. R/T)  
Refrigeration Plant Engineer (under 1000 ton)  
Rotomill Groundsman  
Rubber-tired Skidders (R/T with or without attachments)  
Surface Heater & Planer Machine  
Trenching Machines (under 7 ft. depth capacity)  
Turnhead (with re-screening)  
Vacuum Drill (reverse circulation drill under 8” bit)  
22  
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “5”:  
   
   
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
($.65*) ($.80*) ($.75*)  
ZONE 1: $ 23.84 $ 24.49 open open  
ZONE 2: $ 25.84 $ 26.49  
Backhoe (45,000 gw & under)  
Backhoe & Hoe Ram (Under % yd.)  
Carrydeck & Boom Truck (under 25 tons)  
Cranes (25 tons & under), all attachments incl. Clamshell, Dragline  
Derricks & Stifflegs (under 65 tons)  
Drilling Equipment (8” bit & over) (Robbins, reverse circulation & similar)  
Grade Checker  
Hoe Ram  
Piledriving Engineers  
Paving (dual drum)  
Railroad Track Liner Operator (self-propelled)  
Refrigeration Plant Engineer (1000 tons & over)  
Signalman (Whirleys, Highline, Hammerheads or similar)  
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “6”:  
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
($.65*) ($.80*) ($.75*)  
ZONE 1: $ 24.12 $ 24.77 open open  
ZONE 2: $ 26.12 $ 26.77  
Asphalt Plant Operator  
Automatic Subgrader (Ditches & Trimmers)  
(Autograde, ABC, R.A. Hansen & similar on grade wire)  
Backhoe (45,000 gw to 110,000 gw)  
Backhoes & Hoe Ram (3/4 yd. to 3 yd.)  
Batch Plant (over 4 units)  
Batch & Wet mix Operator (multiple units, 2 & incl. 4)  
Blade Operator (motor patrol & attachments)  
Boom Cats (side)  
Cableway Controller (Dispatcher)  
Compactor (self-propelled with blade)  
Concrete Pump Boon Truck  
Concrete Slip Form Paver  
Cranes (25 tons to and including 45 tons), all attachments incl. Clamshell, Dragline  
Conveyor Aggregate Delivery Systems (C.A.D.)  
Crusher, Grizzle & Screening Plant Operator  
Dozer, 834 R/T & similar  
Dozer / Tractors (D-6 & equivalent & over)  
Drill Doctor  
H-D-Welder  
Lime Batch Tank Operator (Recycle Train)  
Lime Brain Operator (Recycle Train)  
23  
   
   
Loader Operator (front-end & overhead, 4 yds. incl. 8 yds.)  
Mobile Crusher Operator (Recycle Train)  
Multiple Dozer Units with single blade  
Paving Machine (asphalt and concrete)  
Quad-Track or similar equipment  
Rollerman (finishing asphalt pavement)  
Roto Mill (pavement grinder)  
Scrapers, all, Rubber-tired  
Screed Operator  
Shovels (under 3 yds.)  
Trenching machines (7 ft. depth & over)  
Tug Boat Operator  
Vactor Guzzler, Super Sucker  
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “7”:  
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
($.65*) ($.80*) ($.75*)  
ZONE 1: $ 24.39 $ 25.04 open open  
ZONE 2: $ 26.39 $ 26.04  
Backhoe (over 110,000 gw)  
Backhoes & Hoe Ram (3 yds & over)  
Blade (finish & bluetop), automatic, CMI, ABC, Finish Athey & Huber & similar when used as  
automatic  
Cableway Operators  
Concrete Cleaning / Decontamination Machine Operator  
Cranes (45 tons to 85 tons), all attachments incl. Clamshell and ['ragline  
Derricks & Stifflegs (65 tons & over)  
Elevating Belt (Holland Type)  
H.D. Mechanic  
H.D. Welder  
Heavy Equipment Robotics Operator  
Hydraulic Platform Trailers (Goldhofer, Shaurerly and similar)  
Loader (360 degrees revolving Koehring Scooper or similar)  
Loaders (overhead & front-end, over 8 yds. to 10 yds.)  
Master Environmental Maintenance Technician  
Rubber-tired Scrapers (multiple engine with three or more scrapers)  
Shovels (3 yds. & over)  
Ultra High Pressure Wateriet Cutting Too! System Operator, (30,000 psi)  
Vacuum Blasting Machine Operator  
Whirleys & hammerheads, ALL  
24  
### HVY-HWY OE - GROUP “8”;  
   
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
($.65*) ($.80*) ($.75*)  
ZONE |: $ 25.49 $ 26.14 open open  
ZONE 2; $ 27.49 $ 28.14  
Cranes (85 tons & over) and ALL climbing, overhead, rail & tower. All attachments incl.  
Clamshell, Dragline  
Driller Licensed  
Helicopter Pilot  
Loaders (overhead and front-end, 10 yds. & over)  
BOOM PAY: (All Cranes, including Tower)  
(A) 180’ to 250’) $.36 §.50 over scale  
(B) Over 250’ $.68 $.80 over scale  
***NOTE: The calculation for Boom Pay on Tower Cranes shall be the triangular measurement from  
the base of the Tower to the Tip of the jib (the hypotenuse of the triaigle). ***  
HAZMAT: Anyone working on HAZMAT jobs, working with supplied air shall receive  
$1.00 / hour above classification.  
FOREMAN: Shall be paid one dollar ($ 1.00) per hour over the scale of the highest scale  
supervised.  
GENERAL FOREMAN: Shall be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour over the Foremen’s scale.  
### THE PARTIES SHALL MEET TO NEGOTIATE A RATE FOR ANY NEW MACHINE  
   
### NOT CLASSIFIED ABOVE.  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
HEALTH & SECURITY $5.15 (sis) $5.31) open open  
PENSION $2.75 (sso) $3.25 (s.50) $3.75 $4.25  
APPRENTICESHIP & TRAINING $ 42 «ses) $ .47 (8.03) $ .50 $ .50  
TOTAL: $ 8.32 $ 9.022 * *  
Deduct from net wages:  
UNION PROGRAMS ($ .04) ($.20)  
WASH. STATE BLDG. TRADES ($ .01) ($.01)  
SCHOLARSHIP ($ .01) ($.01)  
25  
### APPRENTICE RATES  
### FIELD MECHANICS, CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT OPERATORS  
### BASED RATE GROUP 6: $24.77  
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
### TBD TBD  
65% 0-1000 Hours $15.68 $16.16  
70% 1001-2000 Hours $16.88 $17.34  
78% 2001-3000 Hours $18.09 $18.58  
80% 3001-4000 Hours $19.30 $19.82  
85% 4001-5000 Hours $20.50 $21.05  
90% 5001-8000 Hours $21.71 $22.29  
### *AT NO TIME WILL AN APPRENTICE WAGE EXCEEI) A JOURNEYMANS WAGE  
### PERFORMING THE SAME WORK*  
### APPRENTICESHIP RATIOS  
### HEAVY DUTY MECHANIC REPAIRMEN:  
An employer employing one (1) or more journeymen in the trade of Heavy Duty  
Mechanic Repairman at the job site may employ (1) Apprentice; and one (1) additional  
Apprentice shall be employed thereafter for each five (4) journeymen employed at the job  
site or shop.  
### CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT OPERATOR:  
An employer employing one (1) or more journeymen in the trade of construction  
equipment operator at the job site may employ (1) Apprentice; and one (1) additional Apprentice  
shall be employed thereafter for each five (4) journeymen employed at the job site.  
FRINGE BENEFITS: Apprentices will receive the same fringe benefits as journeymen.  
   
     
      
    
    
      
   
### DISPATCH POINTS - LOCAL #70  
SPOKANE P.O. Box #3386 Spokane, WA 99220-3386  
(509) 624-5365  
PASCO 2015 W. Yakima Kennewick, WA 99336  
509) 545-1811  
   
26  
   
   
### SCHEDULE A-II  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL #370  
### SHOP PERSONNEL  
95%  
CLASSIFICATION 6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
($.65*) ($.80*) ($.75*)  
Heavy Duty Mechanic $ 22.2 $ 23.79 open open  
Welder $ 22.25 $ 23.79  
Machine Tool Operator $ 22.25 $ 23.79  
Service Oilier $ 21.85 $ 23.11  
Mechanic’s Helper $ 20.38 § 21.56  
### HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME  
It is mutually agreed that the hours of work shall be eight (3) hours per day, five days per  
week, Monday through Friday. All work performed in of eight (8) hours per day or  
on Saturdays, except for makeup days, shall be at one and cne-half (1-1/2) times the basic  
rate of pay. All work performed on Sundays or holidays sha!l be paid at double the straight  
time rate. The recognized holidays are: New Years Day, Memorial Day, Independence  
Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and the Friday and Saturday thereafter, and Christmas  
Day.  
### COVERAGE  
It is mutually agreed that when men employed in these shop's are required to transfer their  
activities to the site of a construction job for the Employer their wages and working conditions  
shall be governed by the Heavy and Highway Construction Agreement in effect in the area at the  
time.  
This clause shall not apply when employee’s shift starts and enc's at the shop, and when he uses  
employer’s transportation to and from the job site.  
All provisions of Fringe Benefits scheduled are applicable to this Schedule.  
### APPRENTICE ~ SHOP MECHANIC  
BASED RATE: $23.79  
6-1-06 6-1-07 6-1-08 6-1-09  
65% 0-1000 Hours $ 14.46 $ 15.46 TBD TBD  
70% 1001-2000 Hours $ 15.58 $ 16.65  
75% 2001-3000 Hours $ 16.69 $ 17.84  
80% 3001-4000 Hours $ 17.80 $ 19.03  
85% 4001-5000 Hours $ 18.91 $ 20.22  
90% 5001-8000 Hours § 20.02 $ 21.41  
27  
   
   
### SECTION 1.  
### SECTION 2.  
### SECTION 3.  
   
### SCHEDULE B  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 370  
### TRUST FUNDS  
HEALTH & SECURITY PROVISION: In ad:lition to the wage rates listed in  
Schedule A, the Employers shall pay into a Health and Security Fund known as  
the “Operating Engineers Local 370-AGC Trust Fund”, effective June 1 2007,  
five dollars and thirty cents ($5.30); per compensational hour worked for all  
employees covered by this Agreement dated June 1 2007. Such payments shall be  
made monthly on or before the 15" of the month following that for which  
contributions are being made and shall be depositzd in a delegated Bank or Banks  
in accordance with the negotiated Trust Agreement dated August 15, 1954,  
between the Inland Northwest Associated Generzil Contractors and Local 370 of  
the International Union of Operating Engineers and the individual members  
thereof. The Trust Agreement as amended shall be attached to and become a part  
of this Agreement.  
RETIREMENT PROVISION: In addition to the wage rates listed in the  
Schedule A, the Employers shall pay into a Retirzment Trust Fund known as the  
“Engineers Local 370-AGC Retirement Trust of the Inland Empire”, effective  
June 1 2007 Three dollars and twenty five cents ($3.25) per compensational  
hour worked for all employees covered by this Agreement dated June 1 2007.  
Such payments shall be made monthly on or before the 15 of the month  
following that for which contributions are being rnade and shall be deposited in a  
delegated bank of banks in accordance with the negotiated Trust Agreement dated  
June 1, 1964, between the Inland Northwest Associated General Contractors of  
America and Local 370 of the International Union of Operating Engineers. The  
Trust Agreement as amended shall be attached to and become a part of this  
Agreement.  
### APPRENTICESHIP & TRAINING PROVISION: In addition to the wage  
rates listed in Schedule A, the Employers shall pay into an Apprenticeship and  
Training fund known as the “Inland Empire Employers and Operating Engineers  
28  
   
### SECTION 4.  
### SECTION 5.  
### SECTION 6.  
### SECTION 7.  
Journeyman Training Trust Fund”, effective June 1 2007, forty-seven cents  
($0.47) per compensable hour worked for all employees covered by this amended  
agreement dated June 1 2007. Such payments shall be made monthly on or before  
the 15" of the month following that for which contributions are being made and  
shall be deposited in a delegated Bank or Banks in accordance with the negotiated  
Trust Agreement dated August 26, 1965, between the Inland Northwest  
Associated General Contractors of America and Local 370 of the International  
Union of Operating Engineers and the individual members thereof. The Trust  
Agreement as amended shall be attached to and become a part of this Agreement.  
WORKING DUES CHECK OFF: Effective June 1 2007, in accordance with  
the terms of an individual and voluntary writter: authorization for check off of  
membership dues in form printed by the provisions of Section 302(C) of the  
Labor Management Relations Act, as amended, the Employer agrees to deduct for  
working dues an amount or percentage per compensable hour of wages once each  
week, which in the future will be authorized by the membership of Local 370. All  
monies collected for working dues by the Employer shall be paid to the agent of  
Local 370, namely: Local 370 Operating Engineers - Construction Employers’  
Trust Fund, c/o Farmers & Merchants Bank, P. O. Box 14858, Spokane,  
Washington 99214. The working dues that are deducted shall be paid monthly by  
the 15" of the month following the month in whic! they were deducted.  
In order to eliminate onerous book and record keeping burdens on the Employers,  
parties hereto, said Employers would make contributions to each of the funds by  
means of one check and one report to include all funds. Pro-rata cost of the report  
forms will be paid by the funds equally. The Fund Administrator and the  
depository bank working jointly will distribute the contributions as outlined in the  
report and this Article.  
In the event the Employer fails to make the required monetary contributions in  
conformity with Sections 1, 2, and 3 of this Article, the Union shall take any  
economic action necessary to insure the proper collection of these contributions.  
Trustees, who are appointed by virtue of the Trust Documents that are part of this  
Agreement, may assess interest, penalties and collection costs as outlined in the  
Trust Documents.  
If Locai 370 has entered into a reciprocity agreement with a sister local outside  
the jurisdiction of this Agreement, providing that an employer covered by this  
Agreement may bring its key employees with it in'o Local 370’s jurisdiction, said  
Employer shall be permitted to make contributions to the AGC sister local trust  
fund on behalf of its key employees. In the event tlie total contributions under this  
Agreement are higher than the total AGC sistzr local contribution rate, the  
difference shall be paid to the employee as part of his wages.  
29  
   
### SCHEDULE C  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 370  
### HIRING HALL RULES  
It is hereby agreed by and between the Inland Northwest Associated General Contactors,  
hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and the International Union of Operating Engineers,  
Local 370, hereinafter referred to as the Union, that the Cperating Engineers hiring hall  
procedure as outlined in schedule C of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be amended  
for a period commencing JUNE 1, 2007, to May 31, 2010, as fo!lows:  
Section 1.  
Employers shall hire qualified Operating Engineers by calling the Union. Whenever the  
Employer requires Operating Engineers on the job, he shall notii'y the local union office either in  
writing or by telephone, or in person stating the location, startir.g time, approximate duration of  
the job, the type of work to be performed, the number of Operiting Engineers required and the  
equipment to be operated, and whether the work is covered by the master agreement or private  
commercial, industrial, and residential addendum.  
if the Employer and/or the employee breaches any of the rules contained herein, the Employer  
and employees shall be liable for a day’s pay for each day of violation and said amount shall be  
payable to the Union. It shall be a violation of these rules if the Employer does not request its  
operators from the hiring hall and/or if the employee goes to work for an employer without a  
dispatch.  
If the hiring hall cannot provide the required number of qualified minority Operating Engineers,  
the Employer shall be free to seek minority Operating Engineers rom the other sources.  
Section 2.  
This hiring procedure shall not be interpreted in any manner to limit an Employer’s right to  
transfer his Operating Engineer employees between his projects within the area covered by the  
jurisdiction of Local 370.  
Section 3.  
Employees covered by this Agreement have certain accrued right or benefits for themselves and  
their dependents under health and welfare and pension plans which accrue to them by virtue of  
length of employment with Employers party to this Agreemet and such right are generally  
continuous while under employment and remain effective until a certain period of time after  
layoff or discharge.  
Priority mean the right accruing to employees, hereaftzr provided in this Agreement  
through length of service with Employers party to this Agreement which will entitle the  
Operating Engineers to a priority of preference of rehire after terniination or layoff.  
All classes of Operating Engineers shall be hired and/or rehired in accordance with length of  
service with Employers in the collective bargaining unit as follows:  
30  
   
“A” List:  
The “A” List shall consist of Operating Engineers who are eithe: on the “A” List or qualified for  
“A” List as of June 1, 2007, or who have worked 500 how's or more for an Employer or  
Employers, (as hereinafter defined) during the preceding two years prior to the employee’s  
registration date.  
“B” List:  
Operating Engineers who have been employed by an Employer or Employers, (as hereinafter  
defined), who have worked for any such Employer or Employers for an aggregate time of less  
than 500 hours, but 100 hours or more shall be registered on the appropriate registration list of  
the “B” List.  
“C” List:  
All applicants who pass a minimum standard categories established by the 370  
Training Trust, or who can verify journeyman status in another local of the I.U.0.E.  
   
“D” List:  
(Old C-list language)  
All other applicant Operating Engineers for employment.  
(A) | The Union shall make up and prepare the roster for preference of rehire by grouping all  
Operating Engineers who come within the above classifications and shall utilize the  
health and welfare and pension records in establishing the roster.  
(B) “Employers” under this paragraph mean (1) any Employer party to this Agreement; (2)  
any Employer who employs Operating Engineers and is a contributing Employer within  
the meaning of the health and welfare and pension plans.  
Section 4.  
(A) Registration or re-registration of applicant for employment shall be accepted by the  
Union at any time during its customary office hours. All applicants shall be registered in  
the order of time and date of registration.  
(B)} To remain on 2 registration list, an applicant for referral must renew his registration in  
person, by mail, by fax, or by email each month. If an applicant is required to pay a work  
registration fee, the applicant must renew his/her registration in person or by mail each  
month.  
(C) | There shall be four (4) groupings on the out-of-work list. All Operating Engineers with  
accrued rights shall be registered on either the “A” List or “B” List, and all other  
Operating Engineers who are qualified, but without accrued rights, shall be registered on  
the “C or D” List.  
31  
   
   
(D)  
(E)  
(F)  
(G)  
(H)  
(I)  
Each applicant for employment shall be required to furnish such data, records, names of  
Employers and length of employment and licenses as may be deemed necessary, and each  
applicant shall complete such forms of registration as shall be submitted to him/her.  
Applicants for employment shall also list any special skills they may possess.  
An applicant looking for work shall be permitted to register on all out-of-work lists  
maintained by Local 370 as long as the applicant is ready and available for work.  
An applicant with accrued rights found to be working 2s an Operating Engineer in the  
construction or related industry and still on the out-of-work list will be removed from the  
list.  
it is the responsibility of an applicant to furnish the dispatch office with telephone  
numbers for contact purposes. If an applicant does not have a telephone where they can  
be contacted, they will be required to contact the dispatch office each day.  
An applicant called for work who cannot be contacted (no telephone recorder, a  
disconnected telephone, a mobile phone or pager, voice mail, out of town) will, after two  
(2) attempts in one (1) month period, be removed from their place on the out-of-work list  
and placed on the bottom of the appropriate | list. a. ee ca  
   
Section 5.  
(A)  
Upon the request of an Employment for Operating Erigineers, the Union shall refer  
qualified and competent registrants to that Employer in suffictent number required by the  
Employer in the manner and under the conditions specified in this Agreement from the  
list in the following order of referral:  
(1) The applicants shall be referred from ‘‘A” List in successive order as their names  
appear on the out-of-work list, and when “A” List jaas been exhausted,  
(2) | Then applicants from “B” List in successive order as their names appear on the  
out-of-work list, and when “B” List has been exhausted,  
(3) Then applicants from “C” List in successive order as their names appear on the  
out-of-work list, and when “C” List has been exhausted,  
(4) Then applicants from “D” List in successive orders as their names appear on the  
out-of-work list.  
32  
   
(B)  
(C)  
(D)  
(E)  
Requests Recalls by an Employers te—reeall for a particular Operating Engineer,  
including apprentices, previously employed by the Employer who have been laid off or  
terminated by the Employer within three (3) years previous to the request, shall be  
honored without regard to the requested Operating Engineer’s place on the out-of-work  
lists so long as the applicant is properly signed up on the out-of-work list. FheBmpleyer  
hall ¥ 43  
It is understood that when an outside Employer comes into the jurisdiction of Local 370  
for the first time, the following shall be adhered to:  
The Employer and the Union shall mutually agree on a reasonable number of Operating  
Engineers to be brought into the territorial jurisdiction covered by this Agreement for  
each job.  
Each Operating Engineer hired under this section shall report to the dispatch office for  
referral slip. All replacement of working personnel shall be dispatched in the regular  
manner.  
Any applicant who is rejected by the Employer shall restored to his place on the  
appropriate out-of-work list for his group. When a registrant is referred of employment  
and 1s actually employed on a job for more than 15 days in any thirty (30) calendar day  
period, or is discharged or quits anytime after referral when continuing work is available,  
such registrant’s name shall be placed on the bottom of the appropriate out-of-work list  
when employment terminates, the Operating Engineer sliall be registered on the bottom  
of the appropriate group list on which he is entitled to be registered. If an applicant  
works on a job of short duration (fifteen (15) calendar days or less), they will not lose  
his/her original place on the appropriate out-of-work list unless he/ she has voluntarily  
quit. An applicant who refuses a job call for whatever reason, except for illness or  
hardship, or who does not return messages twice in the same month, will be removed  
from the applicant’s position on the out-of-work list and placed at the bottom of the  
appropriate list. The Union may request a doctor’s certification of such illness. Any  
applicant who desires to remain on the out-of-work list lout has a doctor’s medical hold  
may not hold for more than six (6) months.  
An applicant who has been dispatched to the job at the classification they register under  
and certifies to be qualified to do and who is discharged for cause two (2) times in a  
twelve (12) month period may be required to have their case reviewed by the Joint Hiring  
Hall Board. Any members desiring to change their work card may do so if they are  
upgrading their skills at any time. If they desire to put restrictions or delete skills or add  
previously deleted skill, they may do so only one time per year.  
Dispatch hours shall be between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.  
In the event that the referral facilities maintained by the Union are unable to fill the  
requisition of an Employer for Operating Engineers forty-eight (48) hours after  
such requisition is made by the Employer (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded),  
the Employer may employ applicants directly at the jot site. In such and event, the  
Employer will notify the Union of the names, social security number, and the dates of  
such hiring within fort-eight (48) hours.  
33  
(F) Any person failing a substance abuse test will not be allowed to sign the out-of-work list  
© in Local 370’s jurisdiction for a 30-day period. After 30 days, they will be placed on the  
bottom of the list they qualify for when they sign back in.  
Any person failing a second substance test will be denied further use of all hiring hall  
facilities throughout Local 370’s jurisdiction for 30 days. Hiring hall privileges will then  
only be restored after: (1) The applicant has successfully completed a state certified drug  
alcohol program, or (2) the applicant has been released for employment purposes by a  
certified counselor and continues to remain free of all prohibited substances as defined in  
the AGC Labor Substance Abuse Program.  
(G) The referral procedure as contained herein shall be followed except that:  
(1) by Employers for Operating Engineers on the “A” List shall be honored  
without regard to the requested Operating Engineer’s place on the out-of-work  
list. In order of an applicant to be referred by natne, the applicant must be on the  
“A” List. The request for an applicant will onlv be honored if the applicant is  
legally signed on the out-of- work list. The Employer shall confirm the request in  
writing.  
In an emergency or if the Union office is closed, the Employer is allowed to call  
to work an employee if the employee has worked for the Employer during the  
preceding thirty (30) days and if the Employer contacts the Union office and  
© requests the employee by 2:00 p.m. of the next day that the Union office is open.  
Any Operating Engineer dispatched, as an owner-operator request shall be subject  
to recall on his own equipment only.  
(2) It shall not be a violation of these Hiring Hall rules for an existing employee  
of a signatory contractor who joins the Operating Engineers from another  
craft to be dispatch without going through the regular hiring hall  
procedures.  
(3) To maintain a pool of temporary helpers, in the best interests of the industry,  
requests by Employers for particular temporary help with no priority shall be  
honored without regard to the requested Operating, Engineer’s place on the out-of-  
work list; provided that such temporary help the status of students seeking  
temporary employment from May 15 through September 15; and provided  
further, that any dispute arising out of such request be referred to the Joint Hiring  
Committee in accordance with the provisions of Section 8. A decision of the  
dispatching agent in referring registrants is appeal able to the Joint Hiring  
Committee as herein provided.  
(H) Where Employers engage in a joint venture, Operating Erigineers employed by any of the  
joint ventures may be transferred to the job or called for ty name if the requirements of 1  
© and 2 (G) have been met by any of the joint ventures.  
34  
   
(D [f an Employer controls or holds common ownership of separate corporations, the  
Employer is considered the Employer for the purpose of iransferring Operating Engineers  
to and from such corporation payrolls.  
Section 6.  
The Union and the Employers agree that the referral of Operating. Engineers shall be on  
the following basis:  
(A) There shall be no unlawful discrimination by the Employer of the Union in regard to  
hiring, tenure or discharge of any employee and «any requirements pertaining to  
membership or non-membership in any Union shall be in accordance with the National  
Labor Relation Act of 1947, as amended, any Federal of State laws and/or directives  
governing hiring procedures.  
(B) The Employer retains the right to reject any job applicant referred by the Union.  
(C) The Union and the Employer shall post, in places where notices to all employees and  
applicants for employment are customarily posted, all provisions relating to the  
functioning of the hiring provisions of this Agreement.  
Section 7.  
(A) All employees covered by this Agreement shall be required as a condition of  
employment, to apply for and become members of, and to maintain membership in, the  
Union within eight (8) days following the beginning of their employment or the effective  
date of this clause, whichever is later. This clause shall be effective on July 8, 1965, and  
shall be enforceable to the extent permitted by law.  
(B) The Union recognizes its obligation and therefore assumes full responsibility to every  
employee discharged under the provisions of the paragraph section 7 (A) as a result of  
written request from the Union to the Employer.  
Section 8.  
The parties to this Agreement shall create a Joint Hiring Committee composed of an equal  
number of Employer and Union representatives to supervise and control the operation of the job  
referral system herein. The Joint Hiring Committee is empowered:  
(A) To establish any and all rules and regulations from time to time that it deems advisable to  
the operation of this job referral plan.  
(B) To properly post all rules and regulations relating to the functioning of the referral plan  
together with provisions of this Agreement as set out in Section 6 of the Union dispatch  
office and at the Employer’s office.  
(C) To hear and determine any and all disputes or grievances arising out of work  
registrations, work referrals, and the preparation of the referral registration lists. Any  
applicant or registrant shall have a right of appeal of any dispute or grievance arising out  
35  
   
   
(D)  
(E)  
(F)  
of and relating to the operation of functioning of the job referral plan to the Joint Hiring  
Committee.  
All disputes or grievances of whatever nature must be submitted to the Joint Hiring Hall  
Board in writing within ten (10) days of the alleged dispute or grievance. The Joint  
Board will meet within thirty (30) days of said dispute or grievance and will make a  
determination at that time. Copies of all disputes and grievances must be submitted in  
triplicate. One copy is mailed to LU.O.E. Local 370, P.O. Box 3386, Spokane, Wa.  
99220, and one copy to the Associated General Contractors, Inland Empire Chapter, P.O.  
Box 33266, Spokane, Wa. 99220.  
The Joint Hiring Committee shall provide in the rules ard regulations of the job referral  
for and appeal to and impartial umpire whenever the Joint Hiring Committee reaches a  
deadlock over a dispute. The impartial umpire shall be designated by mutual agreement  
of the parties. The authority of the impartial umpire shall be limited to the interpreting  
and applying and the rules and regulations of the Joint Hiring Committee. All decisions  
of the Joint Hiring Committee of the impartial umpire shall be final, binding, and  
conclusive on all parties including applicants. Applicants are required to exhaust the  
procedures outlined herein prior to the commencement of any NLRB or civil  
proceedings.  
If any questions arise as to the qualifications and competency of an applicant, the Joint  
Hiring Committee shall make the determination. Such determination shall be fair and  
impartial, without regard to applicant’s membership or non-membership in the Union.  
Section 9.  
Either party to this Agreement shall have the right to reopen negotiations pertaining to the Union  
recognition and hiring procedures by giving the other party thirty (30) days written notice when  
there is reason to believe that the laws pertaining hereto have changed by Congressional  
Amendments, government regulations, or court decisions.  
### Section 10. APPRENTICESHIP HIRING HALL RULES  
(A) Apprentices indentured to the Western States Operating Engineers Institute of Training  
(B)  
(C)  
shall accumulate no rights under this hiring procedure until they have satisfactorily  
completed their apprenticeship. Any Apprentice having been canceled or who has  
dropped out of the program of their own accord, shail not be permitted to register  
for employment nor be dispatched as a journey level operator by the Local Union  
for a period of two (2) years after cancellation. At completion of the apprenticeship,  
each apprentice, now a journeyman Operating Engineer, will be credited with all rights  
equal to a journeyman’s rights based on the hours worked as an apprentice.  
A request for an apprentice will be honored only if the apjorentice is legally signed on the  
out-of-work list and has worked for an Employer within the past three (3) years.  
All dispatches of apprentices shall be through the Apprenticeship office. The apprentices  
will be required to sign in monthly to maintain their place on the out-of-work list on the  
same fashion as journeymen Operating Engineers.  
36  
   
(D)  
(E)  
(F)  
(G)  
(H)  
(I)  
(J)  
An apprentice found to be working as an Operating Engineer in the construction field or  
related industry and still on the out-of-work list may be removed from the list.  
It is the responsibility of the apprentice to furnish the dispatch office with a telephone  
number or contact information. If an apprentice does not have a telephone where they  
can be contacted, the apprentice will be required to contact the dispatch off once per day,  
before 9:00 a.m. and/or before 2:00 p.m.  
An apprentice called for work who cannot be contzcted (no telephone recorder, a  
disconnected telephone, a mobile phone or pager, voice mail, out of town) will, after two  
(2) attempts in one (1) month period, be removed from their place on the out-of-work list.  
When an apprentice has been removed from the out-of-work list as provided, they shall  
then by notified via certified mail. Notification shall be sent to the apprentice’s last  
known address. If an apprentice registers on the out-of-work list again, their name shall  
then be placed on the list as of the date the apprentice notifies the appropriate dispatch  
office. (change to match 370 rules section 4 (h)).  
An apprentice who refuses a job call for whatever reason (except illness) or who does not  
return messages twice in the same month, will be removed from the apprentice’s position  
on the out-of-work list and placed at the bottom of the list. If and apprentice refuses a job  
call for reasons of illness, the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Trust (JATT) committee  
will request a doctor’s certification of such illness. Any apprentice who desires to remain  
on the out-of-work list, but has a doctor’s medical hold, must provide a doctor’s release  
for work before they can be dispatched. A medical hold must not extend for more than  
six (6) months.  
On jobs of short duration, or to finish existing jobs, the apprentice will be allowed fifteen  
(15) calendar days without losing their original place on the out-of-work list.  
To provide for apprentices receiving the maximum amount of training on a variety of  
equipment, the apprenticeship coordinator has the autliority to pierce the list and/or  
assign or reassign apprentices to different employment.  
All disputes or grievances of whatever nature must be submitted to the Western States  
Operating Engineers Institute of Training in writing within ten (10) days from the date of  
the alleged dispute or grievance. At the next scheduled meeting of the JATC, a  
determination will be made on the dispute or grievance.  
### SCHEDULE D  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS WORK RULES  
When management deems an Oiler or Assistant to the Operator is necessary on any piece  
of equipment, that individual shall be a member of the Operator’s union.  
Operators or Oilers, in addition to duties as available, may be assigned to other  
classifications on an intermittent basis in the immediate area.  
37  
   
Crews on portable crushers with three or more units shill consist of a crusher operator,  
feederman (if required) and Oiler. Additional workmen required in the operation and  
maintenance of conveyors, crushers and/or any component part of the machine, shall be  
members of this craft.  
Servicing and repairing of miscellaneous equipment compressors, pumps, welding  
machines, tuggers, light plants, etc. is recognized as within the jurisdiction of the  
Operating Engineers Union. (Subject to Memorandums of Understanding).  
Barge crews shall be Operating Engineers.  
Any employee working any portion of a shift in a higher rated classification shall receive  
the higher rate in one (1) hour increments with minimurn of one (1) hour. An employee  
will be notified before a reduction is made to a rate lesser than his dispatch rate.  
Heavy duty repairmen shall furnish their own hand tools in good repair. The Employer  
agrees to furnish all special tools when needed such as mietric tools, pin presses, spanner  
wrenches, impact wrenches (air or electric), all pullers, drills, reamers, tips and dies,  
gauges, torches, tips, box wrenches and sockets over | inches, twenty-four inch (24”)  
and larger pipe wrenches, and all tools and sockets requiring over % inch drive. The  
contractor shall furnish a safe dry place for storing Mechanic’s tools. Service Oilers shall  
not be required to furnish tools.  
The contractor will replace mechanics’ tools if damaged or lost by fire or flood or forced  
entry robbery while on the contractor’s project or premises. It shall be the employee’s  
responsibility in order to be covered by this provision t» provide the contractor with a  
signed list of the actual, true and current inventory of !ools which are exposed to the  
hazard.  
It is understood that if a mechanic damages a tool under normal use and if the tool  
guarantee does not cover the replacement, then the contractor will replace the tool. It is  
further understood this replacement obligation does not cover the gross negligence of an  
employee by virtue of his not giving his tools proper care, deliberately abusing the tool,  
or the tool is of such ancient vintage that it will not stand up under normal usage.  
It is further understood that all tools will be replaced “in kind” if possible, or if  
impossible due to availability, this replacement will be of 2qual value.  
Operating Engineers shall not be required or permitted to furnish their own transportation  
or welders on the job site.  
All Operators and Oilers on rental equipment within the jurisdiction of this Agreement  
shall be permitted to move from job to job as directed by te renter.  
On single shift work when overtime work is contemplated with a certain machine before  
or after a regular shift or an overtime day, the Operator and/or Oiler regularly assigned to  
such machine shall be given preference to perform such work, provided the regular  
Operator is competent to perform such work.  
38  
I.  
12.  
14.  
Side curtains, umbrellas, canopies, cabs and heaters, when applicable, or fans (summer  
and winter), will be furnished to protect employees during appropriate periods of  
weather. Side curtains damaged willfully by negligence shall be subject to replacement  
by employee’s concerned, fair wear and tear excepted. Adequate fenders, windshields,  
and/or splashboards will be provided on rubber-tired scrapers. Cab and heater will be  
required on motor patrols from October 15 through March 31. Seats and standards  
manufacturer’s padding, doors, window glass, and windshields shall be maintained in  
good repair and workable order.  
After notification to a contractor to comply with Rule 11 on Schedule D and said  
Contractor refuses to abide, the Union may refuse to man the particular machine or  
machines involved.  
In the event any Operator on any project believes that signals given to him by a  
Signalman or Foreman are dangerous beyond the capacity of the machine or are likely to  
endanger the lives of other workmen, he may refuse to obey such signals or orders  
provided he communicates with the Signalman or Foreman and explains the  
circumstances. The Operator who refuses to obey such. signals or orders shall not be  
subject to discharge because he refuses to obey such signals or orders or to work in  
unsafe places or with unsafe equipment.  
FOREMAN: — When in the employer’s opinion the work is sufficient to require the  
services of a Foreman, such Foreman shall be qualified to supervise such work as may  
come under the scope of the agreement and shall be a mernber of the union.  
GENERAL FOREMAN: When in the employer’s ojinion the work is sufficient to  
require the services of a General Foreman, such Genera! Foreman shall be qualified to  
supervise such work as may come under the scope of the agreement and shall be a  
member of the union.  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM  
Available upon request  
39