Industrial Relations Department - Northern California  
1390 Willow Pass Road, Suite 1030  
Concord,CA 94520  
Ph: (925) 827-2422 / 827-4042  
### INDEX  
Apprentices- iC  
Foremen - Wage Rates  
Fringe Benefit Rates  
Fringe Benefits - Contribution to "Home" Trust Funds  
Fringe Contributions for Supervisors  
Fringe Payment Continuity  
Future Increases  
Hiring Hall Rules  
### VILD 23  
24  
V,A,1 14  
VIL, D 23  
it 13  
27  
LC 4  
27  
1, D 4  
### LTA 1  
Vo 18  
,C,7 9  
### VILH 30  
WC. 8  
IX 30  
Diving. 35  
Drilled Pile 47  
IV,F 17  
WA,2. 6  
XI. 33  
33  
Vo 18  
IV,A,1 13  
V,A,1 14  
### VILM 28  
### VILG 26  
26  
18  
### VIII 28  
### XILB 33  
XI 3a  
28  
IX 30  
WC. 8  
9  
### VULA 28  
WA 11  
H. Letters 64  
17  
16  
XT 33  
II, C 8  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
    
AGC Zz 37  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008 - 202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
    
### AGC Sv  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Jurisdictional Disputes. eee XK 32  
Just Employees) 9  
LettersofAssignment ss VILJ 30  
Lettersof Understanding se 50  
Meal Periods 12  
Numberof WorkersinCrews ss Vo 18  
Overtime WLB,7 12  
Parking. 17  
Payroll Check = V,G 17  
Pick UpTime VIILG st 30  
PensionPlan 21  
Pre-JobConference VIILI 30  
Pay. 16  
RecognitionofEmployer ss WIA,1 6  
RegularShifts WB 11  
RiggerClassIncentives ss IV,A,3 16  
Safety. VIILD 29  
Scope of Agreement (Area& Work Covered) lo 1  
ShiftWork eee 11  
Shift eee 11  
eee 1,B,3 11  
Shift Work- Special Single Shift 1B,10 | 13  
Show-Up Pay (Time) 16  
Show-Up Pay- VL1 20  
Show-Up 16  
Special Single Shift = 1B,10 | 13  
StaringTime ee LA 11  
Steward. eee 29  
Subcontracting LD... 4  
Subcontracting (Primary Obligation) = LD8 5  
Subsistence VI 19  
Subsistence Zone- Map(ExhibitA) 54  
Subsistence Zone- 20  
Substance Abuse Policy 55  
TermofAgreement ss XI 33  
TideWork 13  
ToolsandToolhouse = OM VILB 28  
TrustFundAudit ss eee VILLI 27  
TypeofWork LB. 2  
Union Recognition IA,3. 7  
Union Security. TB 7  
Vacationand Holiday Plan eee VILB. 21  
Wage Considerations (Future) 18  
Wage Rates(Wage Scales) 13  
Welding Scholarship ‘( _ IV,A,2,A 15  
Work Covered. LB... 1  
WorkDay WA 11  
Work Day-Reckoned. 16  
Work 21  
Work WA 11  
Work Preservation (Contracting & Subcontracting) TD. 4  
eee LB. 11  
### -VIILC 29  
Working Under Docks VIII, E 29  
### AGC/PILE DRIVERS, DIVERS, CARPENTERS,  
### BRIDGE, WHARF AND DOCK BUILDERS  
### LOCAL UNION #34  
2008-2012  
### MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT  
Between the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc. and the Carpenters 46 Northern  
California Counties Conference Board, on behalf of the Northern California Carpenters Regional  
Council for and on behalf of its affiliate Pile Drivers Local Union #34.  
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into this first day of July, 2008 and effective July 1, 2008, amending,  
modifying, renewing and supplementing the agreement made and entered into July 1, 2004, and each  
and every prior Agreement, predecessor to this Agreement, entered into by and between the parties  
### hereto, by and between the ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC., a  
non-profit corporation and/or other employers becoming signatory hereto parties of the first part,  
hereinafter referred to as the Employer or Individual Employer, each acting for and on behalf of all of  
its respective members and/or themselves, and the CARPENTERS 46 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
COUNTIES CONFERENCE BOARD, on behalf of the Northern California Carpenters Regional  
Council for and on behalf of its affiliate Pile Drivers Local Union #34, parties of the second part,  
hereinafter referred to as the UNION provides:  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties hereto to provide, establish and put into practice uniform  
rates of pay, hours of employment and conditions of work for the employees represented by the  
UNION which are employed from time to time by the Employer or Individual Employer, and  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties hereto to provide, establish and put into practice effective  
methods for the settlement of misunderstandings, disputes or grievances which may arise between the  
parties hereto to the end that the Employer or Individual Employer may be assured of continuity of  
operations and the Employees represented by the UNION may be assured of continuity of  
employment;  
### NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:  
Section I Work Covered  
A. Area:  
This Agreement shall cover all Heavy Construction work of the types hereinafter more  
specifically defined as within pile driving classification and located within the area of  
Northern California, which term is intended to mean that portion of the State of California  
above the Norther Boundary of Kern County; the Northem Boundary of San Luis Obispo  
County, and the Westerly Boundaries of Inyo and Mono Counties, consisting of the following  
forty-six (46) counties: Alameda, Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Contra Costa, Colusa,  
Del Norte, El Dorado, Fresno, Glenn, Humboldt, Kings, Lake, Lassen, Madera, Mariposa,  
Marin, Mendocino, Merced, Modoc, Monterey, Napa, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento,  
San Benito, San Francisco, San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Shasta, Sierra,  
Siskiyou, Solano, Sonoma, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity, Tulare, Tuolumne, Y olo,  
Y uba.  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Pagel  
    
### AGC Fi BF  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 2  
    
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
It is understood further that by the above listing the jurisdiction of the UNION is not thereby  
limited to that area. On the contrary, the UNION claims jurisdiction of certain areas beyond  
that covered by this contract, i.e., the Northern part of Nevada, Counties of Humboldt, Elko,  
Washoe, Pershing, Lander, Eureka, White Pine, Storey, Carson, Douglas, Lyon, Churchill and  
Mineral, the State of Utah, and/or one half the distance to the nearest Pile Driver's Local.  
Type of Work:  
The character of the work covered by this Agreement shall be all heavy, highway and  
building work falling within the recognized jurisdiction of Local Union #34. The parties  
hereto agree to recognize the formal rulings of the General President of the United  
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America embodied in said President's letter of May  
13, 1955, in response to Contractors’ letter of July 17, 1955 and his letter of November 11,  
1955, with clarification as stated in letter of December 12, 1967 and February 18, 1970.  
The character of work covered by this Agreement shall include specifically the following:  
1. In the construction of waterfront and marine facilities, such as docks, piers,  
wharves, bulkheads, jetties, and similar structures, the Pile Driver classification shall  
apply up to and including the decking thereof.  
2. On all pile driving and caisson work, on both land and water, the Pile Driver  
classification shall apply. General pile driving work shall include all labor employed  
in the barking, shoeing, splicing, form building, heading, centering, placing, driving,  
staying, framing, fastening, automatic pile threading, pulling and/or cutting off of all  
piling of every type or nature. This shall include, but is not limited to, wooden piles,  
steel sheet piles, steel H piles, pipe piles, pilejackets, composite piles, cast-in-place  
piles, drill shaft, Tubex piles, Tubex grout injection piles, geo piles, soil  
improvement piles, sand piles, augured cast in place piles, CISS and CIDH, concrete  
piles, as well as similar pre-cast structural shapes or units the setting of which is  
performed with pile driver, derrick, crane or similar power equipment. The  
fabrication, forming, handling and setting of all such pre-cast, pre-stressed and post-  
stressed shapes that are an integral part of any heavy structure enumerated in Section  
I, Paragraph B, subparagraph 4, of this Agreement, whether performed at the  
immediate jobsite, at the Contractor's yard or at temporary or permanent facilities  
established for the purpose of pre-casting, pre-stressing, and post-stressing such  
shapes, shall be done at the Pile Drivers, Divers, Wharf and Dock Builders  
classification and scale.  
3. Unloading, Storage or Movement of Piling: Labor employed in the rafting, boring,  
reeving, dogging or booming of piles or other material for use in or on the structures  
hereinafter specified. This shall include the unloading of piling of all types together  
with the waling and bracing thereof, from railroad cars at the jobsite.  
A. Heavy Structures: These structures shall include all wharves, docks, piers,  
breakwaters, jetties, seawalls, ferry slips, dry docks, graving docks, cofferdams,  
caissons, trestles, overhead crossings, underpasses, underwater _ structures,  
subaqueous pipe lines, seaplane ramps, waterfront bulkhead, bunkers, snow sheds,  
towers, heavy trusses and other similar heavy structures. In the construction of the  
above mentioned heavy structures, the following conditions shall apply:  
10.  
11.  
(a) The capping of all piling including cast in drilled hole piling and caissons.  
This shall include the footing forms capping the piling and in cases where  
the piling extends into the girder, beam or abutment the soffit and side  
forms of these members. In no case will the forming of any deck be  
included as capping.  
(b) In the construction of concrete or steel bridges over land, highways,  
railroads, overpasses, clover leafs, interchanges, or bridges over man-made  
canals, aqueducts, spillways, and man-made water retaining areas, the Pile  
Driver classification shall apply to the driving of piles, caissons and drilled-  
in-place piling. The fabrication and erection of the forms for the capping of  
piles, caissons or drilled-in-place piling shall come under the Pile Driver  
classification. This shall include the placing of wooden or steel capping or  
any substitute thereof.  
(c) Any other form work above the cap, pertaining to the construction  
operations herein noted above, shall be performed under the Bridgebuilders  
classification. This shall also include bridges over man-made canals,  
aqueducts, spillways, and man-made water retaining areas, if constructed  
prior to water being released or turned into area.  
Tunnels: The division between pile drivers’ and miners’ work on subways or  
tunnels, where the interior is to be constructed by tunneling methods, shall be at the  
portal of the subway or tunnel.  
Subaqueous Pipe: The handling, setting and joining of subaqueous pipe, including  
immediate approaches thereto, requiring the use of derricks, pile drivers, gantries, or  
cradles in the laying, shall be considered as belonging to the Pile Drivers  
classification.  
Movement of Heavy Masses: Labor employed in the moving, cribbing and placing  
of heavy machinery, boilers, tanks, guns or similar masses where pile driver, derrick  
or similar power equipment is used.  
Sewers: In the construction of open-cut sewers the Pile Driver classification shall  
apply on all piling including wood, steel or concrete sheet piling, all bracing timber  
and form work incidental to the construction thereof.  
Reconstruction, Repair, Dismantling, or Salvage: Labor performed in the  
reconstruction, repair, wrecking, dismantling or salvaging of any of the foregoing  
structures shall be included to the same extent as labor employed in new construction  
of such structures. In salvage operations the term "underwater structure" shall  
include beached or sunken vessels and other heavy marine equipment, and such  
Salvage work may be done in conjunction with the work done by divers.  
Moving and spotting of pile driver equipment, floating derricks and barges in  
connection with the work covered by Section I shall be performed at the pile driver  
classification and scale.  
The moving, spotting and rigging of floating equipment for the purpose of  
exploration drilling shall be performed at the Pile Driver's classification and scale.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 3  
     
a  
### AGC SS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 4  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Classifications of Employment:  
Except as provided for in Section | B, labor shall include all labor including, but not limited  
to: The placing and moving of appurtenant minor facilities; the placing and moving of all jet  
pumps and temporary pipe lines when being used in connection with pile driving operations,  
and/or equipment; and the use of hand, pneumatic, gasoline and electric tools required for the  
performance of work covered by this Agreement. Labor shall include all work incidental to  
pile driving, bridge, wharf and dock building operations falling within the jurisdiction of the  
Union and covered by this Agreement such as but not limited to capping of piling, form  
building, stripping, dock framing, bridge framing, wharf building, welding, burning, boom  
tending, rafting, lofting, splicing, winching, sawing, cribbing, bracing, lagging, caulking,  
hook tending, signaling, flagging, barging, material handling, saw-filing, repairing, wrecking,  
dismantling, and boring and drilling.  
Work Preservation, & Subcontracting:  
1, The purpose of this Section I D is to preserve and protect the work opportunities that  
will be available to employees covered by this Agreement at the jobsite or job yard.  
2. The terms and conditions of this Agreement, insofar as it affects the Employer and  
the Individual Employer, shall apply equally to any subcontractor of any tier under  
the control of, or working under oral or written contract with such Individual  
Employer on any work covered by this Agreement to be performed at the job site or  
job yard, and said subcontractor with respect to such work shall be considered as an  
Individual Employer covered by this Agreement.  
3. If an Individual Employer shall subcontract work herein defined, the work will be  
subcontracted to a subcontractor signatory to the appropriate Agreement with the  
Union. Such subcontract shall state that such subcontractor is or agrees to become  
signatory to an appropriate Agreement with the Union and will comply with all the  
terms and provisions of said Agreement including the payments of wages, Trust  
Fund contributions and fringe benefit payments. A copy of the subcontract and  
signature shall be furnished to the Union upon request.  
A, The term "subcontractor" means any person, corporation or other entity, other than  
an employee covered by this Agreement, who agrees, orally or in writing, to perform  
for, or on behalf of the Individual Employer, any part or portion of the work covered  
by this Agreement. The subcontractor shall be properly licensed as required by the  
California State Contractors License Law.  
5. The Individual Employer will give written notice to the Union of any subcontract  
involving the performance of work covered by this Agreement within five (5) days  
of entering such subcontract and/or prior commencement of work by the  
subcontractor, unless such notice is prevented by emergency conditions, and shall  
specify the name and address of the subcontractor.  
(a) If thereafter the subcontractor becomes delinquent in the payment of any  
wages, Trust Fund contributions, or fringe benefit payments, the Union or  
the Trust Fund office shall give prompt notice of the delinquency,  
confirmed in writing, to the Individual Employer and to the subcontractor.  
The notice shall specify the name and amounts, if known, of the  
delinquency.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 5  
(b) Said notification by the Union or the Trust Fund office shall be provided  
within twenty (20) days of publication of the Delinquency List provided by  
the Trust Funds, or if in the case of failure to pay wages, five (5) days from  
the applicable pay day. If such notice is given, the Individual Employer  
shall pay and satisfy only the amount of any such delinquency by such  
subcontractor occurring within ninety (90) days prior to the receipt of said  
notice from the Union, and said Individual Employer may withhold the  
amount claimed to be delinquent out of the sums due and owing by the  
Individual Employer to such subcontractor.  
(c) Notwithstanding the provision set forth above, if the subcontractor is found  
in violation of the hiring provisions of this Agreement, pursuant to the  
provision of Section IX (Arbitration of Disputes), and the Union is unable  
to collect from the subcontractor the damages determined to be owing for  
such violation, the Individual Employer shall then be liable for the payment  
of such damages. The total of this liability, as it would apply to the  
Individual Employer, shall be for no more than five (5) days violation or the  
total of the subcontractor's retention being held by the Individual Employer,  
whichever amount is greater.  
If the Individual Employer fails to give written notice as required in this Section I,  
he/she shall, until notice is received, assume liability for any violation of the terms  
and conditions of this Agreement at that particular jobsite or job yard, as may be  
determined by the Arbitration of Disputes. If the subcontractor is signatory or  
otherwise bound to an Agreement with the Union, the Individual Employer shall be  
liable only for delinquencies as set forth in subsection 5(a) of this Section I for work  
on that jobsite or job yard. If the subcontractor is not in compliance with this  
Agreement, then the Individual Employer shall be liable for any violation of this  
Agreement on that jobsite or job yard.  
If the Union should make demand in wniting for exercise of this Section, the  
Individual Employer will require that any subcontractor of the Individual Employer  
specified in the demand will, if the employer has not already done so, post a surety  
bond in an amount not to exceed $75,000.00 to cover payments of wages, Trust Fund  
contributions and fringe benefit payments specified in this Agreement. Failure of the  
Individual Employer to comply with this Section within two (2) days of demand will  
make the Individual Employer liable for the delinquencies of the subcontractor  
occurring on the Individual Employer's specific job. The amount of the bonds  
specified in this subsection in no way affects the amounts specified for bonding  
purposes elsewhere in this A greement.  
The Individual Employer has the primary obligation for performance of all  
conditions of this Agreement. This obligation cannot be relieved, evaded or  
diminished by subcontracting. Should the Individual Employer elect to subcontract,  
the Individual Employer shall continue to have such primary obligation. Said  
primary obligation shall be deemed conclusive evidence of the Union's majority  
status for the purpose of establishing the obligation of the Individual Employer to  
bargain collectively pursuant to Section 8(a)(5) of the National Labor Relations A ct  
as amended with the Union upon expiration of this Agreement but for no other  
     
### TNO  
Recs  
e  
statute, rule, regulations, or law. AGC ss  
### CALIFORNIA  
The provisions of this Section may be enforced only through the Arbitration of  
Disputes provisions of this A greement. C  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 6  
    
### AGC 7  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
10.  
11.  
12.  
13.  
14.  
Section II  
It is the intent of the parties to enforce the provisions of this Section only to the  
extent permitted by law.  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement or any Memorandum  
Agreement to the contrary, the provisions of this Section shall not be enforced by  
strike action or any other form of job shutdown or work interference; provided,  
however, that the rights provided in Section IX (Arbitration of Disputes) of this  
Agreement are retained to enforce primary obligations of any Individual Employer.  
Payment by cash or second multiple checks or combination thereof and the payment  
of excessive premium rates, excessive travel time, or bonuses shall be prima facia  
evidence of an attempt to violate the provisions of this Section. The foregoing shall  
not apply to an annual bonus paid to supervisors.  
Subcontracts shall not be in compliance with this Section if the effect of such  
subcontract is to diminish, eliminate or circumvent the payment of wages, fringe  
benefits or the hiring hall provisions established by this A greement.  
Should an Individual Employer party to this Agreement perform work or subcontract  
work covered by the Carpenters Master Agreement for Northern California, the  
Individual Employer shall observe the terms and conditions of that A greement.  
Recognition and Hiring  
A. Recognition:  
1.  
Recognition of Employer:  
The Union hereby recognizes the Employer as the sole and exclusive bargaining  
representative for their respective members, present and future, who are, or  
hereinafter become members. Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement,  
including Section II 2, it is the specific understanding of the parties that only those  
members of the Employer who have authorized the Employer to execute this  
Agreement on their behalf, or who execute the Agreement directly with the Union,  
shall be bound to this A greement.  
Employer Membership:  
This Agreement shall be binding upon each and every member of the Employer with  
the same force and effect as if this Agreement were entered into by each member  
individually. All members of the Employer shall be and continue to remain liable  
under this Agreement for and during the term hereof, irrespective of whether said  
members shall resign from the Employer prior to the expiration date of this  
Agreement, and such liability shall be deemed to have survived the termination of  
said membership and remain in force for and during the term of this Agreement.  
Such former members shall be bound by any renewals or extensions of this  
Agreement unless they give the Employer and the Union at least sixty days written  
notice prior to expiration date, or any subsequent yearly anniversary date in which  
this Agreement terminates, of their intent not to be bound by the new or renewed  
Agreement.  
The Employer shall advise the Union, in writing, monthly of changes in the  
membership of the Employer.  
Union Recognition:  
The Employer and each Individual Employer expressly acknowledge that they and  
each of them have satisfied themselves that the Union represents a majority of  
employees employed to perform bargaining unit work and agrees that the Union is  
the collective bargaining representative of such employees. The Employer on behalf  
of itself and each of its members specifically agrees that it is and they are  
establishing, or have established, a collective bargaining relationship by this  
Agreement within the meaning of Section 9 of the National Labor Relations Act of  
1947 as amended.  
Independent A greement:  
This Agreement is separate and distinct from and independent of all other  
Agreements entered into and between the Union and other Employer Organizations  
irrespective of any similarity between this Agreement and any other such  
Agreements, and no acts or things done by the parties to such Agreements or notices  
given pursuant to the provisions thereof, shall change or modify this Agreement or in  
any manner affect the contractual relationship of the parties herein.  
Union Security:  
1.  
Every person performing work covered by this Agreement who is a member of the  
Union and in the employment of an Individual Employer on work covered by this  
Agreement on the effective date of this Subsection II B, shall, as a condition of  
employment or continued employment, remain a member in good standing of the  
Union. Every other person covered by this Agreement and employed to perform  
work covered by this Agreement shall be required, as a condition of employment, to  
apply for and become a member of and to maintain membership in good standing in  
the Union on or after eight (8) days of employment on such work with an Individual  
Employer or the effective date of this Subsection I] B, whichever is later.  
Membership in the Union shall be available to any such person on the same terms  
and conditions generally applicable to other members. This Subsection shall be  
operative only to the extent permitted by Section XII of this Agreement.  
If Federal law is hereafter amended to permit a lesser requirement for union  
membership or union membership as a condition of employment than provided in  
this Subsection, the Employer and the Union will promptly enter into negotiations  
with regard to such subject.  
The Individual Employer shall not be required to discharge any employee pursuant  
to this Subsection II B until a written notice from the Union of such employee's non-  
compliance with this Subsection, stating all pertinent facts showing such non-  
compliance, shall have been served upon such Individual Employer and two (2)  
working days have been allowed for compliance therewith.  
The Union shall place at the end of the journeyman registration list any person on the  
list who demonstrates a lack of journeyman skills, qualifications, or work ethic. A  
person’s lack of skills, qualifications, or work ethic shall be based on the following:  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page /  
    
### AGC Fi  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 8  
     
a  
### AGC SS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Hiring:  
at least three (3) different Individual Employers have documented in writing within a  
nine (9) month period the person’s lack of skills, qualifications or work ethic.  
A person placed at the end of the registration list shall be referred to the Northern  
California Pile Drivers Joint Training Committee for testing and evaluation. If the  
Training Committee determines that the person has the skills and qualifications of a  
journeyman pile driver, such person shall be reinstated to his/her place on the  
registration list. If the Training Committee determines that the person does not have  
the required skills and qualifications of a journeyman, the Training Committee shall  
prescribe a course of training and shall remain where they were placed on the  
registration list.  
Once a person receives three (3) letters, the person shall not be able to select any  
classification on the list for which he/she has received a letter, until he/she is  
evaluated by the Training Committee. Written notification shall be presented to the  
journeyman at the time of termination and a copy shall be sent to the union.  
After evaluation, the person shall not be able to select any classification on the list  
for which he/she has been determined to lack the required skills and qualifications  
until he/she successfully completes the course of training prescribed by the Training  
Committee.  
The Union has traditionally established and will maintain open and non-  
discriminatory employment lists for the use of workers desiring employment on such  
work covered by this Agreement and such workers shall be entitled to use such lists.  
It is mutually agreed by the Employer and the Union to fully comply with all the  
provisions of Title 7 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Presidential Executive Orders  
No. 10925, 11114 and 11246, and California Fair Employment Practices Act, to the  
end that no person shall, on the grounds of age, sex, race, color, Vietnam Era  
Veteran status or national origin be excluded from participation in, be denied the  
benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination by not having full access to  
the contents of this A greement.  
The Individual Employer shall first call upon the Union for such workers as he/she  
or it may from time to time need, and the Union shall furnish to the Individual  
Employer the required number of qualified and competent workers and skilled  
mechanics of the classifications needed by the Individual Employer in accordance  
with the provisions of this Subsection II C.  
It shall be the responsibility of the Individual Employer when ordering workers, to  
give the Union all of the pertinent information regarding the worker's employment.  
The Union will furnish workers and skilled mechanics of the classification needed  
from the hiring hall lists and upon Employer request in accordance with the  
following qualifications and conditions for dispatch:  
Pile Driver Classifications  
1. Qualification for Placement on List:  
(a) Certified Journey Pile Driver  
(b) Current A pprentice Pile Driver  
2, Employer Requests - Qualification:  
(a) Certified Journey Pile Driver  
(b) Current A pprentice Pile Driver  
(c) Employer presents individual request for dispatch/hire as qualified.  
The Individual Employer in such an instance of solicitation must request such  
individual by name, and deliver by fax or otherwise in writing signed by a duly  
authorized representative of such Individual Employer. In the event all of the  
conditions of this subsection are complied with, the Union must dispatch the  
individual so requested by the Individual Employer. Possession of a valid dispatch  
issued by the Union shall be deemed sufficient evidence to the Individual Employer  
that the employee has, in fact, registered on the out-of-work list as required by this  
section.  
When ordering workers of the skills required, the Individual Employer will give  
notice to the Union, if possible not later than 2:30 p.m. of the day prior (Monday  
through Friday) or, in any event, not less than 17-1/2 hours, if possible, before the  
required reporting time and in the event that, 48 hours after such notice (Saturdays,  
Sundays and recognized holidays excluded), the Union shall not fumish such  
workers, the Individual Employer may procure workers from any other source or  
sources. If workers are so employed, the Individual Employer shall promptly report  
to the Union, each such worker by name. In emergency cases, workers may be  
dispatched other than at such dispatching times.  
Subject to the foregoing, the Individual Employer shall have complete freedom of  
selectivity in hiring and the Individual Employer retains the right to reject any job  
applicant referred by the Union for any reason. After eighty (80) hours of  
employment the Individual Employer may discharge for just cause only. Just cause  
is subject to Section IX Arbitration of Disputes. The Individual Employer may reject  
or discharge any employee for any reasons during the first eighty (80) hours of  
employment. Discharge for cause shall be in writing to the employee.  
The Union shall post in places where notices to applicants for employment with the  
Individual Employers are customarily posted, all provisions relating to the  
functioning of the hiring arrangements, including the provisions set forth in these  
subsections B and C of this Section II and each Individual Employer shall similarly  
post in places where notices to employees and applicants for employment are  
customarily posted, all provisions relating to the functioning of the hiring  
arrangements, including the provisions set forth in said subsections. The Hiring Hall  
arrangements are included in the Hiring Hall Rules stated as follows:  
1. Roll call shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. each Monday unless  
said Monday is a recognized collectively bargaining holiday, in which case  
there shall be no roll call for that week and the old out-of-work list will  
carry over to the next week;  
2. An individual seeking to check in on roll call must personally speak to a  
Field Representative answering the phones during roll call in order to be  
counted;  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 9  
    
### AGC Sv  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 10  
     
ea  
Ages  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
3. Dispatch hours are at 8:30 am. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday.  
Dispatch on Fridays shall be at 11:00 a.m. Dispatch shall commence at said  
times and continue until completed. Dispatches for emergencies can be  
made at any time during business hours;  
A. If an individual accepts a job that is on the board, such individual must  
show up for work at the starting time as directed by the requesting  
contractor. Failure to show up for work will forfeit the individual’s number  
on the out-of-work list and the individual will be placed at the bottom of the  
out-of-work list. If the eligible individual cannot be located within 15  
(fifteen) minutes after dispatch time, the job will go to the next eligible  
person on the out-of-work list;  
3. Pile Drivers Local 34 operates a non-discriminatory Hiring Hall. Any  
individual can get on the out-of-work list. Any individual seeking to be on  
the out-of-work list shall call (510) 430-9178 and register;  
6, In order to receive a dispatch, the individual worker must be in good  
standing;  
7. Dispatches will be mailed to the member and faxed to the contractor unless  
otherwise requested;  
8. No one may be dispatched to more than one employer at any one time;  
9, There will be a $15.00 charge per roll call for non-members of the UBC  
seeking to utilize the out-of-work list.  
10. Any individual dispatched to a job and works eighty (80) or more hours  
shall be placed on the bottom of the out-of-work list.  
Selection of applicants for referral to jobs pursuant to this Agreement shall be on a  
non-discriminatory basis and shall not be based on, or in any way affected by Union  
membership, By-laws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other  
aspect or obligation of union membership, policies or requirements, provided that the  
provisions hereof shall not modify or qualify the requirements of Subsection B of  
this Section II.  
Any person including an Individual Employer aggrieved by the operation of the  
hiring hall provisions of this Section has the right to submit his/her grievance to the  
permanent neutral Hiring Hall Arbitrator who shall be Gerald McKay, provided such  
Submission is made in writing, stating the reasons for the grievance, within ten (10)  
work days after the occurrence of the grievance. The Neutral Hiring Hall Arbitrator  
Shall have full power to adjust the grievance, and his decision thereon shall be final  
and binding upon the person submitting the grievance and all parties hereto. Forms  
for the submission of any such grievance shall be available at all times in the offices  
of the Union. Notices required by this subsection shall be mailed or delivered to  
P.O. Box 406, Burlingame, California 94011-0406. The date of the postmark or the  
date of delivery of the grievance, whichever is later, shall stop the running of the ten  
(10) day period. The costs of arbitration shall be bore proportionately by the  
Contractors and the Union regardless of which Individual Employer is involved.  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page ll  
Section III Hours, Shifts, Overtime  
A. Work Day:  
The work day shall be eight (8) hours’ work between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.  
The regular start time shall be between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.  
Upon submission of prior written notice by the Individual Employer to the Union, the regular  
work day may be changed to eight (8) consecutive hours (exclusive of the lunch period)  
between 6:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. Once the regular work day is changed, it shall be for no less  
than five (5) consecutive work days and may be changed only by written notification by the  
Individual Employer and the Union. Upon submission of prior written notice by the  
Individual Employer to the Union, the Saturday work shifts will have their own established  
starting times based upon bona fide owner mandated requirements.  
B. Regular Shifts:  
1, (a) Single shift work and the first shift on a multiple shift operation shall  
consist of eight (8) hours' labor to be performed between the hours of 8  
a.m., and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.  
(b) An Individual Employer may establish a four by ten work week Monday  
through Thursday with Friday at time and one-half up to 10 hours. When a  
holiday falls on Monday, the work week shall be Tuesday through Friday  
with 10 hours at time and one-half on Saturday during the regularly  
established shift. All other overtime shall be paid at the double time rate.  
2. Either two (2) or more shifts may be worked provided such work is established by  
working five (5) consecutive days; except that, it shall be permissible to establish  
two (2) or more shifts on all jobs of five (5) days or less duration.  
3. The work day on the second and third shift shall be eight (8) hours pay for seven (7)  
hours' work; the shift shall be successively continuous and shall be performed within  
the limits of a twenty-four (24) hour period. The starting time of the first shift of two  
or three shift work shall be between 5 a.m. and 8 a.m., at the option of the Employer.  
Once established, the starting time shall not be changed except to take advantage of  
maximum daylight.  
A, Where, by reasons of special transportation problems or other working conditions;  
the Union or the Contractor desires, a different starting time may be established by  
mutual agreement.  
Lack of mutual agreement shall be handled as described in Section IX (Arbitration of  
Disputes).  
5. In cases where more than one shift is worked, the shifts shall change every two (2)  
weeks if the majority comprising all shifts desire it.  
     
Ae  
ees  
6. The regular work week for straight time pay (exclusive of broken time or tide work) Ages ys)  
Shall be as follows: CALIFORNIA  
On single shift work: |= Between 8 a.m. Monday and 4:30 p.m. Friday.  
On double shift work: Between 5 am. Monday and 12:30 p.m. Friday CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 2  
    
AGC Fi vo,  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
On three shift work: Between 5 a.m. Monday and 8:30 a.m. Saturday.  
On single shift work as defined above overtime shall be paid at the double time rate  
except as follows: Time and one-half shall be paid for the first two (2) hours of  
overtime on a regular work day, regardless of whether such overtime is worked  
before or after the regular work hours. Overtime on Saturdays shall be paid at time  
and one-half for up to eight (8) hours during the regularly established shift. All other  
overtime shall be paid at the double time rate.  
On multiple shift work the foregoing reference to overtime at time and one-half shall  
be paid for work before or after seven (7) hours on the second and third shift.  
On offshore work, workers are to travel on the Individual Employer's time. The  
point of departure shall be the determining factor for calculation of travel and/or  
subsistence, providing such transportation is on a daily basis.  
When the Individual Employer deems it necessary for the employee to travel from a  
staging area to the work site or point of embarkation and back to the staging area in a  
vehicle provided by the Individual Employer, time spent traveling shall be on the  
Individual Employer's time.  
The location point of the staging area shall be the determining factor for calculation  
of Travel Expense, providing such transportation is on a daily basis. All time spent  
traveling from the staging area and back shall be paid for at the straight time rate to  
the nearest half-hour, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays included.  
When a worker is called upon to work straight through a job on a continuous basis,  
all consecutive hours worked beyond the first regularly established shift shall be paid  
for at the overtime rate. No worker shall return to a straight time pay basis under  
these circumstances until they shall have had eight (8) consecutive hours off work.  
Nothing in Paragraph B Section 4 of this Agreement shall modify this paragraph.  
There shall be a one-half hour meal period, which shall be scheduled by the  
Individual Employer so that the beginning of the meal period will occur not earlier  
than four (4) hours nor later than five (5) hours after the regular starting time of each  
shift. If an employee works over 10 hours but not more than 12 hours the employee  
is entitled to a second 30-minute meal period. However, if an employee works over  
10 hours the Union and the Employer and the Individual Employer agree to waive  
the employee’s entitled second 30-minute meal period so long as the first meal  
period was taken and the employee works not more than 12 hours.  
If the Individual Employer requires the employee to perform any work included in  
this Agreement through his/her scheduled meal period, the employee shall be paid at  
the double time rate until he/she is given a meal period or is given an opportunity to  
eat.  
Employees covered by this Agreement required to work more than two and one-half  
(2-1/2) hours after the end of his/her regular shift, shall be provided a meal at no cost  
to the employee and afforded an opportunity to eat his/her meal.  
Any dispute or grievance concerning meal periods shall first be processed under and  
in accordance with Article IX, Grievance Procedures.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page B  
10. When the Individual Employer produces satisfactory evidence in writing to the  
Union of a bona fide job requirement which certifies work can only be done outside  
the normal shift hours, and gives the Union prior notice by fax to the start of such  
special shift (except in the case of emergency), the Individual Employer may initiate  
such special shift of eight (8) consecutive hours (not in conjunction with any other  
shift), exclusive of meal period, Monday through Friday. Such special shift shall be  
in accordance with provisions IV C of this A greement.  
Employees' straight time rate shall be the applicable wage rate set forth in Section  
IV A; plus four dollars ($4.00) per hour.  
For the purpose of computing overtime, the four dollars ($4.00) per hour shall be  
added to applicable wage rate. It is understood that the "Agreed Interpretation of  
Special Shift Rules" signed by both parties October 29, 1980, will be modified to  
incorporate the changes in Section III 7.  
For purpose of this Paragraph, Saturday shall begin at the close of the regularly  
established shift on Friday.  
11. When employees covered by this Agreement are called out to work broken time or  
tide work, the minimum pay for such work shall be the equivalent of eight (8) hours  
at regular straight time including fringes. In computing time to be paid for under this  
provision each hour worked Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.  
shall be considered as being one straight time hour worked. Each hour worked  
between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. or between 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. shall be time and one-  
half to a maximum of two (2) hours. The foregoing shall not apply to time worked  
on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. All other overtime shall be paid at the double  
time rate.  
In the event employees covered by this Agreement are called out to work broken  
time or tide work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, the applicable overtime rate  
Shall be paid for each hour and the minimum pay shall be six (6) hours at the  
applicable overtime rate.  
SectionIV Wage Scales, Obligation  
A. It is hereby agreed that the following wage scales shall be effective as indicated below on all  
aforementioned work:  
### 1. WAGE SCALES  
### WAGES - RATE PER HOUR  
    
EFFECTIVE 7/1/2008 =7/1/2009  
Journey Pile Drivers,  
Wharf and Dock Builders I $33.90 $2.90* $3.10* $3.20*  
Foreman $37.29 8 8 8 AGC <S BF  
(10% above the journey Pile Drivers Wharf & Dock Builders I wage rate) CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008 - 202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 14  
### FRINGE BENEFITS  
EFFECTIVE 7/1/2008 7/1/2009 7/1/2010 7/1/2011  
Health & Welfare (Section VII A) $9.05  
Pension (Section VII C) $5.05 *  
Annuity (Section VII C1)** $3.75 * *  
Vacation (Section VII B) $3.25  
Work Fee (WF) $1.36  
Apprenticeship (Section VII D) $0.53 * *  
Calif. Construction A dvancement $0.04 *  
Program (Section VII J) or “I.P.”  
Contract Administration $0.09 * * *  
(Section VII K)  
UBC Health & Safety Fund $0.04  
Geographic & Marketing/  
LMCC (G & M) $0.02 * * *  
TOTAL: $23.18  
### APPRENTICES RATE PER HOUR & FRINGE BENEFITS  
### APPRENTICE WAGES  
EFFECTIVE 7/1/2008) =—7/1/2009 = 7/1/2011  
Period Percentage  
First (0-6 Months) 60% $20.34 *  
Second (7-12 Mos) 65% $22.04 + *  
Third (13-18 Mos) 70% $23.73 * *  
Fourth (19-24 Mos) 75% $25.43 * ss *  
Fifth (25-30 Mos) 80% $27.12 a * *  
Sixth (31-36 Mos) 85% $28.82 i * *  
Seventh (37-42 Mos) 90% $30.51 7 * *  
Eighth (43-48 Mos) 95% $32.21 i 8 *  
### APPRENTICE FRINGE BENEFITS  
EFFECTIVE 7/1/2008  
Period Fringe Benefits  
First (0-6 Months) Health & Welfare, Work Fees, A pprenticeship/T raining,  
UBC Health & Safety, I.P., Contract Admin., G & M  
Second (7-12 Months) |Health & Welfare, Work Fees, Apprenticeship/Training,  
UBC Health & Safety, I.P., Contract Admin., G & M,  
    
Vacation  
MS Third (13-18 Months) Health & Welfare, Work Fees, Apprenticeship/Training,  
CALIFORNIA UBC Health & Safety, I.P., Contract Admin. G & M,  
ASSOCIATED Vacation, Annuity  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 1  
Fourth (19-24 Months) Health & Welfare, Work Fees, A pprenticeship/Training,  
UBC Health & Safety, I.P., Contract Admin., G & M,  
Vacation, Annuity  
Fifth (25-30 Months) All Fringes  
Sixth (31-36 Months) All Fringes  
Seventh (37-42 Months) All Fringes  
Eighth (43-48 Months) Fringes  
* Increase to be allocated. Fringe benefit rates and increases shall follow those  
recognized and required by the Carpenters Trust Fund. Increases to wages and/or  
fringe benefits scheduled for 2009 shall be in accordance with the Memorandum of  
Understanding dated February 22, 2008. Increases to wages and/or fringe benefits  
scheduled for 2010 and 2011 shall be allocated by the Union.  
Vacation and Work Fee amounts are added to the hourly rate to establish the gross  
pay. The gross amount is subject to normal payroll deductions, the full vacation and  
work fee contribution are deducted, reported and paid to the appropriate Trust Fund.  
Whenever non-union or non-signatory Contractors appear on public work projects  
where wage determinations exist, such predetermined wage and fringe rates  
referenced in the bid specifications shall remain in effect for the duration of said  
project, provided, however, that each segment let by the Owner shall be deemed the  
project; provided, further that this provision shall not apply to projects where the  
formal advertised sealed bid procedure is not used. Increases in trust fund  
contributions shall not be subject to this provision, provided, further, that in no event  
Shall wages be frozen for more than thirty-six (36) months on any one project.  
Employees whose regular duties are as welders and shall have their  
necessary protective gear maintained by the contractor. Upon sign up on a job or  
project, the condition of the employee's gear will be noted and jointly agreed to in  
writing by the Individual Employer and the Employee. When an Individual  
Employer requests a certified welder such worker shall possess and maintain an  
active Certification Card from an Accredited Testing Laboratory certifying that the  
worker had passed a welding test for the type of welding for which the worker has  
been requested, i.e., A.W.S. State of California, etc.  
Any employee wishing to become certified and willing to take the necessary welding  
tests on his/her own time from the appropriate certified testing laboratory or testing  
facility shall be reimbursed for the testing cost, provided the worker has received  
prior approval in writing from their employer, from the Welding Certification  
Scholarship Program.  
A. The parties have adopted a welding certification scholarship program. Any  
journey or apprentice level pile driver who upon his/her own volition and  
on his/her own time secures one of the following welding certifications at  
the Carpenters Training Center shall be entitled to certification incentives  
from the Carpenters Training Committee, provided the worker is or  
becomes eligible to receive Health and Welfare benefits through the  
Northern California Carpenters Trust Fund.  
     
a  
### AGC SS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 16  
    
AGC ei  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
The Welding Certification Scholarship Program incentive shall be as  
follows:  
2G = $100.00  
3G = $200.00  
AG = $300.00  
6G = $400.00  
Workers who have failed to update their welding certification and have  
received incentives from the Welding Certification Scholarship Program  
within the term of the Agreement shall not be eligible for additional  
incentives from the Welding Certification Scholarship Program.  
Effective July 1, 2004, the Apprenticeship Training Trust shall increase by  
five cents ($.05) per hour in order to fund the new Welding Certificate  
Scholarship Program. The G & M Committee shall evaluate and adjust on a  
yearly basis the funding requirements to maintain the trust. Any changes or  
modifications made to the trust must be reviewed and posted with the DIR  
by February of each year.  
3. The Geographic and Marketing Committee has elected to pay any level  
member of Pile Drivers Local Union #34 who attends and completes the thirty-two  
(32) hour Qualified Rigger Class or the eight (8) hour Qualified Refresher Rigger  
Class at the Carpenters Training Center the amount of four hundred dollars ($400.00)  
for the 32 hour class or one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the eight (8) hour class,  
provided the individual member is in good standing and is eligible for Health and  
Welfare Benefits from the Northern California Carpenters Trust Fund.  
Workers who have failed to update their rigging certification and have received  
Rigger Class incentives from the Geographic and Marketing Committee within the  
term of the Agreement shall not be eligible for additional incentives from the  
Geographic and Marketing Committee.  
A. On bridges, powerhouses and dams, workers working from bosun's chairs or  
Swinging scaffolds or suspended from rope, cable, safety belts, or any device used as  
a Substitute for or in lieu thereof (excluding pile driving rigs) shall receive fifteen  
cents ($.15) per hour above the applicable journey or apprentice rate.  
Show Up Time: Any employee covered by this Agreement who is called to work at a given  
point or project and is not put to work shall be paid two (2) hours time. On days when the  
elements of nature prohibit the work from going on, workers reporting for work shall be paid  
two (2) hours pay (at straight time), provided they remain at the jobsite during this time ready  
to work should the weather clear. For the purpose of this Subsection IV 3B only, an  
employee shall be classified as pile driver and shall be entitled to the provisions of this  
subsection unless such employee has been assigned or reassigned to carpenter work by the  
Individual Employer prior to quitting time of the preceding work day.  
Employees time, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays (other than broken time or tide  
work) shall be reckoned by the half or full day, except overtime, which shall be reckoned by  
the hour and half-hour, except when an employee voluntarily quits or is laid off by reason of  
bad weather or a breakdown of essential equipment.  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 1/7  
Dispatch hours will be 8:30 am. & 4:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday and 11:00 a.m., on  
Friday. It shall be considered an "Emergency Dispatch" when a request is made for a worker  
to report to the job "as soon as possible." It shall not be considered an "Emergency Dispatch"  
when a worker is requested to report at the start of the shift or the midpoint of the shift. When  
a worker reports as promptly as possible under an "Emergency Dispatch" he/she shall be paid  
from the starting time of the half shift during which he/she reports. Nothing in this clause  
Shall be construed to justify a demand for pay for hours not worked because of failure to  
arrive at the start of the shift except on the first day of reporting for work as aforementioned  
in this clause.  
When workers work in inclement weather for emergency reasons it shall be for the duration of  
the emergency only and time shall be reckoned by the full or half day. If a job is designated  
as an emergency job by the owner or the contractor and a request is made to the Union by the  
Individual Employer to work the job, rain or shine, the Union may agree provided adequate  
and complete rain gear is furnished each worker by the Individual Employer.  
In the congested metropolitan areas of San Francisco, Oakland, Stockton, Sacramento and  
Eureka where free parking facilities are not available within three (3) blocks of the jobsite, the  
Individual Employer will provide such facilities and the Individual Employer shall have the  
right to designate parking areas to be used. Where, because of congested parking conditions,  
it is necessary to use public facilities, the Individual Employer shall reimburse the employee  
for the cost of such parking upon being presented with a receipt or voucher certifying the cost  
thereof, such reimbursement to be made on a weekly basis or at the conclusion of the project  
whichever occurs earlier.  
Efficiency: It is agreed that the Pile Drivers, through their business agents, use their efforts to  
encourage greater efficiency and safety on the job and that they refrain from solicitation of  
premium payment for employees represented by the Union.  
Except as provided in Section V hereof, neither party to this Agreement shall by working  
rules or any other means or device impose or direct any work limitations, affecting quantity  
restrictions, quotas or units of production, either maximum or minimum or relating to work  
covered by this Agreement.  
No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted that limit production or increase the time  
required to do any work. There shall be no limitation or restriction of the use of machinery,  
tools, or other laborsaving devices supplied by the Individual Employer.  
Each Individual Employer shall provide a payroll check to each employee on a weekly basis.  
Each Individual Employer shall provide with each payroll check an itemized check stub  
showing separately date of issuance, each contribution and deduction made for the pay roll  
period covered by the check or a separate statement showing the name of the employee, the  
name and the Individual Employer's contractors license number and/or address, and the  
employee's social security number. There shall be no cash payment of any nature or kind  
whatsoever.  
Should an Employer compensate an employee with a check for which payment is refused by  
the Employer's bank because of insufficient funds or should an Employer fail to pay his  
employees on a regular, established pay day for his job, the obligation of the Employer to the  
     
### TNO  
e  
individual employee shall continue at the employee's regular straight time rate for a period not AGC Sass  
to exceed forty (40) hours notwithstanding the above unless the refusal of payment by the CALIFORNIA  
bank is due to the bank's error or omission or to circumstances which are beyond the control ASSOCIATED  
of the Employer. Any question concerning responsibility of the Individual Employer on CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 18  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
whether the omission is beyond his control shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure of this  
Agreement. Nothing herein shall, however, prevent the Individual Employer from changing  
the payroll date upon five (5) days' notice to the appropriate local union of the union that the  
employee's pay date is being changed.  
If terminated by the Individual Employer for any reason, the employee shall be paid  
immediately in full. His pay status shall continue for each calendar day until pay is received;  
provided, however, that not more than eight (8) hours pay shall be charged for any calendar  
day with a maximum of five (5) days.  
An employee who reports to work at the beginning of the shift on a job or project for the first  
time on a Monday and who submits a written request prior to the end of the shift on Thursday  
shall receive pay on Friday prior to the end of the shift for the hours worked that Monday.  
The Employer may issue a cash advance not to exceed the hourly wages only earned Monday  
in lieu of an actual pay check.  
Future Wage C onsiderations  
As per Sections IV (Wage Scales) and Section VII (Fringe Benefits) of the Pile Drivers,  
Divers, Carpenters, Bridge, Wharf and Dock Builders Local Union #34 Master Labor  
Agreement, the Union and Employer hereby agree to the accept the action of the Trustees and  
agree to implement the following increases effective July 1, 2008, July 1, 2009, July 1, 2010,  
and July 1, 2011:  
July 1, 2008 $2.80  
July 1, 2009 $2.90  
July 1, 2010 $3.10  
July 1, 2011 $3.20*  
The future increases shall be allocated by the Union.  
* Individual Employers of the Employer that elect not to extend their agreement with the  
Union in 2011 shall be required to contribute an additional fifty cents ($.50) per hour to the  
Building Industry Trust Fund.  
Section V Number of Workers in Crews  
A.  
When employees covered by this Agreement are engaged in recognized pile driving work  
(including pulling of piling), the following minimum number of workers shall comprise the  
crew:  
Pile Driver, Floating 4 workers and 1 foreman  
Pile Driver, Skid 5 workers and 1 foreman  
Swinging Leads or hammer from Derrick, Crane,  
or A frame on Scow or Barge 4 workers and 1 foreman  
Swinging Leads or hammer from Derrick, Crane,  
or A frame on Land 3 workers and 1 foreman  
Pile Driver (Crawler or Crane) with Stable Leads 4 workers and 1 foreman  
Stable Leads from Derrick, Crane, on Scow or Barge 4 workers and 1 foreman  
Lagging hammer, swinging from line of power  
equipment of any kind 2 workers*  
*NOTE: One of whom shall be paid Foreman's rate.  
B. Sheet Pile:  
Skip Sheeting 1 worker  
Laced Sheet (No Loftsman) 1 worker and 1 foreman  
Laced Sheet (Loftsman)  
No Equipment 3 workers and 1 foreman  
(supported by hangers or stirrups)  
Equipment 2 workers and 1 foreman  
(supported by Manlift, Hylift,  
or similar new equipment)  
It is further understood that these employees, in addition to manning the pile driving rig, may  
also perform peripheral work in direct conjunction with the pile driving operations as long as  
they are within sight of the foreman and available when needed.  
This paragraph is to more efficiently use the workers required by the manning provisions of  
the A greement.  
All crewmembers will work directly with the rig if needed on production pile driving  
operations.  
On work involving the erection or dismantling of a pile driving nig, the crew shall consist of  
three (3) journeymen and one (1) foreman.  
When two (2) or more workers are employed to perform work covered by this Agreement,  
one shall be designated foreman, however, that in the event the jobsite is being supervised by  
a foreman member of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America on the  
payroll of the Employer this provision shall not apply.  
Section VI Subsistence Zone  
Subsistence Zone in the Northem California area (46 Counties) shall be allowed on the basis of  
average expenditure for which the employees covered by this Agreement have in the past been  
reimbursed in accordance with long standing custom and practice. Such reimbursement (per work  
day) shall be excluded from the wages of the employee and shall be paid to him/her weekly by separate  
check.  
For the purpose of simplifying the reimbursement of employees covered by this Agreement for  
Subsistence incurred and in accordance with negotiations between the Employer and the Union  
consummated the 22nd of February, 2008, it is agreed that subsistence zone and map changes shall  
apply for work bid on or after July 1, 2008 as follows:  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 19  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 20  
     
Me  
Reg  
### AGC Sao  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
On the work performed on projects located in the outer subsistence zones, each  
individual Pile Driver covered by this Agreement is to be paid the applicable  
Subsistence zone rate per work day (show-up days included) as reimbursement for  
subsistence.  
The center point of the radius for the subsistence zones shall be the Pile Drivers  
Local Union #34 office, located at 55 Hegenberger Place in Oakland, California.  
As defined in the subsistence zone map, the rate of reimbursement for subsistence  
shall be as follows:  
Effective J uly 1, 2008 through J une 30, 2010:  
Zone 1 - Inner 60 Miles No Subsistence  
Zone 2 - 60 Miles to 90 Miles $30.00 per day  
Zone 3 - 90 Miles and Over $50.00 per day  
Effective J uly 1, 2010 through J une 30, 2012:  
Zone 1 - Inner 60 Miles No Subsistence  
Zone 2 - 60 Miles to 90 Miles $30.00 per day  
Zone 3 - 90 Miles and Over $60.00 per day  
Permanent Yard or Shop: An Individual Employer shall not pay subsistence to  
employees employed in its permanent yard or shop unless such employee is assigned  
to work on a job or project which is outside the permanent yard or shop and within a  
Subsistence zone. The actual subsistence zone rate shall be paid to employees  
working in an Individual Employers yard or shop when the employee is working on  
a project, which is new construction or major alteration or demolition of an existing  
facility.  
These provisions are embodied in Exhibit A - Subsistence Zone Map covering Northern California  
forty-six (46) Counties, attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof.  
Section VII  
A.  
Fringe Benefits  
Health and Welfare Plan  
Each Individual Employer covered by this Agreement shall contribute to the Carpenters  
Health and Welfare Trust Fund of California the amount listed in Section IV per hour for each  
hour paid for or worked, whichever is greater, by each employee covered by this Agreement  
for the purpose of providing Health and Welfare benefits for such employees.  
Such contributing Individual Employer agrees to be bound by that certain Trust  
establishing the Fund dated March 4, 1953, as such may from time to time be amended or  
supplemented. The Union and the Employer agree that this plan is and has been a Defined  
Contribution Plan.  
There shall be no duplicating contributions with respect to any employee or the work of any  
employee.  
Employer contributions for a foreman, assistant superintendent and superintendent covered by  
this Agreement shall be based upon the hourly rate in effect for pile driver journeypersons in  
the particular jurisdiction where they are employed.  
For the purposes of interpreting and applying this Section, such Trust Fund contributions shall  
not be considered as compensation. The total number of hours worked by each employee in  
each month, for which contributions are made to this Trust Fund, shall be reported by the  
Individual Employer to this Trust Fund.  
Vacation and Holiday Plan  
Each Individual Employer covered by this Agreement shall contribute to the Northern  
California Carpenters Vacation and Holiday Trust Fund of California the amount listed in  
Section IV per hour for each hour paid for or worked, whichever is greater, by each employee  
covered by this Agreement for the purpose of providing Vacation and Holiday benefits for  
such employees.  
Such contributing Individual Employer agrees to be bound by that certain Trust  
establishing the Fund dated May 1, 1972, as such may from time to time be amended or  
supplemented. The Union and the Employer agree that this plan is and has been a Defined  
Contribution Plan.  
There shall be no duplicating contributions with respect to any employee or the work of any  
employee.  
Employer contributions for a foreman, assistant superintendent and superintendent covered by  
this Agreement shall be based upon the hourly rate in effect for journeymen in the particular  
jurisdiction where they are employed. The total number of hours worked by each employee  
in each work month, for which contributions are made to this Trust Fund, shall be reported by  
the Individual Employer to this Trust Fund.  
1. Work Fees  
Effective for all work performed on and after July 1, 2004, it is agreed that upon  
written authorization, provided by the Union, as required by law the amount of  
2.375% per hour, for each hour paid for or worked, shall be deducted from the  
Vacation and Holiday benefit of each workman and remitted directly to the Union, as  
the Union may from time to time direct. The amount of the deduction shall be  
specified on a statement transmitted to the workers. Such remittance shall be made  
to the Union not less than twelve (12) times per year.  
The amount to be paid by the 46 Counties Work Fee option, in connection with the  
Vacation and Holiday contribution shall be an amount equal to 2.375% of the total  
hourly wage-fringe benefit package of the highest Pile Driver journeyman  
classification in this Agreement (excluding Contract Administration and California  
Construction Advancement Program contributions) effective on July 1, 2004 and to  
be effective July 1, of each succeeding year, or the amount as required by the  
AGC/Carpenters Master Labor A greement whichever is less.  
Pension Plan  
Each Individual Employer covered by this Agreement shall contribute to the Carpenters  
Pension Trust Fund of California the amount listed in Section IV per hour for each hour paid  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 21  
     
a  
### AGC SS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 22  
    
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
for or worked, whichever is greater, by each employee covered by this Agreement for the  
purpose of providing Pension benefits for such employees. Such contributing Individual  
Employer agrees to be bound by that certain Trust Agreement establishing the Fund dated  
August 19, 1958, as such may from time to time be amended or supplemented. The Union  
and the Employer agree that this plan is and has been a Defined Contribution Plan.  
There shall be no duplicating contributions with respect to any employee for the work of any  
employee.  
Individual Employer contributions for a foreman, assistant superintendent and superintendent  
covered by this Agreement shall be based upon the hourly rate in effect for journeymen in the  
particular jurisdiction where they are employed. For the purposes of interpreting and  
applying this Section, such Trust Fund contributions shall not be considered as compensation.  
The total number of hours worked by each employee in each work month, for which  
contributions are made to this Trust Fund, shall be reported by the Individual Employer to this  
Trust Fund.  
1, Annuity  
Each Individual Employer covered by this Agreement shall contribute to the  
Carpenters Annuity Trust Fund for Northern California the amount listed in Section  
IV above for each hour paid for or worked, whichever is greater, by each employee  
covered by this Agreement, for the purpose of providing annuity benefits for such  
employees. Such contributing Individual Employer agrees to be bound by that  
certain Trust Agreement establishing the Fund dated August 1, 1981, as such has  
been or may from time to time be amended or supplemented. The Union and the  
Employer agree that this plan is and has been a Defined Contribution Plan.  
There shall be no duplicating contribution with respect to any employee for the work  
of any employee.  
Individual Employer contributions for a foreman, assistant superintendent and  
Superintendent covered by this Agreement shall be based upon the hourly rate in  
effect for the journeymen in the particular jurisdiction where they are employed. For  
purposes of interpreting and applying this section, such Trust Fund contributions  
shall not be considered as compensation.  
The total number of hours worked by each employee in each work month, for which  
contributions are made to the Trust Fund, shall be reported by the Individual  
Employer to the Trust Fund.  
De 401(k) Plan  
Effective September 1, 2008, each Individual Employer covered by this Agreement  
shall contribute in a timely manner, compliant with Federal Law, to the Northern  
California Carpenters 401(k) Trust Fund, on behalf of each employee covered by this  
Agreement who has voluntarily elected to participate in the 401(k) Plan the amount  
specified on an Enrollment/Contribution Change form filed by the employee with  
his/her Individual Employer not to exceed the Internal Revenue Code Section 402(g)  
limit. The contribution amounts, which are voluntarily deferred from wages, and the  
frequency of change of the deferral, will be governed by the various Plan documents  
of the Northern California Carpenters 401(k) Trust Fund.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 23  
Only those employees covered by this A greement that are eligible to receive A nnuity  
Fund contributions are eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan. Owners, partners  
and superintendents covered by Section VII G (Fringe Benefit Contributions for  
Supervisors) of this Agreement are eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan,  
provided those individuals are current participants in the Annuity Plan and provided  
that Annuity contributions are remitted for all corresponding periods in which 401(k)  
contributions are made on behalf of the Owner, partner, or superintendent.  
Each contributing Individual Employer agrees to be bound to that certain Trust  
Agreement establishing the Fund dated August 1, 2008, as such has been or may  
from time to time be amended or supplemented. The Union and the Employer agree  
that this Plan is and has been a Defined Contribution Plan.  
D. Apprenticeship Plan  
1. Each Individual Employer covered by this Agreement shall contribute to the  
Carpenters Trust Fund of California, the amount listed in Section IV per hour, for  
each hour paid for or worked, whichever is greater, by each Employee covered by  
this Agreement for the purpose of providing Training and education benefits for such  
employees.  
The eight cents ($.08) allocated on 6/16/85, to be paid into the Carpenters Training  
Trust Fund of California, for sole purpose of providing Training and Education of  
Pile Drivers, Apprentices and Journeymen upgrading programs, under the direction  
and control of the Northern California Pile Driver/Bridge Builder Joint Training  
Committee shall be in addition to those monies currently being paid into the Trust on  
behalf of employees employed under this Agreement. Further, the parties agree that  
the Northern California Pile Driver/Bridge Builder Joint Training Committee will  
immediately meet with the Carpenters Training Trust, for the purpose of determining  
allocation of the money currently paid by Employers of Pile Drivers, in order to  
assure continuity of hiring assignment, employment, or termination of all personnel  
employed to administer the current program, subject to approval of the bargaining  
parties.  
Such contributing Individual Employer agrees to be bound by that certain Trust  
Agreement establishing the Fund dated March 4, 1963, as such may from time to  
time be amended or supplemented.  
There shall be no duplicating contributions with respect to any Employee or the work  
of any Employee.  
Individual Employer contributions for a foreman, assistant superintendent and  
superintendent covered by this Agreement shall be based upon the hourly rate in  
effect for journeymen in the particular jurisdiction where they are employed.  
2. Apprentice Pile Driver/Bridge Builder:  
     
### TNO  
The term "A pprentice Pile Driver/Bridge Builder” as used herein means an employee  
e  
undergoing a system or course of training in pile driver and bridge building work, AGC Seuss:  
who shall be permitted to perform any work done by a journeyman pile driver, as CALIFORNIA  
provided in Section 1 and whose age when starting their apprenticeship is over ASSOCIATED  
seventeen (17) years of age. The term apprenticeship shall not exceed a period of CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 24  
     
Me  
Reg  
### AGC Sao  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
four (4) years. It shall not be a contractual obligation, but it shall be the policy of the  
Individual Employers, party to this Agreement to employ apprentices who might  
have been laid off due to lack of work before employing new apprentices.  
The Individual Employers recognize their obligation to employ and train apprentices.  
The Individual Employers further recognize that apprentices are obligated to attend  
daytime training classes upon demand to remain in the Apprenticeship Program.  
Therefore, it is agreed that the Individual Employers will make every effort to re-  
employ apprentices removed from their jobsites by the Apprenticeship Program for  
training purposes.  
A Committee will be established to review the Apprenticeship Program in order to  
make possible more training opportunities.  
The details of this program shall be negotiated by a subcommittee on which the  
Employer and the Union shall be equally represented and shall comply with all  
pertinent legal requirements.  
Apprentices' Hours, Wages and Working C onditions:  
The terms and conditions of apprenticeship agreed on are as follows:  
Effective J uly 1, 2008:  
First Period: Oto6months 60%  
Health & Welfare, Work Fees, Apprenticeship/Training, UBC  
Health & Safety Fund, California Construction Advancement  
Program, Pile Drivers Employers Contract Administration,  
Geographic & Marketing/LMCC  
Second Period: 7to12 months 65%  
Health & Welfare, Work Fees, Apprenticeship/Training, UBC  
Health & Safety Fund, California Construction Advancement  
Program, Pile Drivers Employers Contract Administration,  
Geographic & Marketing/LMCC, Vacation  
Third Period: 13 to 18 months 70%  
Health & Welfare, Work Fees, Apprenticeship/Training, UBC  
Health & Safety Fund, California Construction Advancement  
Program, Pile Drivers Employers Contract Administration,  
Geographic & Marketing/LMCC, Vacation, Annuity  
Fourth Period: 19 to 24 months 75%  
Health & Welfare, Work Fees, Apprenticeship/Training, UBC  
Health & Safety Fund, California Construction Advancement  
Program, Pile Drivers Employers Contract Administration,  
Geographic & Marketing/LMCC, Vacation, Annuity  
Fifth Period: 25to30months 80% Full Fringes  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 25  
Sixth Period: 31to36months 85% Full Fringes  
Seventh Period: 37 to 42 months 90% Full Fringes  
Eighth Period: 43to48 months 95% Full Fringes  
NOTE: Re-rates are based on three conditions:  
1, Length of time in the Apprenticeship program.  
2. Accumulated work hours.  
3. Fulfillment of school requirements.  
Approved Employers having three (3) journeymen employed on the job may have  
one (1) apprentice and one (1) additional apprentice may be employed for five (5)  
additional journeymen, (No more than one [1] apprentice assigned to any one crew),  
exceptions may be made at the discretion of the local Joint A pprentice Committee.  
Basis for Payments of Fringe Benefits  
Payment for contributions for fringe benefits as provided in Sections A, B and B1, C and C1,  
D, J and K shall be based upon all hours for which an employee has received payment;  
provided, however, that contributions shall not become compounded by overtime, and all  
overtime hours for purposes of fringe benefit contributions shall be considered straight time  
hours.  
Payments or contributions to each of the trust funds provided for in this Agreement shall be  
based on hours paid which include contributions for eight (8) hours in multiple shifts where  
seven (7) hours are worked with eight (8) hours pay and for all straight time hours paid under  
the provisions of Broken Time, Tide Work or Show-Up Time. No payments or contributions  
shall be computed at the rate of time and one-half or double the required rate of payment or  
contribution per hour, nor shall any such payment or contribution be considered part of the  
hourly wage rates for the purpose of computing overtime, either under this Agreement, the  
Fair Labor Standards Act, the Walsh-Healy Act, or any other law.  
Bonding  
Any Employer or any subcontractor who is delinquent in the payment of contributions for  
fringe benefits to any Trust herein provided for a period of one calendar month shall be  
notified by the Administrator of said Trust or Trusts of such delinquency, following which  
notice the Union may require such delinquent Employer or subcontractor to provide a bond in  
a manner satisfactory to said Administrator for a sum equal to Five Thousand Dollars  
($5,000.00) or two (2) times the delinquent Employer's estimated contribution to such Trust,  
whichever is the greater. Upon failure of such delinquent Employer to provide a bond as  
aforesaid, the Union shall withdraw or withhold employees from the job of such delinquent  
Employer and such withdrawal or withholding of employees shall not constitute a violation of  
this Agreement or be cause for any legal action against the Union by such delinquent  
Employer.  
Whenever any employer covered by this Agreement is delinquent with respect to the payment  
of any contributions or other sum of money due to any Trust Fund specified in this  
Agreement, the Union may withdraw workers and place appropriate pickets at the premises of  
     
### TNO  
is)  
the employer or places where said employer is performing work. The workers so withdrawn AGC “ois  
may not be discharged or permanently replaced, and the action permitted by this Section shall CALIFORNIA  
not be deemed a violation of the no-strike provisions of this A greement.  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 26  
     
### 7 INO  
  
### AGC O77  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Fringe C ontributions for Supervisors  
The Union and the Employer agree that when employees are working in a supervisory  
position above the rank of foreman the Individual Employer may make payments with respect  
to their work into the Carpenters Health and Welfare Trust Fund for Northern California and  
Carpenters Pension Trust Fund for Northern California on the basis of 145 hours per month in  
accordance with the schedules set forth in the Master regardless of hours worked  
by any such employee in a month, provided; however, the Individual Employer having made  
one (1) payment on an employee shall continue to make such payment so long as the  
employee is in their employ. Such payments shall be the same as the applicable journeymen  
contribution.  
1. Supervisors A nnuity  
The Union and the contractor agree that when employees are working in a  
supervising position above the rank of foreman the individual contractor may make  
payments with respect to their work in to the Carpenters Annuity Fund for Northern  
California on the basis of a minimum of 145 hours per month in accordance with the  
schedules set forth in the Agreement, regardless of hours worked by any such  
employee in a month; provided, however, the Individual Employer having made one  
(1) payment on any employee shall continue to make such payments so long as the  
employee is in their employ.  
2. The Union and the Employer agree that the Individual Employers covered by this  
Master Agreement may cover owners or partners, in the Carpenters Trust Funds (as  
in Section G and G1) by paying contributions with respect to the work of such an  
individual into these funds monthly on the basis of 145 hours per month in  
accordance with the hourly rates set forth in this Master Agreement, regardless of the  
number of hours worked by any such individual in a month, provided that such  
individual, if not an owner or partner, would be working as a journeyman Pile Driver  
under the terms of this Master Agreement and provided further that the Individual  
Employer, having made one (1) payment with respect to the work of such an  
individual, shall continue to make such payments monthly so long as the individual  
continues to perform work for the Individual Employer in the capacity of an owner  
or partner. Such individual shall be deemed an employee covered by this Agreement  
solely for the purpose of participating in said Trust Funds and shall have no other  
rights or privileges under this Agreement as an employee.  
Fringe Payment C ontinuity  
In order to provide for benefits to employees without disruption during periods of contract  
negotiations and to assure an orderly means of collecting Trust Fund contributions during  
such periods, each signatory employer agrees that they shall be obligated to contribute to each  
and every Trust Fund referred to in this Agreement for any period following the termination  
date of this Agreement unless and until a lawful impasse occurs or until a successor  
Agreement is negotiated. Each signatory employer further agrees that the Union, any of its  
constituents, and/or any of all said Trust Funds may enforce this obligation through the  
grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement and/or by action to collect such  
delinquent contributions filed in the United States District Court in the Northern District of  
California.  
Audit  
Each Individual Employer upon request of the Employer, Union or any Trust Fund specified  
in this Agreement, shall permit the Trust Fund A uditors to review any and all records relevant  
to the enforcement. Such review shall be permitted not less than five (5) working days after  
demand.  
The cost of audit shall be borne by the Individual Employer if a shortage disclosed by the  
audit exceeds $1,000.00 and is not the result of clerical error.  
The Union and the Employer shall have the right to receive and utilize any information  
derived from the audit. Trustees of the Trust Funds specified in this Agreement are  
authorized to determine the appropriate formula to be applied to compute appropriate Trust  
Fund contributions. The Individual Employer shall be required to comply with such Trust  
Funds formula and make payments to the Trust Funds immediately upon being advised of the  
amount due.  
California C onstruction Advancement Program  
For the purpose of protecting, improving and advancing the interest and welfare of the  
Construction Industry, its Individual Employers and employees, each member of the  
Employer (members of Associated General Contractors of California, Inc.) and each  
Individual Employer not a member of the Employer will contribute effective July 1, 1993 four  
cents ($.04) per hour worked by each pile driver in his employ to the California Construction  
Advancement Program, an Employer trust created for this purpose. The Individual Employer  
hereby adopts and agrees to be bound by the terms of that certain Trust Agreement creating  
the California Construction Advancement Program, an Employer trust created for this  
purpose. The Individual Employer hereby adopts and agrees to be bound by the terms of that  
certain Trust Agreement creating the California Construction Advancement Program dated  
September 21, 1974, as such might be amended from time to time pursuant to the terms  
thereof and further agrees to observe and be bound by the actions and determination of the  
Trustees of said Trust.  
Pile Drivers’ C ontract Administration Trust Fund  
A trust fund entitled "The Pile Drivers' Contract Administration Trust Fund" shall be created  
to provide for the costs of the Employer administering the provisions of Section IX  
(Arbitration of Disputes). The trust fund shall be administered solely by Trustees selected by  
the Employer in accordance with the Trust Agreement to be executed by the Employer. The  
contribution as described below shall commence with the month following notice by the  
Carpenters' Funds Administrative Office of Northern California, Inc., to the Individual  
Employer. The Union shall have the right, not more than one time per year, to independently  
audit the Trust Fund.  
Each Individual Employer signatory hereto hereby adopts and agrees to be bound by the terms  
of that certain Trust Agreement creating the Pile Drivers' Contract Administration Trust Fund  
and any amendments or modifications which may be made to said Trust pursuant  
to the terms thereof and further agrees to observe and be bound by the actions and  
determination of the Trustees of said Trust.  
Effective July 1, 2004, each signatory employer shall contribute the sum of nine cents ($.09)  
per hour worked or paid for to the Pile Drivers Contract Administration Trust Fund which is  
established for the purpose of administering the collective bargaining agreement through the  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 2/  
     
a  
### AGC SS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 28  
     
Me  
Reg  
### AGC Sao  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
grievance procedure or otherwise on behalf of all Individual Employers signatory to this  
Agreement.  
Contribution to G & M/LMCC Trust Fund  
Effective July 1, 2004, each signatory employer shall contribute the sum of two cents ($.02)  
per hour for each hour worked or paid for by each employee to the Pile Drivers’ Geographic  
& Marketing/LMCC Fund which is established for the purpose of administering the G &  
M/LMCC. Each Individual Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreement as it exists and as  
it may be amended from time to time pursuant to the actions and determinations of the G & M  
Committee.  
to "Home" Trust Funds  
Each Individual Employer when working outside the geographic jurisdiction of the Union  
shall make appropriate contributions outlined herein, to the various Trust Funds identified in  
this Agreement. However, should Trust Funds in other geographic jurisdictions in which the  
Individual Employer is performing work covered by this Agreement require payment for  
employees into that location’s respective Trust Funds, the Individual Employer shall not be  
required to make contributions into both jurisdictions Trust Funds.  
Section VIII General Provisions  
A.  
Holidays:  
The following days shall be classified as holidays:  
Saturdays, Sundays, New Year's, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, President's Day, Memorial  
Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and the day following, and Christmas  
Day. Holidays falling on Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday. Pay for work  
performed on the aforementioned days shall be at overtime rates.  
Holidays found in the Pile Driver Master Labor Agreement shall be the recognized holidays  
for all employees performing work covered by this A greement.  
Tools and T oolhouse:  
The Individual Employers herein agree to provide on every job where toolmen employees  
covered by this Agreement are employed, a tool house, equipped with adequate locking  
provisions and heating facilities for drying clothes. If an employee's working tools or gear are  
lost or destroyed by reason of the burning or sinking of Employer's floating equipment or tool  
house, or if the employee's equipment is burglarized while in the Employer's care as provided  
for in Paragraph B above, the Employer will replace all tools certified as lost up to a limit of  
$400.00 per worker (if management is provided an inventory of tools submitted to the  
Employer on a form provided by Employer at time of employment). Within seven days from  
the date of a properly supported claim for loss of tools as provided herein, the Individual  
Employer shall acknowledge liability therefore or reject the claim.  
All employees covered by this Agreement engaged as toolmen shall enter upon their duties  
with sharp tools; and if such tools are dulled within working hours, the Contractor shall either  
provide for the sharpening of such tools or permit the owner to sharpen it or them within  
working hours.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 29  
Working Rules:  
It is agreed that no working rule or practice of either Union or Employer will be claimed or  
asserted contrary to the terms and provisions of this A greement.  
Safety:  
Pile driving foremen shall be in charge of crews at all times; his duties on hoisting equipment  
shall consist of supervision, signaling and direction of the operation. The foreman in charge  
of a crew shall be charged with the responsibility for the safety of the members of their crew  
and with compliance with recognized safety rules and practices. No foreman shall work more  
than one shift in any calendar day. It is agreed that it is not the intent of this paragraph to  
limit or define the size of acrew. No Employer shall fail or neglect:  
1, To provide and use safety devices and safeguards.  
2. To adopt and use methods and processes reasonably adequate to render the place of  
employment safe.  
3. To do every other thing reasonably necessary to protect the life and safety of  
employees.  
The Union and all employees agree that they will cooperate with the Contractor and  
with each other in the carrying out of safety measures and practices for accident  
prevention, and shall perform their duties in each department in such manner as to  
promote safe and efficient operation of their own department and of the job as a  
whole.  
Employees who as a direct result of an on-the-job industrial injury are unable to  
complete a full day's work shall nevertheless be paid for the full day on which such  
injury occurred; provided, however, that said injury requires the attention of a  
licensed physician and that said physician has certified to the employee's inability to  
complete work on that day because of such injury.  
When an employee is required to work under a dock from a skiff, raft or float in water  
independent of other workers and apart from any other operation, whereby they might become  
out of sight of other workers or supervisory employees, then an additional workman shall be  
assigned to work with them for the actual time worked under the above conditions to insure  
proper communications with operating personnel.  
Steward:  
A Steward shall be a working employee, appointed by the Union, who shall, in addition to  
their work as a Pile Driver/Diver, be permitted to perform during working hours their Union  
duties that cannot be performed at other times. The Union agrees that such duties shall be  
performed as expeditiously as possible and the Individual Employer agrees to allow Stewards  
a reasonable amount of time for the performance of such duties. The Union through the  
foreman shall notify the Individual Employer in writing of the appointment of such Steward.  
     
### TNO  
Recs  
e  
In no event shall an Individual Employer discriminate against a Steward, transfer, layoff, or AGC  
discharge the Steward on account of any action taken by the Steward in the proper CALIFORNIA  
performance of their Union Duties. ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 30  
No Steward shall be terminated without just cause. Stewards shall be subject to lay off or  
termination just as any other Pile Driver on the project. If a Steward is discharged the  
Individual Employer shall provide prior notice defining the reasons for the termination.  
Each employee shall be allowed reasonable pick-up time at the end of their shift, which shall  
be determined by the employer and the Union.  
Discharged Employees:  
Employees receiving notices of discharge shall be allowed a reasonable time (not less than 15  
minutes) before the end of the shift to assemble their tools.  
Pre-J ob  
The Union or Contractor may require a pre-job conference for the purpose of discussion and  
agreement of work assignments and application of the contract to the job.  
The Individual Employer shall submit letters of assignment of work on the Individual  
Employer's letterhead.  
Each Individual Employer shall send a monthly report in writing to the Union which includes  
a list of all jobs currently in progress (in a format to be supplied by the Union) on which Pile  
Drivers are employed by that Individual Employer on work covered by this Agreement. Such  
monthly report information shall include the location and the start date of all jobs where Pile  
Drivers are employed by that Individual Employer on work covered by this A greement.  
Section IX Arbitration of Disputes  
Any dispute conceming any application or interpretations of this Agreement shall be subject to the  
following procedure.  
     
Me  
Reg  
### AGC Sao  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
1, In the event that a dispute arises on a job, it shall be first reported to the Individual  
Employer and/or the Business Representative of the Union who shall then attempt to  
adjust said grievance or dispute at the jobsite level.  
2. The grieving parties shall specify the date(s) of the alleged violation(s) and the  
provision(s) of the Agreement applicable to the dispute.  
3. If said grievance or dispute is not satisfactorily adjusted by the Union and the  
Individual Employer or his representative within three (3) days after submission to  
the Individual Employer, the matter may be submitted by either party to a permanent  
Board of Adjustment created for the settlement of such disputes.  
A, The Board of Adjustment shall be composed of one (1) member named by the  
Union, one (1) member named by the Association and an Impartial Arbitrator. The  
parties shall select an alternate to the permanent neutral Arbitrator who shall serve  
only in the event the permanent neutral Arbitrator is unable to serve. At any point in  
the proceedings should the panel be unable to reach a majority vote the Arbitrator  
shall participate and the A rbitrator's decision shall be final and binding.  
5. In addition to any rule or procedure, which the panel may adopt, the Board of  
Adjustment shall be governed by the following provisions:  
10.  
11,  
12.  
(a) No briefs shall be submitted nor a transcript made of the hearing except by  
mutual agreement of the parties or by direction of the Arbitrator. Any  
transcript ordered by any party shall be at the expense of the party ordering  
the transcript.  
(b) In the case of deadlock, the Arbitrator shall render a decision upon the  
conclusion of the case at the Board of Adjustment hearing, unless the time  
is extended by mutual agreement of the parties or at the request of the  
Arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall not render an expanded opinion in any case  
unless requested by the parties.  
(Cc) The parties shall select and utilize a permanent Impartial Arbitrator who is  
willing to abide by the procedures set forth herein. By agreement of both  
parties, the Impartial Arbitrator may be changed or replaced.  
(d) The Board of Adjustment or the Arbitrator may fashion an appropriate  
remedy to resolve the issue including, but not limited to, back pay, money  
damages, injunctive relief, audit, payment of wages and fringe benefits to  
persons damaged by the contract violations, interest or attorneys’ fees.  
(e) Any grievance involving an Individual Employer not a member of any of  
the signatory associations shall be submitted directly to the Arbitrator  
unless the Individual Employer agrees to submit the matter to the Board of  
Adjustment.  
Disputes arising out of work assignment, which is governed by Section X,  
Jurisdictional Disputes, will not be heard at these panels.  
The Board of Adjustment shall meet within forty-five (45) days on any item properly  
before the Board. Failure of either party to meet or to participate shall cause the  
Board or Arbitrator to hear and decide the matter on a default basis.  
Decisions of the Board of Adjustment or an Impartial Arbitrator shall be within the  
scope and terms of this Agreement and shall be final and binding upon all parties  
hereto.  
In the event an Individual Employer fails to comply with any such decisions, the  
Union may withdraw employees or strike the Individual Employer, and such action  
shall not be a violation of this Agreement so long as such noncompliance continues,  
provided, however, that the Union may not enforce the provisions of Section I D  
(Subcontracting) by economic action or picketing.  
The expenses of the Joint Adjustment Board and the Impartial Arbitrator, including  
the cost of a court reporter, shall be borne equally by the parties hereto.  
No proceeding hereunder based on any dispute, complaint or grievance herein  
provided for, shall be recognized unless the grievance procedure steps outlined  
above have been followed. The Arbitrator or Board may for good cause, accept a  
late submission, which shall then be decided by the Board of Adjustment.  
The Board of Adjustment shall establish regular meeting dates and administer  
grievances filed in conjunction with this section as set forth in the rules and  
procedures, which may be amended from time to time by the parties.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 31  
    
AGC Fi vo,  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 32  
    
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
13. A decision of the Board of Adjustment by majority vote, or the decision of a  
permanent Arbitrator shall be enforceable by a petition to confirm an arbitration  
award filed in the Superior Court of the City and County of San Francisco, State of  
California, or the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.  
Any party who fails or refuses to comply with a decision of a Board of Adjustment  
or an award of the Arbitrator, as the case may be, shall be responsible for reasonable  
attomeys' fees for the filing and trial of any petition to confirm and enforce said  
decision or award in addition to all other remedies available through law, unless the  
petition is denied.  
14. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be in the City and County of San  
Francisco, and/or County of Alameda, unless mutually agreed to move to another  
location.  
15. No proceedings mentioned here in above on any dispute, complaint or grievance  
shall be recognized unless called to the attention of the Employer and the Union  
within ten (10) working days after the last date the alleged violation was committed.  
16. On all cases relating to discharge or discipline, employees must file their grievances  
with the Union within three (3) working days after the imposition of the discharge or  
discipline. Thereafter, the Union must file its grievance with the Board of  
Adjustment within ten (10) working days after the employee files his grievance. The  
Board shall meet within seven (7) working days following submission of the  
grievance. The Board of Adjustment or Arbitrator shall be free to sustain the  
discharge or to find discipline other than discharge to be appropriate and may order  
reinstatement with full or partial back pay as they deem appropriate provided there  
shall be no discrimination on the part of the Individual Employer against any  
employee for activities on behalf of, or representation of the Union not interfering  
with the proper performance of their duties.  
17. If failure of a Board of Adjustment to meet within one week (7 working days) is due  
to the unavailability of the Union, the wage payment and Trust Fund contribution  
liability shall be limited to the above seven (7) working days. If the Employer or  
Individual Employer, or arbitrator is unavailable to meet, the wage payment and  
Trust Fund contribution liability shall be continuing.  
Section X J urisdictional Disputes  
There shall be no cessation or interference in any way with any work of the Employer or any  
Individual Employer by reason of Jurisdictional Disputes between the Union and any other Union with  
respect to jurisdiction over any of the work covered by this Agreement. Such disputes will be settled  
by the Unions themselves, or submitted to the International Presidents of the Unions involved in the  
dispute for determination. Until such determination is made and confirmed by the disputing Unions,  
the work shall proceed as originally assigned by the Individual Employer. Craft jurisdiction is neither  
determined nor awarded by classifications or coverage descriptions appearing in this A greement.  
Upon affiliation of the Employer with the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the  
Construction Industry, or a successor voluntary program to which the Union is also affiliated, the  
Contractors, the Individual Employers, and the Union shall be bound by the procedures for settlement  
of the jurisdictional disputes as adopted under such a program. The Individual Employer shall be  
bound by an agreement between the General Presidents.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 33  
Section XI Term of Agreement  
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from the 1st day of July, 2008, through the 30th  
day of June, 2012 and shall continue thereafter unless either party, not more than ninety (90) days or  
less than sixty (60) days prior to the 30th day of June, 2012, or not more than ninety (90) days nor less  
than sixty (60) days prior to the 30th day of June of any subsequent years, serves written notice on the  
other of its desire to change, modify, amend, supplement, renew, extend or terminate this A greement.  
The Union shall have the right to strike and the Employer shall have the right to lock out with respect  
to such contract opening of the Agreement June 30, 2012 only after ten (10) working days has passed  
in order to provide time for negotiations.  
### GEOGRAPHIC & MARKET CONDITIONS  
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive position of the  
parties within the industry during the term of this Agreement. Consistent with the recognition,  
Effective July 1, 2004, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the parties to the  
Agreement hereby establish a G & M Committee composed of three (3) representatives appointed by  
the Carpenters 46 Northern Califormia Counties Conference Board and three (3) representatives  
appointed by the Associated General Contractors Association of California. The committee will  
review requests for changes in the terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement that may be necessary  
to preserve work opportunities for employees and Individual Employers covered by the A greement.  
The G & M Committee is authorized to approve such changes as it deems to be in the best interest of  
the parties to the Agreement. The parties to this Agreement will work together to preserve work  
opportunities for the Employers and Employees covered by this A greement.  
The committee shall meet at least once per quarter and identify and discuss areas of concern to the  
parties involving issues including, but not limited to non-signatory Employers, private work recovery,  
new technology, prevailing wages, etc.  
Section XII Integration  
A. This Agreement shall supersede all existing Agreements between the Union and any of the  
Employers or their members relating to pile driving work, and it is agreed that during the life  
of this Agreement neither the Union nor the Employers will make demands beyond or in  
conflict with the same.  
B. It is not the intent of either party hereto to violate any laws, rulings, or regulations of any  
Governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this A greement,  
and the parties hereto agree that in the event that any provisions of this Agreement are finally  
held or determined to be illegal or void as being in contravention of any such laws, rulings, or  
regulations, nevertheless, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect,  
unless the parts so found to be void are wholly inseparable from the remaining portion of this  
Agreement. The parties agree that if and when any provisions of this Agreement are held or  
determined to be illegal or void they will then promptly enter into lawful negotiations  
concerning the substance thereof.  
In the event that the Union, which is signatory hereto, enters into any other agreement with  
other employers or employers associations, which shall have terms more favorable to such  
employers or employers associations and the members thereof than this Agreement, then such  
more favorable provisions shall become a part of and apply to this Agreement. This Section  
     
  
AGC a] we  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 34  
shall not be applicable to Agreements between the Union and Individual Employers covering  
work in bona fide permanent yards or shops.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOPF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly  
authorized representatives the day and year here in above first written.  
### FOR THE EMPLOYER:  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
By  
Thomas T. Holsman, CEO  
   
### FOR THE UNION:  
### CARPENTERS 46 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COUNTIES CONFERENCE BOARD FOR AND  
### ON BEHALF OF THE REGIONAL COUNCIL AND ITS AFFILIATE PILE DRIVERS LOCAL  
### UNION #34  
By  
   
Robert H. Alvarado, Chairman  
By  
   
William Feyling, Executive Director  
### PILE DRIVERS LOCAL UNION #34  
By  
Pat Karinen, Senior Field Representative  
   
    
AGC i 7  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
### DIVING AGREEMENT  
(Addendum to Pile Drivers  
Between the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc. and the Carpenters 46 Northern  
California Counties Conference Board, on behalf of the Northern California Carpenters Regional  
Council for and on behalf of its affiliate Pile Drivers Local Union #34.  
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into this first day of July, 2008 amending, modifying, renewing and  
supplementing the agreement made and entered into July 1, 2004 and each and every prior Agreement,  
predecessor to this Agreement, entered into by and between the parties hereto, by and between the  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC., a nonprofit corporation  
and/or other employers becoming signatory hereto parties of the first part, hereinafter referred to as the  
Employer or Individual Employers, each acting for and on behalf of all of its respective members  
### and/or themselves, and the CARPENTERS 46 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COUNTIES  
CONFERENCE BOARD, on behalf of the Northern California Carpenters Regional Council for and  
on behalf of its affiliate Pile Drivers Local Union #34, and the Regional Council other affiliated Local  
Unions, parties of the second part, hereinafter referred to as the UNION provides:  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties hereto to provide, establish and put into practice uniform  
rates of pay, hours of employment and conditions of work for the employees represented by the  
UNION which are employed from time to time by the Employer or Individual Employers, and  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties hereto to provide, establish and put into practice effective  
methods for the settlement of misunderstandings, disputes or grievances which may arise between the  
parties hereto to the end that the Employer or Individual Employers may be assured of continuity of  
operations and the Employees represented by the UNION may be assured of continuity of  
employment.  
NOW THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:  
Unless specifically specified to the contrary, in this Addendum, all terms and conditions of the Pile  
Drivers Master Agreement shall apply to Divers, Tenders and Assistant Tenders and be incorporated in  
this Addendum. Special Shifts II] B Paragraph 10 shall not apply.  
Article I Area of J urisdiction  
This Agreement shall cover the work more specifically defined herein as within diving classification  
and located within the area of Northern California, which term is intended to mean that portion of  
California above the Northern Boundary of Kern County, the Northern Boundary of San Luis Obispo  
County, and the Westerly Boundaries of Inyo and Mono Counties, consisting of the following forty-six  
(46) Counties: Alameda, Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Contra Costa, Colusa, Del Norte, El  
Dorado, Fresno, Glenn, Humboldt, Kings, Lake, Lassen, Madera, Mariposa, Marin, Mendocino,  
Merced, Modoc, Monterey, Napa, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, San Benito, San Francisco,  
San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Solano, Sonoma,  
Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity, Tulare, Tuolumne, Y olo, Y uba.  
It is understood further that by the above listing the jurisdiction of the Union over diving work is not  
thereby limited to that area. On the contrary, the Union claims jurisdiction over diving of certain areas  
beyond that covered by this contact, i.e., the Northern part of Nevada, Counties of Humboldt, Elko,  
Washoe, Pershing, Lander, Eureka, White Pine, Storey, Carson, Douglas, Lyon, Churchill and Mineral,  
the State of Utah and/or one half the distance to the nearest Pile Drivers local.  
Page 35  
     
a  
### AGC S87  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 36  
    
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Article II Coverage  
1.  
The work covered by this Labor Agreement, and these Special Working Rules for Divers on  
Construction Work, shall include construction work and work performed from oceanographic  
and/or research vessels, seismographic and/or other vessels operating in all areas located the  
distance one-half way from Local 34 to the nearest Pile Drivers Local affiliated with the  
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, and shall include work concerning  
fisheries research and all other types of oceanographic and marine research and/or  
experimental bell diving work requiring the use of deck decompression chambers with  
submersible diving chambers.  
The work covered by this Agreement and this Appendix shall include all work under the  
jurisdiction of the Union and the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America  
and shall include, but not be limited to, such work as described as follows: commercial diving  
in all its branches and phases, such as the salvage of all ships, vessels and barges, etc., the  
underwater repair, removing, dismantling demolition, burning and welding in all marine  
Salvage operations; all underwater construction and reconstruction, and the salvage and  
removing of all underwater structures; underwater inspections and repair of hulls, docks,  
bridges and dams, underwater pipelines, sewage and water systems, underwater suction and  
discharge lines such as those used at chemical plants, pulp mills and desalinization plants;  
inspecting, surveying, removing rescuing and recovering of all objects below water surface;  
all underwater work necessary on offshore oil platforms, permanent or temporary, including  
all floating drill rigs and jack-up platforms; all underwater well completion; all underwater  
work on pipelines and hookups including petroleum, gas, water and sewage systems; the  
laying of underwater power and/or communications cables where diving is necessary; all  
offshore marine mining and dredging operations using Divers in any phase of their work  
seeking minerals and/or precious metals, etc.; all petroleum, fisheries, oceanographic research  
and experimental work where the use of Divers are necessary; all underwater demolition and  
blasting work requiring the use of Divers; the term underwater structures shall include  
beached or sunken vessels and other marine equipment.  
Article II Definitions  
1.  
### DPIC:  
Designated person in charge (per OSHA Regulations).  
### DIVE CREW/TEAM:  
A minimum crew/team size will be one (1) Diver, one (1) Tender and one (1) Assistant  
Tender. Crew sizes can be increased to meet productivity and safety requirements by  
contractor.  
### DIVE MASTER:  
A Dive Master will be added to dive crew/team to meet job requirements when necessary for  
dive operations with multiple divers or deep gas diving operations are being performed. A  
Dive Master is in charge and responsible for all aspects of the diving operation, supervising  
all personnel in the dive crew/team.  
### DIVER:  
A Diver is a person who wears a type of diving gear which directly supplies him compressed  
air or other gases for breathing purposes and who personally enters and descends below the  
surface of the water, or any liquid medium, to work at the ambient pressures encountered  
therein. For the purposes of this Agreement, a person working in a submerged one  
atmosphere bell/vehicle is considered a Diver.  
### STANDBY DIVER:  
A Standby Diver is a person required to be on duty for any day or part thereof, but who has  
not been required to descend below the surface of the water or any liquid medium or be put  
under pressure in a chamber. A Standby Diver is also a person, dressed in at the dive  
location, immediately available to assist a Diver in the water for safety purposes.  
### TENDER:  
A Tender is a person who, from above the surface of the water or liquid medium, aids and  
assists the Diver by coordinating topside activity; aids in dressing and undressing the Diver;  
maintains communications with the Diver; and generally maintains the diving equipment on  
the job site.  
### ASSISTANT TENDER:  
An Assistant Tender is an extra Tender available to assist the Diver’s regular Tender by  
handling tools, equipment and diver’s hose.  
### MANIFOLD OPERATOR:  
A technician qualified to operate a manifold and/or mixer of helium, oxygen or other gases  
for the purposes of providing the proper mixture of these breathing gases to the Diver or  
Divers.  
### FSW:  
Feet of Sea Water or equivalent static pressure head.  
ArticleIV —_ Pay Scales  
Any Classification of Dive, crew or team shall receive a minimum of eight (8) hour’s pay at the  
appropriate pay rate for show up time or for any day or part thereof worked.  
A.  
Dive Master:  
A Dive Master shall receive the same pay as a Diver diving plus $1.50 per hour. Dive Master  
does not include depth or enclosure premiums.  
Diver’s Regular Hourly Rate:  
The Diver including a Stand-By Diver who is not required to dive shall receive the pay of Pile  
Driver Foreman hourly rate plus one dollar ($1.00) per hour.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 37  
     
a  
### AGC SS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 38  
    
AGC i 7  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Diver Diving:  
The premium a Diver is paid for actually descending below the water surfaces. This amount  
shall be 2x (double) the Divers regular hourly rate. This premium is used in calculating  
overtime pay.  
Tender:  
1, A Tender shall receive the hourly rate of the classification of the Pile Driver  
Foreman when he is required to be on duty regardless of whether any diving is  
actually performed or not.  
2. The Tender shall receive a premium equivalent to one (1) hour at the straight-time  
pay rate per shift for dressing and/or undressing a Diver when work is done under  
hyperbaric conditions.  
Assistant T ender:  
The Assistant Tender shall receive the hourly rate of the classification of Pile Driver.  
Manifold Operator:  
1. For days on which mixed gas diving is not conducted, a Manifold Operator shall  
receive Pile Driver Foreman’s scale.  
2. For days on which mixed gas diving is conducted, a Manifold Operator shall receive  
Pile Driver scale, plus five dollars ($5.00) per hour.  
Bell/V ehicle or Submersible O perator Not Under Pressure, etc.:  
One atmosphere bell specifically designed for construction work (including Jim Suits, etc.)  
and self-propelled manned submersible operators shall be paid the Diver's regular hourly rate  
plus premiums.  
ROV Operator:  
Wage scale same as a Pile Driver Foreman.  
ROV Tender/T echnician:  
Wage scale same as a Pile Driver.  
Premiums:  
1. Depth Premiums:  
A Diver who is required to descend from the surface shall receive double (2 x) the  
diver’s regular hourly rate, for depths up to and including 50 feet. When it is  
necessary for a Diver to descend below the surface of the water to depths in excess  
of 50 feet, a premium according to the following schedule shall be paid, in addition  
to the diving regular hourly rate as determined above:  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 39  
### DEPTH BELOW WATER SURFACE (FSW) AMOUNT OF PREMIUM PER FOOT  
50 ft. to 100 ft. $2.00  
100 ft. to 150 ft. $3.00  
151 ft. to 220 ft. $4.00  
221 ft. and deeper $5.00  
2. The actual depth in FSW shall be used in determining depth premium.  
3. Diving in Enclosures Premium Rates:  
(a) Where it is necessary for Divers to enter pipes or tunnels, or other  
enclosures where there is no vertical ascent, a premium according to the  
following schedule shall be paid, in addition to the Diving hourly rate and  
any applicable depth pay.  
### DISTANCE TRAVELED FROM ENTRANCE AMOUNT OF PREMIUM PER SHIFT  
0 ft. to 25 ft. N/C  
29 ft. to 300 ft. $1.00 per ft.  
(b) When it is necessary for a diver to enter any pipe or tunnel or other  
enclosure over 300 feet from entrance or less than 48" in height, the  
premium will be by mutual agreement, between the diver, the Union and the  
Contractor, but never less than $1.00 per foot.  
(c) Premiums shall be paid under (a) or (b) above, but shall not be paid under  
both. These are daily/shift premiums and shall be determined from point of  
entry.  
Depth and enclosure premiums are at the straight time rate in addition to the base or overtime  
rate and are not to be used in calculating overtime pay.  
### MISCELLANEOUS  
(a) This Agreement does not include any gear or special equipment rentals.  
(b) In all cases where a diver is working, the employer shall furnish all underwater tools  
of the trade necessary to perform such underwater work except small tools, as  
wrenches, hammers, etc. There shall be no exception to this rule. Diving ladder or  
diving stage, in accordance with the State Safety code, will be available at all times  
when diver is in the water.  
(c) Fringe benefits are due as specified in the Pile Driver Master Labor A greement for  
Northern California for each hour worked or paid for.  
(d) Employees may be required to perform any combination of work within the Diving  
team/crew, (with the exception of dive Master) provided they are paid at the highest  
rate at which he/she has worked for the shift.  
     
ea  
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 40  
     
### 7 INO  
  
### AGC O77  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### (ec) BIDDING ONJOBS:  
It is agreed that there shall be no contract diving unless the contractor Diver meets all  
conditions, purposes, and intents of this Addendum and the Master Agreement.  
Contract Diving is defined in Article II, Coverage.  
### Article V Subsistence and Travel  
### A.  
Divers and tenders while traveling outside the Bay Area shall receive travel expense  
equivalent to their actual traveling time at straight time wages, including the day of departure  
and the day of their return; plus transportation for persons and equipment to and from the job,  
plus reasonable room and board, or payment in lieu of room and board, by mutual agreement  
between the Individual Employee and the Individual Employer with wnitten notification to the  
Union by the Individual Employer within five work days of the Individual Employee’s  
employment on the job in question. For the purpose of this Section, the Bay Area is defined  
as that area within the outer line zone on Exhibit A of the Pile Drivers Agreement. Within the  
outer line, divers and tenders shall receive the same travel expenses provided for in the Pile  
Driving Agreement for Pile Drivers.  
Employees living aboard floating or other offshore quarters provided by the Employer located  
at the work site:  
1, And who are ready and available for work at the start of their regular shift Monday  
through Friday shall receive a minimum of eight (8) hour's pay at their applicable  
hourly rate of pay.  
2. And who are required by the Employer to stand by on Saturday, Sunday and  
holidays, but not put to work, shall receive a minimum of eight (8) hours pay at the  
applicable overtime rate of pay.  
ArticleVI Working Rules, Starting Times, Shifts and Overtime  
Unless specifically specified to the contrary in this Addendum, all terms and conditions of the Pile  
Drivers Master Agreement shall apply to Divers, Tenders and Assistant Tenders and be incorporated in  
this Addendum. Special Shifts II] B Paragraph 10 shall not apply.  
Article VII Safety & Health Working Rules  
The Union and the Contractors recognize that the work in which they engage is both highly specialized  
and extremely technical in nature, and that unless continuous and effective safety practices are  
employed, the possibility of accidents of extreme gravity to life, limb and property will always be  
present.  
Safety shall have the highest priorities in this Agreement.  
All Federal and State Safety Rules, Regulations, Orders and Decisions shall be binding upon  
the individual contractor and shall be applied to all work covered by this Agreement. No  
worker shall be required to work under unsafe conditions. The individual contractor shall be  
solely responsible for implementation and maintenance of such Safety Laws, Rules,  
Regulations, Standards, Orders and Decisions. Neither the Union nor any Local Unions or  
District Councils are responsible for such implementation or maintenance.  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 41  
A copy of the appropriate Rules and Regulations must be on the job site and be available to  
all members of the dive team.  
B. When a Diver is performing diving work under the terms and conditions of this Agreement,  
he shall be tended by a Tender who is satisfactory to the Diver concerned.  
Article VIII Deep Water, Bell/Vehicle System Total Saturation Diving  
### Agreement  
The Employer and the Union agree that all work covered under this Agreement or using any diving  
apparatus, will be performed by employees represented by the United Brotherhood of Carpenters of  
America.  
This Agreement shall apply to cover the following classifications:  
Dive Masters, Divers, Tenders, Operators, Operators of Remote Operated Vehicle (ROV), Manifold  
Operators, Technicians, EMT Technicians, and Systems Tenders.  
The Diving Contractors and the Union agree that the strong intent of this Agreement is that only  
experienced and highly qualified Journeyman will be employed.  
ArticleIX Type of Work within the J urisdiction of this Agreement  
### TY PE OF WORK WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF THIS AGREEMENT  
Bell/Vehicle Diving or Total Saturation Systems specifically including, but not limited to, all  
underwater and deck work in support of same when using surface supplied air or mixed gas.  
Article X Working Rules and Conditions Governing Pressurized  
### Bell/V ehicle Diving and/or Saturation Diver  
### WORKING RULES AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING PRESSURIZED BELL/V EHICLE DIVING  
### AND/OR SATURATION DIVER  
A. Definitions:  
1, Bounce of Short Duration Diving Using the Pressurized Bell: Consists of a diver  
going under pressure to a given depth, spending a short period of time consistent  
with the current diving tables, and then coming to the surface and decompressing on  
short decompression profile. Minimum crew size will be a total of seven (7) men.  
2. Bell Diving Under Pressure: For short duration dives using a bell, in addition to the  
Diver's regular hourly rate, plus depth premium. This premium is per day, midnight  
to midnight and shall be paid regardless of whether or not the diver actually leaves  
     
the bell. Ae  
### AGC Sv  
3. Saturation Mode of Diving: CALIFORNIA  
(a) Consists of a Diver living under pressure continuously until a work task is  
complete and then decompressing at a saturation decompression profile. It CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 42  
    
### AGC Zi  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
shall be permissible to saturate two (2) divers to complete a work task that  
prohibits short duration diving with a minimum crew of ten (10) men plus  
additional personnel as required.  
On saturation work, where more than two (2) Divers are required to be  
saturated (diving is required around the clock), the minimum crew will be a  
total of fifteen (15) men. There is a minimum of two (2) men with the  
diving system at all times to ensure and protect the integrity and safety of  
the diving equipment through daily maintenance.  
Wages (Daily Rate):  
(a)  
Short Duration Diving:  
A Diver using surface supplied air or helium-oxygen receives Stand-by pay  
of Pile Driver Foreman scale plus $1.00 per hour with a minimum of eight  
(8) hours. When required to descend below the surface of the water, he will  
be paid Diver Diving rate plus applicable premiums.  
Short Duration Bell/V ehicle Diving:  
Short duration diving or bounce dive using the Pressurized Bell/V ehicle;  
Diving pay rate plus applicable premiums, wet, dry, minimum eight (8)  
hours, midnight to midnight.  
Saturation Diving:  
Current divers, Stand by rate until saturation starts. Once under pressure,  
the rate will be six (6) times Diver's 8-hour minimum standby rate (24)  
times straight time Diver diving pay rate, plus bonus for applicable depth or  
pressure. The pay remains the same for either dive or non-dive days. This  
rate constitutes payment for the entire 24 hour period measured from  
midnight to midnight.  
Dive Master:  
Dive Master shall receive a Diver diving rate plus $1.50 per hour. Dive  
Master shall not dive except in a life-threatening emergency. No other  
premiums apply.  
Assistant Dive Master:  
Assistant Dive Master shall receive the Diver Diving rate, plus $1.00 per  
hour. No other premiums apply.  
EMT Technician:  
EMT Technician as systems tender, will be paid the same hourly rate as a  
Pile Driver Foreman, with a minimum of eight (8) hours shift.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 43  
(g) Technicians:  
All other technicians and support personnel will be paid at the rate of a Pile  
Driver.  
(h) ROV Operator:  
Wage scale same as a Pile Driver Foreman.  
(i) ROV Tender/T echnician:  
Wage scale same as a Pile Driver.  
(j) Saturation Depth Pay Bonus:  
$1.00 per foot of pressure shall be paid per Diver per twenty-four (24)  
hours, from midnight to midnight, from surface (wet or dry).  
(k) Stand-By Alert Time:  
Stand-By Alert Time on beach shall be one stand-by shift per twenty-four  
hours.  
Hours and Overtime:  
(a) Support Personnel:  
When twelve (12) hour shifts are worked, the starting time for each Shift  
Shall be established within one (1) hour of 12:00 am. and 12:00 p.m.,  
unless mutually agreed to the contrary by the parties. The pay for the first  
eight (8) hours of any twelve (12) hour shift, Monday through Friday, shall  
be paid at the regular hourly rate (1 x), and time and one-half (1-1/2 x) the  
regular hourly wage rate shall be paid for the next two (2) hours and two  
times (2 x) thereafter.  
(b) Saturation Crews:  
Overtime for people under saturation begins Friday midnight and ends  
midnight Sunday. The following holidays, or day celebrated as such, shall  
be paid at double the straight-time rate:  
New Y ear’s Day Labor Day  
Martin Luther King Jr. Day Thanksgiving Day  
Presidents Day Day after Thanksgiving Day  
Memorial Day Christmas Day  
Independence Day  
     
(c) Shift Personnel When Billeted Offshore:  
### TNO  
Recs  
e  
The employer may establish two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts. When working AGC Sass  
such shifts the starting time for diving support personnel shall be CALIFORNIA  
established within one (1) hour of 12:00 a.m. or 12:00 p.m., unless mutually ASSOCIATED  
agreed to by parties. When working twelve (12) hour shifts, starting time CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 44  
for Divers shall be established as beginning when the Diver is summoned to  
perform tasks by Diving Foreman or by a party to whom he has delegated  
this authority. If extenuating circumstances prevent at least six (6) hour rest  
period between shifts, the personnel working such shifts shall be paid  
during the rest period and overtime rates will apply. The contractor agrees  
that he will make reasonable effort to restrict such activity to strictly  
extraordinary situations.  
(d) Diver is to receive a minimum of twelve (12) hours stand-by pay per day.  
(e) All work on Saturday will be paid at time and one-half (1-1/2 x) the regular  
hourly wage rate. All hours worked on Sunday and holidays will be paid at  
double (2 x) the regular hourly wage rate.  
6. Crew Size Concerning Bounce and/or Saturation Diving  
(a)  
     
### 7 INO  
  
### AGC O77  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Bounce of Short Duration Using Bell:  
Consists of a Diver going under pressure to a given depth, working a period  
of time consistent with current tables and then coming to the surface and  
decompressing. Minimum crew size will be a total of seven (7) men:  
1 - Dive Master  
3 - Divers  
1 - Manifold Operator  
2 - Systems Tenders  
Saturation Diving:  
Consists of diver diving under pressure continuously until work task is  
complete and then decompressing at a saturation decompression profile. It  
shall be permissible to saturate two (2) Divers to complete work task  
that prohibits short duration diving with a minimum crew of ten (10) men.  
On saturation work, where more than two (2) Divers, but not more than four  
(4) Divers are required to be saturated, the minimum crew to maintain the  
operation around the clock will be fifteen (15) men. The numberof men  
needed for this operation shall be consistent with the job requirements and  
the safety requirement.  
Saturation Crew Breakdown:  
- Dive Master  
- Technician  
- Dive Masters (Assistant)  
- Systems Tenders, 2 shall be EMT technicians  
- Manifold Operators  
- Divers  
### H NO BN NHN  
In the event that any of the diving crew on paid shore stand-by alert finds it  
necessary to go off alert, he will be off the payroll during the time he is not  
on alert and the diving contractor will hire a person on a temporary basis to  
replace him/her.  
ArticleXI Diving Crew Steward  
Diving Crew Steward will be appointed on each job by the Union. All provisions of the Master Labor  
Agreement pertaining to Job Stewards shall apply.  
Article XII Hiring  
1. All dispatches and job clearances for the members of diving crews will be dispatched  
through the Pile Drivers Local Union #34. To avoid duplication of order and to  
affect an orderly hiring procedure, the Diving Contractor agrees that when calling the  
Union for personnel to designate a responsible representative, which the Union will  
recognize as the Agent of the diving Contractor with the authority to hire. The  
Union shall maintain an exclusive nondiscriminatory hiring hall to fill requisitions  
for personnel on the diving crew. The Diving Contractor agrees to give preference to  
Local area personnel.  
2. Divers can report directly to the job site after first notifying the hiring hall. All  
pertinent information such as name, social security number and their local union  
number and location will be given to the Union prior to work or not later than 24  
hours. The Contractor shall be the sole judge of the qualifications of the diving  
crew.  
Article XIII Grievance Procedures  
Procedure for settlement of Grievance and disputes shall be conducted in the manner provided for in  
the Pile Drivers Master Labor A greement.  
Article XIV Term of Agreement  
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from the 1st day of July, 2008, through the 30th  
day of June, 2012, and shall continue thereafter unless either party, not more than ninety (90) days or  
less than sixty (60) days prior to the 30th day of June, 2012, or not more than ninety (90) days nor less  
than sixty (60) days prior to the 30th day of June of any subsequent years, serves written notice on the  
other of its desire to change, modify, amend, supplement, renew, extend or terminate this A greement.  
The Union shall have the right to strike and the Employer shall have the right to lock out with respect  
to such contract opening of the Agreement June 30, 2012 only after ten (10) working days has passed  
in order to provide time for negotiations.  
ArticleXV Geographic & Market  
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive position of the  
parties within the industry during the term of this Agreement. Consistent with the recognition,  
effective July 1, 2004, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the parties to the  
Agreement hereby establish aG & M Committee composed of three (3) representatives appointed by  
the Carpenters 46 Northern California Counties Conference Board and three (3) representatives  
appointed by the Associated General Contractors Association of California. The committee will  
review requests for changes in the terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement that may be necessary  
to preserve work opportunities for employees and individual employers covered by the Agreement.  
The G & M Committee is authorized to approve such changes as it deems to be in the best interest of  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 45  
    
### AGC Fi  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 46  
the parties to the Agreement. The parties to this Agreement will work together to preserve work  
opportunities for the Employers and Employees covered by this Agreement.  
The Committee shall meet at least once per quarter and identify and discuss areas of concer to the  
parties involving issues including, but not limited to non-signatory Employers, private work recovery,  
new technology, prevailing wages, etc.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly  
authorized representatives the day and year here in above first written.  
### FOR THE EMPLOYER:  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
By  
   
Thomas T. Holsman, CEO  
### FOR THE UNION:  
### CARPENTERS 46 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COUNTIES CONFERENCE BOARD FOR AND  
### ON BEHALF OF THE REGIONAL COUNCIL AND ITS AFFILIATE PILE DRIVERS LOCAL  
### UNION #34  
By  
   
Robert H. Alvarado, Chairman  
By  
   
William Feyling, Executive Director  
### PILE DRIVERS LOCAL UNION #34  
By  
   
Pat Karinen, Senior Field Representative  
    
AGC i 7  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### DRILLED PILE ADDENDUM  
(Addendum to Pile Drivers  
Between the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc. and the Carpenters 46 Northern  
California Counties Conference Board, on behalf of the Northern California Carpenters Regional  
Council for and on behalf of its affiliate Pile Drivers Local Union #34.  
This Agreement entered into this 1st day of July 2008, modifying, renewing and supplementing the  
Agreement made and entered into July 1, 2004 between the ASSOCIATED GENERAL  
CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA INC., a non-profit corporation and/or other employers becoming  
signatory hereto, parties of the first part, hereinafter referred to as the CONTRACTORS, each acting  
for and in behalf of its respective members, and the CARPENTERS 46 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
COUNTIES CONFERENCE BOARD, on behalf of the Northern California Carpenters Regional  
Council for and on behalf of its affiliate PILE DRIVERS LOCAL UNION #84, parties of the second  
part, hereinafter referred to as the UNION, provides:  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties hereto to provide, establish and put into practice uniform  
rates of pay, hours of employment and conditions of work for the employees represented by the  
UNION which are employed from time to time by the Employer or Individual Employers, and  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties hereto to provide, establish and put into practice effective  
methods for the settlement of misunderstandings, disputes or grievances which may arise between the  
parties hereto to the end that the Employer or Individual Employers may be assured of continuity of  
operations and the EMPLOYEES represented by the UNION may be assured of continuity of  
employment:  
### NOW THEREFORE IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:  
Unless specifically specified to the contrary, in this addendum, all terms and condition of the Pile  
Drivers Master Labor A greement shall apply to and be incorporated in this addendum.  
Article I Area of J urisdiction  
This Agreement shall cover the work more specifically defined herein as within pile drilling  
classifications and located within the area of Northern California, which term is intended to mean that  
portion of California above the northern boundary of San Luis Obispo County and the westerly  
boundaries of Inyo and Mono Counties, consisting of the following forty-six (46) counties: Alameda,  
Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Contra Costa, Colusa, Del Norte, El Dorado, Fresno, Glenn,  
Humboldt, Kings, Lake, Lassen, Madera, Mariposa, Marin, Mendocino, Merced, Modoc, Monterey,  
Napa, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, San Benito, San Francisco, San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa  
Clara, Santa Cruz, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Solano, Sonoma, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity,  
Tulare, Tuolumne, Y olo, Y uba.  
It is understood further that by the above listing the jurisdiction of the UNION over Pile Drilling work  
is not limited to that area. On the contrary, the UNION claims jurisdiction over Dnilled Pile in certain  
area beyond that covered by this contract, i.e., the northern part of Nevada consisting of the counties of  
Humboldt, Elko, Washoe, Pershing, Lander, Eureka, White Pine, Storey, Carson, Douglass, Lyon,  
Churchill, and Mineral, the state of Utah, and/or one half the distance to the nearest Pile Drivers Local.  
2008-202  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 47  
    
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 48  
    
### AGC Zi  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Article II Coverage  
This Agreement shall cover all work performed by the EMPLOY ER or its successor or assigns in the  
drilled pile industry. Joint venture construction projects in which the EMPLOY ER is a sponsor or  
managing partner shall be covered by this A greement.  
Article III Union Recognition  
The EMPLOYER hereby recognizes and acknowledges the UNION as the exclusive bargaining  
representative of all employees performing work covered by this Agreement with respect to wages,  
hours, and all other terms and conditions of employment. The work covered by this Agreement  
includes but is not limited to:  
(a) The loading and unloading of pile drilling machines, tools and accessories.  
(b) The assembly and disassembly of pile drilling machines, tools and accessories.  
(c) The maintenance and repair of pile drilling machines, tools and accessories.  
(d) The spotting, aligning and plumbing of pile drilling machines and tools.  
(e) The attaching and removing of pile drilling tools and accessories.  
(f) The hooking and unhooking of service lines or other hoisting facilities.  
(g) The handling, installing and removing of temporary or permanent casing or liners  
including bolting, welding or burning, installing and maintaining of cutting teeth or  
cutting edges, cleaning and other preparational activities.  
(h) The general clean up and housekeeping of the worksite, pile drilling machines, tools  
and accessories.  
Article IV Crew Size-Drilled Pile  
There shall be no defined crew size with respect to drilled pile operations. Drilled pile operations shall  
be manned in a safe and efficient manner consistent with all applicable state and federal regulations.  
The foregoing shall not apply to any type of driven pile. Driven pile shall be governed by Section V  
(NUMBER OF WORKERS IN CREWS) of the Pile Drivers Local 34 Master Labor A greement.  
Article V Geographic & Market C onditions  
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive position of the  
parties within the industry during the term of this Agreement. Consistent with the recognition,  
effective July 1, 2004, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the parties to the  
Agreement hereby establish a G & M Committee composed of three (3) representatives appointed by  
the Carpenters 46 Northern California Counties Conference Board and three (3) representatives  
appointed by the Associated General Contractors of California. The committee will review requests  
for changes in the terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement that may be necessary to preserve  
work opportunities for employees and individual employers covered by the Agreement. TheG & M  
Committee is authorized to approve such changes as it deems to be in the best interest of the parties to  
the Agreement. The parties to this Agreement will work together to preserve work opportunities for  
the Employers and Employees covered by this A greement.  
The Committee shall meet at least once per quarter and identify and discuss areas of concern to the  
parties involving issues including, but not limited to, non-signatory Employers, private work recovery,  
new technology, prevailing wages, etc.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 49  
ArticleVI Term of Agreement  
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from the 1st day of July, 2008, through the 30th  
day of June, 2012, and shall continue thereafter unless either party, not more than ninety (90) days or  
less than sixty (60) days prior to the 30th day of June, 2012, or not more than ninety (90) days nor less  
than sixty (60) days prior to the 30th day of June of any subsequent years, serves written notice on the  
other of its desire to change, modify, amend, supplement, renew, extend or terminate this A greement.  
The Union shall have the right to strike and the Employer shall have the right to lock out with respect  
to such contract opening of the Agreement June 30, 2012 only after ten (10) working days has passed  
in order to provide time for negotiations.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this to be executed by their duly  
authorized representatives the day and year here in above first written.  
### FOR THE EMPLOYER:  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
By  
Thomas T. Holsman, CEO  
   
### FOR THE UNION:  
### CARPENTERS 46 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COUNTIES CONFERENCE BOARD FOR AND  
### ON BEHALF OF THE REGIONAL COUNCIL AND ITS AFFILIATE PILE DRIVERS LOCAL  
### UNION #34  
By  
Robert H. Alvarado, Chairman  
   
By  
   
William Feyling, Executive Director  
### PILE DRIVERS LOCAL UNION #34  
By  
Pat Karinen, Senior Field Representative  
   
     
a  
### AGC SS  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 50  
    
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
Because of conditions sometimes imposed by owners or agencies, it is at times necessary for an  
Employer to subcontract with an entity that is not signatory to the Pile Drivers' Collective Bargaining  
Agreement.  
In the event that an Employer must subcontract to a MBE or WBE or specialty contractor and a  
Suitable signatory subcontractor is unavailable, the Union will give serious consideration, on a case by  
case basis, to waiving the requirement for signatory status under those limited circumstances provided  
that the Employer shall not use such waiver to contend that it would apply in any other circumstance.  
This understanding is entered into by the parties signed hereto on, 1994 and shall remain in effect until  
the expiration of the Master A greement.  
By  
   
DON HINMAN, Senior Business A gent  
### PILE DRIVERS UNION LOCAL #34, AFL-CIO  
By  
   
Thomas T. Holsman, CEO  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 51  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### GRIEVANCES  
(signed May 29, 1990)  
With respect to grievable incidents involving the acts or conduct of a subcontractor, the parties  
signatory to the Pile Drivers Collective Bargaining Agreement concur that if the subcontractor is  
signatory directly to the Agreement as an individual Employer, a separate grievance shall be filed  
against said subcontractor and said grievance shall be processed to its final conclusion through the  
procedures specified in Section IX of the Agreement prior to any grievance herein against the prime  
contractor.  
By  
DON HINMAN, Senior Business A gent  
### PILE DRIVERS UNION LOCAL #34  
   
By  
RICHARD B. MUNN, Executive Vice President  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
   
By  
### ALEX RODRIGUEZ  
### PILE DRIVING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION  
   
    
### AGC a  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 52  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS  
Whenever non-union or non-signatory contractors appear on public work projects where wage  
determinations exist, such pre-determined wage and fringe rate referenced in the bid specifications  
shall remain in effect for the duration of said project, provided, however, that each segment let by the  
Owner shall be deemed the project: provided, further that this provision shall not apply to projects  
where the formal advertised sealed bid procedure is not used. Increases in Trust Fund contributions  
shall not be subject to this provision, provided, further, that in no event shall wages be frozen for more  
than thirty-six (36) months on any one project.  
### FOR THE CONTRACTORS:  
By  
   
RICHARD B. MUNN, Executive Vice President  
### ASSOCIATION GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
By  
   
### ALEX RODIRUGEZ  
### PILE DRIVING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION  
### FOR THE UNION:  
By  
   
### MICHAEL MUNOZ, President  
### PILE DRIVERS UNION LOCAL #84  
By  
   
DON HINMAN, Business Representative  
### PILE DRIVERS UNION LOCAL #34  
By  
   
ED KELLY, Secretary-Treasurer  
### PILE DRIVERS UNION LOCAL #34  
     
Me  
Reg  
### AGC Sao  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 53  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### PAID SICK LEAVE  
The parties agree that to the fullest extent permitted, the AGC/Pile Drivers Master Labor A greement  
shall operate to waive any provisions of the San Francisco Paid Sick Leave Ordinance, San Francisco  
Administrative Code Section 12W, effective February 5, 2007, and shall supersede and be considered  
to have fulfilled all requirements of said Ordinance as presently written, and/or amended during the life  
of this A greement.  
In addition, this waiver shall apply to any other city, county or other local ordinance requiring  
mandatory paid sick leave that may be adopted during the term of this A greement.  
### FOR THE EMPLOYER:  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.  
By  
   
SEAN O’DONOGHUE, Director, Northern California Industrial Relations  
### FOR THE UNION:  
### CARPENTERS 46 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COUNTIES CONFERENCE BOARD FOR AND  
### ON BEHALF OF THE REGIONAL COUNCIL AND ITS AFFILIATE PILE DRIVERS LOCAL  
### UNION #34  
By  
   
Robert H. Alvarado, Chairman  
By  
   
William Feyling, Executive Director  
### PILE DRIVERS LOCAL UNION #34  
By  
   
Pat Karinen, Senior Field Representative  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 54  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### EXHIBIT A  
### SUBSISTENCE ZONE MAP  
### NEVADA  
  
  
### GE  
Cacyen  
ma Ah  
at  
  
aX  
_*  
  
### PLACE  
ee  
  
= A  
### J  
1  
wring Work Pen  
### EL DORADO  
PO \ on Poem  
=]  
tht.  
   
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 55  
### EXHIBIT “B”  
### JOINT LABOR /MANAGEMENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
### I. INTRODUCTION  
The Union and the Employer establish this Policy in order to provide the Individual Employers with a  
comprehensive substance abuse program, to provide Employees who abuse and/or are addicted to  
drugs, including alcohol, a means to receive treatment for their abuse and/or addiction, and to provide  
for a safe workplace. An Individual Employer is not obligated by this Agreement to have a substance  
abuse policy. Implementation of this Policy is not mandatory by any Individual Employer, but this  
Policy is the only Policy the Individual Employer may implement for Employees. Once implemented,  
the Policy shall remain in effect unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the Individual Employer.  
### II. NOTICE  
A. An Individual Employer must give written notice to the Union that it is  
implementing this Policy. The notice shall be delivered to the Union at the following  
address:  
Northern California Carpenters Regional Council  
265 Hegenberger Road, Suite 200  
Oakland, CA 94621  
Fax: 510-568-7916  
B. The Individual Employer may not implement this Policy unless it subjects all  
management and supervisory employees to the same type of testing provided herein.  
C. An Individual Employer who has implemented this policy shall advise the Union  
dispatchers with whom it places an order for Employees that it intends to drug test  
dispatched Employees. A test result shall not be set aside because an Individual  
Employer does not give such notice.  
D. An Individual Employer who implements this Policy shall provide written notice of  
this Policy to all Employees including those dispatched to it by the Union and shall  
provide each Employee with a copy of the Policy.  
F, Failure to give a form of notice of this section shall make any drug testing engaged  
in by the Individual Employer a violation of the applicable Master Agreement, and  
no results of any such test shall be relied upon to deny employment or pay or to  
discipline any Employee.  
### PURPOSE OF POLICY  
A. The Employer, Individual Employer(s) and the Union are committed to providing a  
Safe and productive work environment for Employees. The Employer, Individual  
Employer(s) and the Union recognize the valuable resource we have in our  
Employees and recognize that the state of an Employee's health affects attitude,  
    
ig  
effort, and job performance. The parties recognize that substance abuse is a AGC  
behavioral, medical and social problem that causes decreased efficiency and CALIFORNIA  
increased risk of accidents and injury. The Employer, Individual Employer(s) and ASSOCIATED  
the Union therefore adopt this Policy. The intent of the Policy is threefold: C ACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008 - 2022  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 56  
1. To maintain a safe, drug and alcohol free workplace;  
2. To maintain our workforce at its maximum effectiveness; and  
3. To encourage confidential referral to the Employee Assistance Program  
(EAP) by Employees Health and Welfare Program.  
B. In order to achieve these purposes, it is our primary goal to identify those Employees  
and refer them to professional counseling, and treatment before job performance has  
become a disciplinary problem. Employees are urged to use the services available  
through the union EA P Health and Welfare Plan  
1. Treatment for substance abuse and chemical dependency is provided under  
the Health and Welfare plan, up to the limits described in the plans.  
2. An Employee shall be granted necessary leave of absence for treatment.  
### IV. CONFIDENTIALITY  
The Individual Employer will abide by all applicable State and Federal laws and regulations regarding  
confidentiality of medical records in any matter related to this Policy. The Individual Employer shall  
designate one of its management, supervisory or confidential employees to be its custodian of records  
and contact person for all matters related to this Policy. All such records shall be kept in a locked file,  
which shall be labeled ‘Confidential’. Employee record, related to this Policy shall not be kept in the  
Employee's personnel file.  
All information from an Employee's drug and alcohol test is confidential for purposes other than  
determining whether this Policy has been violated. Disclosure of test results to any other person,  
agency or organization is prohibited unless written authorization is obtained from the Employee. The  
results of a positive drug test shall not be released until the results are confirmed. Every effort will be  
made to ensure that all employee issues relating to this policy will be discussed in private and actions  
taken will not be made known to anyone other than those directly involved in taking the action, or who  
are required to be involved in the disciplinary procedure.  
### V. TESTING  
Testing for the presence of alcohol or controlled substances and/or their by-products in one's body may  
only be performed under the conditions set forth herein. All testing shall be done in accordance with  
the standards established by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration  
(‘SAMHSA’), any successor agency, or any other agency of the federal government which has  
responsibility for establishing standards for drug testing. All such agencies shall be collectively  
referred to as 'SAMHSA”.  
Chain of Custody: All SAMHSA standards for Chain of Custody will be adhered to. A specimen for  
which the SAMHSA standards are not complied with shall not be considered for any purpose under  
     
this Policy.  
Laboratories: All laboratories, which perform tests under this Policy, shall be SAMHSA certified.  
ex xy)  
nal aaa A Testing Procedures and Protocols: All SAMHSA standards for testing standards and protocols shall  
be followed. All specimens, which are determined to be positive by the SAMHSA approved screening  
ASSOUATED test, shall be subject to a SAMHSA certified confirmatory test (gas chromatography/mass  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
spectrometry). This Agreement shall include the Varian Oral Screen or any of its equivalents, as  
approved by the G & M Committee.  
Second Test: The laboratory shall save a sufficient portion of each specimen in a manner approved by  
SAMHSA so that an Employee may have a second test performed. Immediately after the specimen is  
collected, it will be labeled and then initialed by the Employee and a witness. If the sample must be  
collected at a site other than the drug and/or alcohol testing laboratory, the specimen shall then be  
placed in a transportation container. The container shall be sealed in the Employee's presence and the  
Employee shall be asked to initial or sign the container. The container shall be sent to the designated  
testing laboratory on that day or the earliest business day by the fastest available method. Any  
Employee whose specimen is tested positive and who challenges a test result may have the second  
portion of the sample tested at his/her expense and at a laboratory agreed upon by the Employee and  
the MRO so long as that laboratory is SAMHSA certified. If the second test is negative, the Employee  
will be considered to have been tested negative.  
Cut-Off Level: SAMHSA standards for cut-off levels will be complied with when applicable. The  
cut-off levels for both the screening test and the confirmatory test shall be per the Federal Standards as  
determined by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). Only tests, which are positive  
pursuant to the SAMHSA standards, shall be reported to the Medical Review Officer as positive. A  
.04 blood/alcohol or above shall be considered to be positive.  
Medical Review Officer: A Medical Review Officer (MRO) shall verify all positive test results. The  
MRO must be a licensed physician. The MRO shall be a member of the American Society of  
Addictive Medicine (ASAM), if available. If no ASAM members are available, the MRO shall be  
certified by the Medical Review Officer's Certification Council. The Union shall approve all MROs.  
Upon verification of a positive test result, the MRO shall refer the affected Employee to EAP for  
assessment and referral to treatment, if appropriate.  
Consent Form: Any Employee directed to submit to a test in accordance with this Policy will sign a  
consent and release form, a copy of which is attached hereto, (Form ‘A'). The consent and release  
form will only authorize: (1) the facility where the specimen is collected to collect the specimen; (2)  
the laboratory which performs the test to perform the test and to provide the results to the MRO and, if  
negative, to the Individual Employer; and, (3) the MRO to verify tests and report to the Individual  
Employer whether the test is positive or negative. The consent and release form shall notify the  
Employee that he/she may have a Union representative present, if available.  
The Employee may be disciplined if he/she refused to sign the authorization if the Individual Employer  
has advised the Employee: (1) he/she must sign it or he/she will be disciplined up to and including  
termination; (2) the release is limited as provided herein; and (3) the Employee has a right to consult  
with a Union representative before signing the release and before submitting to the test. An Employee  
who believes the Individual Employer is improperly directing him/her to submit to a test may file a  
grievance under the Pile Drivers Master Agreement. The test results will be disregarded if the Board  
of Adjustment or Arbitrator determines the Individual Employer was not authorized by this Policy to  
direct the Employee to submit to the test.  
Substances to be Tested For: A specimen may be tested for alcohol, Cannabinoids (THC),  
barbiturates, opiates, cocaine, phencyclidines (PCP), amphetamines and methaqualone or the by-  
products of these substances. A specimen shall not be tested for anything else. If DOT revises its list  
of substances for which it requires employers to test, this Section shall be revised to include those  
substances. The laboratory will report positive test results to the MRO. The MRO will verify whether  
the test is positive or negative. The MRO shall report to the Individual Employer whether the  
Employee tested positive or negative for one of these substances. The MRO will not identify the  
substance(s) for which the Employee tested positive.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 5/  
    
### AGC Zi  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 58  
    
### AGC  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
Urine Test or Breath Test: The Individual Employer may direct the Employee to submit to a urine  
test for alcohol and/or other drugs, or a breath test for alcohol.  
Notification to Employer of Test Results: The laboratory shall report negative test results to the  
Individual Employer. The laboratory will report positive test results to the MRO. The MRO will  
verify whether the test was positive or negative and will report the final results to the Individual  
Employer.  
### VI.  
A.  
### TY PES OF PERMISSIVE TESTING  
### TIME OF DISPATCH TESTING  
An Individual Employer may require an Employee to be tested for the presence in the  
Employee's body of one of the drugs or by-products thereof set forth above at the time the  
Employee is dispatched (on one (1) of the first three (3) day(s) of employment). It must test  
all Employees at the time they are dispatched if it tests any Employee. The Individual  
Employer shall put the Employee to work or pay the Employee pending the test results unless  
the Employer has probable cause to believe the Employee is impaired, intoxicated, or under  
the influence of a drug. The standards for probable cause are set forth below in Section B. If  
the Individual Employer does not allow an Employee to work pending the test results because  
it believes it has probable cause, it shall make the Employee whole for all lost wages and  
benefits if the Employee tests negative. The Individual Employer shall not be obligated to  
employ any such Employee after EAP releases the Employee to return to work but may  
employ such an Employee under the terms of a return-to-work agreement. An Employee who  
refuses to submit to a drug/alcohol test when dispatched shall not be paid show-up time.  
An Individual Employer may test Employees who are recalled from layoff as provided for in  
the Job Placement Regulations who have not worked for sixty (60) days. If the Individual  
Employer tests any Employee who is recalled, it must test all such Employees. An Individual  
Employer may test all Employees at the time they are dispatched under this Section without  
testing those who are recalled.  
### PROBABLE CAUSE TESTING  
An Individual Employer may require an employee to submit to a test as provide for in this  
Policy if it has probable cause that the Employee is impaired, intoxicated and/or under the  
influence of a drug. Probable cause must be based on a trained management representative's  
(preferably not in the bargaining unit) objective observations and must be based upon  
abnormal coordination, appearance, behavior, speech or odor. The indicators shall be  
recognized and accepted symptoms of intoxication or impairment caused by drugs or alcohol  
and shall be indicators not reasonably explained as resulting from causes other than the use of  
such controlled substance and/or alcohol (such as, but not by way of limitation, fatigue, lack  
of sleep, side effects of proper use of prescription drugs, reaction to noxious fumes or smoke,  
etc.). Probable cause may not be established, and thus not a basis for testing, if it is based  
solely on the observations and reports of third parties. The trained management  
representatives observations and conclusions must be confirmed by another trained  
management representative. The grounds for probable cause must be documented by the use  
of an Incident Report Form (see Form 'B' attached). The Management Representative shall  
give the Employee a completed copy of this Incident Report Form and shall give the Union  
Representative, if present, a copy of the Incident Form. The Employee shall be allowed  
enough time to read the entire document and to understand the reasons for the test.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 59  
The Management Representative also shall provide the Employee with an opportunity to give  
an explanation of his/her condition, such as reaction to a prescribed drug, fatigue, lack of  
sleep, exposure to noxious fumes, reaction to over-the-counter medication or illness, if  
available, the Union Representative shall be present during such explanation and shall be  
entitled to confer with the Employee before the explanation is required. If the Management  
Representative(s), after observing the Employee, and hearing any explanation, concludes that  
there is in fact probable cause to believe that the Employee is under the influence of, or  
impaired by, drugs or alcohol, the Employee may be ordered to submit to a drug test.  
The Individual Employer shall advise the Employee of their right to consult with a union  
representative, including a Steward, and allow the Employee to consult with a Union  
representative before the Employee submits to the test, if the Union representative is  
available. Employees required to submit to a test under Section B will be paid for all time  
related to the test including the time the Employee is transported to and from the collection  
site, all time spent at the collection site, and all time involved completing the consent and  
release form if the test results are negative.  
### C, ACCIDENT TESTING  
An Individual Employer may require Employees who are directly involved in work related  
accidents involving property damage or bodily injury that requires medical care to a test as  
provided herein. The innocent victims of an accident will not be subject to a test unless  
probable cause exists, The Individual Employer shall complete an Incident Report Form (see  
Form B attached) whenever it tests an Employee under this section.  
### VII. EMPLOYER REFERRALS  
A decline in an Employee's job performance is often the first sign of a personal problem, which may  
include a substance abuse or chemical dependency. Supervisory personnel will be trained to identify  
signs of substance abuse, chemical dependency and declining job performance. The individual  
Employer may formally refer an Employee to EAP based upon documented declining job performance  
or other observations prior to testing under Paragraph VI and/or disciplining the Employee.  
### VIII. EMPLOYEE VOLUNTARY SELF-HELP PROGRAM  
An Employee who has a chemical dependency and/or abuses drugs and/or alcohol is encouraged to  
participate in an Employee Voluntary Self-Help Program. Any such Employee shall be referred to  
EAP Employees who seek voluntary assistance for alcohol and/or substance abuse may not be  
disciplined for seeking such assistance. Request by Employees for such assistance shall remain  
confidential and shall not be revealed to other Employees or management personnel without the  
Employee's consent. EAP shall not disclose information on drug/alcohol use received from an  
Employee for any purpose or under any circumstances, unless specifically authorized in writing by the  
Employee.  
The Individual Employer shall offer an Employee affected by alcohol or drug dependence an unpaid  
medical Leave of Absence for the purpose of enrolling and participating in a drug or alcohol  
rehabilitation program.  
     
### TNO  
Recs  
### IX. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES/DISCIPLINE  
### AGC Bd  
An Employee shall not possess, use, provide, dispense, receive, sell, offer to sell or manufacture CALIFORNIA  
alcohol and/or any controlled substances as defined by law or have any measurable amount of any such ASSOCIATED  
substance or by-product thereof as defined in Section V while on the Individual Employer's property or C  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 60  
    
### AGC 7  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
jobsite. An Employee shall not work while impaired, intoxicated or under the influence of alcohol  
and/or any controlled substance. An Employee who uses medication prescribed by a physician will not  
violate these rules by using such medication as prescribed if the Employee's physician has released the  
Employee to work. An Employee who uses over-the-counter medication in accordance with the  
manufacturer's and/or doctor's recommendation shall not violate the rules by using such medication.  
The Individual Employer may prohibit an Employee who is impaired as a result of proper use of  
prescription or over-the-counter drugs from working while Employee is impaired but may not  
discipline such Employee. An Employee who is impaired by misuse of prescription or over-the-  
counter medication violates the Policy and is subject to discipline as provided herein.  
### X. REHABILITATION/DISCIPLINE  
The Individual Employer may discipline an Employee who violates any provision of Section IX. Such  
Employee is subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination. Among the factors to be  
considered in determining the appropriate disciplinary response are the nature and requirements of the  
Employee's work, length of employment, current job performance, the specific results of the test and  
the history of past discipline.  
The Individual Employer is not required to refer to EAP any Employee who violates any provision of  
Paragraph IX which prohibits possessing, using, providing, dispensing, receiving, selling, attempting  
to sell or manufacturing prohibited substances before it disciplines the Employee. The Individual  
Employer may not discipline any Employee who violates any other provisions of Paragraph IX until  
such Employee has been offered an opportunity to receive treatment and/or counseling.  
The Employee will not be discharged if he/she agrees in writing to undergo the counseling/treatment  
EAP prescribes. The Individual Employer shall re-eemploy the Employee when EAP releases the  
Employee to retum to work if it has work available. It will not be required to lay-off any current  
Employee in order to re-employ the Employee. If it does not have any available when EAP releases  
him/her, it shall re-employ him/her as soon as it has work available. The Employee will be subject to a  
return-to-work agreement. The Individual Employer, the Union and the Employee will enter into a  
return-to-work agreement. The return-to-work agreement will require the Employee to comply with  
and complete all treatment EAP, or the treatment provider, as the case may be, determines is  
appropriate. It will also provide a monitoring of the Employee's compliance with the treatment plan  
EAP, or the treatment provider, develops and will allow the Individual Employer to require the  
Employee to submit to unannounced testing. The Individual Employer may discipline the Employee  
for not complying with the return-to-work agreement. A positive test on an unannounced test will be  
considered a violation of the return-to-work agreement. Any unannounced testing shall be performed  
in accordance with this Policy. The Union and the Individual Employer will attempt to meet with any  
Employee who violates the return-to-work agreement and attempt to persuade the Employee to comply  
with the return-to-work agreement.  
Employees who are working under a return-to-work agreement shall be subject to all of the Individual  
Employer's rules to the same extent as all other Employees are required to comply with them.  
### XI. NON DISCRIMINATION  
The Individual Employer shall not discriminate against any Employee who is receiving treatment for  
substance abuse and/or chemical dependency. All Employees who participate in EAP and/or are  
undergoing or have undergone treatment and rehabilitation pursuant to this Policy shall be subject to  
the same rules, working conditions and discipline procedures in effect for all Employees. Employees  
cannot escape discipline for future infractions by participating in EAP and/or undergoing treatment and  
rehabilitation.  
### XII. COST OF PROGRAM  
Evaluation and treatment for substance abuse and chemical addiction are provided for through the  
Health and Welfare Plan. An Individual Employer who adopts this Policy will not incur any additional  
cost for assessment, referral and treatment beyond that which is incorporated into its health and welfare  
contribution rate. EAP is funded through the Health and Welfare Trust to provide its current level of  
service which includes performing assessments of Employees and their covered dependents, referral of  
Employees and covered dependents to treatment, monitoring of Employees and covered dependents  
who are undergoing rehabilitation and providing limited education and training programs to Individual  
Employers. The Individual Employer will pay all costs for testing.  
### XIII. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
All disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Policy shall be subject to the grievance  
and arbitration procedures of the Pile Drivers Master Labor A greement.  
### XIV. SAVINGS CLAUSE  
The establishment or operation of this Policy shall not curtail any right of any Employee found in any  
law, rule or regulation. Should any part of this Policy be determined contrary to law, such invalidation  
of that part or portion of this Policy shall not invalidate the remaining portions. In the event of such  
determination, the collective bargaining parties will immediately bargain in good faith in an attempt to  
agree upon a provision in place of the invalidated portion.  
### XV. INDEMNITY LANGUAGE  
Employer shall indemnify and hold the Union harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or  
liabilities that may arise out of the individual Employers application or enforcement of this policy.  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 61  
    
AGC Fi vo,  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 62  
### FORM “A”  
### NCCRC/PILE DRIVER  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
### CONSENT AND RELEASE FORM  
### MEDICAL RELEASE INFORMATION  
1. I, , hereby authorize the release of the following  
medical records in the possession of  
la. The medical Information gathered as a result of my urine screen and drug/alcohol  
test and information relating to the reports from the laboratory. This medical  
information may be released only to authorized representative of  
1b. The medical information gathered as a result of my urine screen and drug/alcohol  
test and information relating to the reports from the laboratory. This medical  
information may be released only to authorized medical review officer  
2. I understand that this information will be used by  
only for decisions concerning my employment.  
3. The authorization shall remain valid for six months for the date of this Release of Medical  
Information form, or through completion of any arbitration, conceming the actions over  
which this Release is executed, whichever is longer.  
A. I have read this form in its entirety, understand its provisions, and am signing it voluntarily. I  
understand that my employer cannot discriminate in the terms and conditions of my  
employment if I choose not to sign this authorization. <California Civil Code 56.20 (b)>.  
5. I understand that I have the night to receive a copy of this authorization.  
aboratory must be approved by Union and must be S.A.M.H.S.A. Certified.  
(Dated) (Signed)  
     
### INO  
Res  
### AGC 2 A EY,  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### FORM “B”  
### NCCRC/PILE DRIVER  
### SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
### INCIDENT REPORT FORM  
Employee Involved  
Date of Incident  
Time of Incident  
Location of Incident  
Employee's J ob Position Assignment  
Has Employee been notified of his/her right to Union representation?  
Time Employee's Initials Employee's Initials  
Witness to Incident  
What was observed  
What is Employee's explanation  
Action recommended  
Signature Signature  
(Employer Representative) (Union Representative)  
Title Title  
Date/Time/A ction taken  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 63  
   
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 64  
     
### 7 INO  
  
### AGC O77  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
### HUTCHESON LETTERS  
Carpenters' Bldg.  
222 E. Michigan Ave., Indianapolis, Indiana  
M.A. Hutcheson, General President  
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of A merica  
May 13, 1955  
Mr. O.J. Lindell, R.S.,  
Local Union No. 34,  
457 Bryant Street  
San Francisco, California  
Dear Sir and Brother:  
I am herewith submitting the findings of the General Executive on the controversy between carpenters  
and pile drivers classifications in the West Coast area.  
The subcommittee convened Wednesday, July 15, 1954, and Thursday, July 16, 1954, in the Empire  
Room of the Sir Frances Drake Hotel, San Francisco, California. Testimony was received from forty-  
seven (47) witnesses representing Local Unions, District Councils and State Councils from the States  
of California, Oregon and Washington.  
As indicated in the matter supplied to the subcommittee, from the General Office, we found that the  
main points of difference existing between the branches of our membership on the West Coast were:  
(1) An interpretation of what constitutes the “girder capping the piles.”  
(2) What classification of our membership shall apply in the placing and erection of  
false work.  
Additional clarification of what work properly comes under the classification of Pile Driver would help  
in clarifying the issues involved between both branches of our Brotherhood on the west coast:  
(1) In the construction of waterfront and marine facilities, such as docks, piers, wharves,  
bulk heads, jetties, and similar structures, the Pile Driver classification should  
continue to apply, up to and including the decking thereof.  
(2) On all pile driving and caisson work on both land and water, Pile Driver  
classifications should apply.  
(3) In the construction of wooden bridges whether over land or over water, when  
composed of heavy timber, the Pile Driver classification should apply.  
(4) In the construction of concrete or steel bridges over land, the Pile Driver  
classification shall apply to the driving of the piles and/or caisson work including the  
forms required for the capping of the piles or caisson. The “capping of the piles” is  
herein interpreted as being that concrete, wood or other material resting on top of the  
piles, where driving or placed and does not include any further form work above the  
capping. In many instances, it has been found that the capping is called “the girder.”  
The above shall apply on such concrete or steel bridges constructed over land,  
highways, railroads, overpasses, and include cloverleafs, interchanges, etc.  
In the construction of concrete or steel bridges over water, the Pile Driver  
classification shall apply up to and including all of the form work to the top of the  
column, piers, or abutments supporting the steel and/or any other superstructure.  
In the erection of false-work, when necessary for the support of work under the Pile  
Driver classification, then such false work shall fall within their classification. False  
work necessary for the support of work under the Carpenter classification, with the  
exception that where pile driving or power equipment is used for heavy timber false  
work, then such work shall come under the Pile Driver classification. This would  
include all rigging, signaling, and tagging incidental to the placing of the heavy  
timber.  
In the construction of open-cut sewers, the Pile Driver Classification shall apply on  
all piling including wood, steel or concrete sheet piling, all bracing timber and form  
work incidental to the construction thereof.  
In concluding this report the General Executive Board believes that the defining of  
the words “girder capping the piles” herein outlined will tend to solve much of the  
misunderstanding that has existed between the two classifications of our membership  
on the West Coast. All of the above shall be effective only in the West Coast where  
the controversy occurred.  
Fraternally yours,  
Signed M.A. Hutcheson  
General President  
The Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.,  
Northern California Chapter Central California Chapter  
Central California Chapter  
Pile Driving Contractors A ssociation  
July 17, 1955  
Mr. M.A. Hutcheson, General President  
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of A merica Carpenters Building,  
222 East Michigan Street Indianapolis, Indiana  
Dear Mr. Hutcheson:  
The Northern California Chapter and the Central California Chapter of the Associated General  
Contractors of America, Inc. and the Pile Driving Contractors Association are parties to the Pile  
Driving Agreement with Local No. 34 of the Pile Drivers, Bridge, Wharf and Dock Builders Union  
covering the 46 Counties of Northern California. The A.G.C. Chapters are also parties to two Master  
Agreements covering Carpenters in the same geographic area. In order to perpetuate the fine  
relationships which have been built up over the years between our organizations, representing the  
contractors and the Pile Driver and Carpenter organizations in Northern California, it is strongly felt  
that there is a definite need for clarification of your letter of May 9, 1955, containing the findings of  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 65  
    
### AGC Fi  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 66  
     
### 7 INO  
  
### AGC O77  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
the General Executive Board of the United Brotherhood concerning the controversy between the  
Carpenters and Pile Drivers' classifications on the West Coast.  
Specifically, clarification is desired on the following five points covered in the above-mentioned letter:  
1, What did you intend to constitute a “bridge over water” within the meaning of  
paragraph five (5) of your letter dated May 9, 1955?  
(a)  
(e)  
For example, near Petaluma, California, two parallel concrete highway  
structures were constructed under a single contract over U.S. Highway 101,  
the railroad tracks of the Northwestern Pacific Railroad and Petaluma  
Creek. The overall length of the structures were erected in three sections.  
The first section, which was approximately 360 feet long, was constructed  
over the highway and the railroad tracks and terminated at a coffer-dam and  
piers at the south bank of the creek. The second section, which was  
approximately 415 feet long, extended from a highway fill across  
agriculture land to a coffer-dam and piers at the north bank of the creek.  
The third section, which was approximately 115 feet long, consisted of 16  
pre-cast 75-ton concrete girders extending over Petaluma Creek which were  
put in place by a floating derrick.  
Would you have intended that the 115-foot section spanning the creek,  
which constitutes less than 1/8 of the entire structure, would make the entire  
structure a “bridge over water?”  
Or would the term “bridge over water” be limited to the section which  
actually spanned the creek?  
For another example, near King City, California, a concrete structure is  
being constructed across the Salinas River. During the dry season, which  
will cover the entire construction period, the river bed is crossed by a road  
which carries heavy truck traffic.  
Would you intend this structure to be a “bridge over water?”  
Did you intend the term “bridge over water” to include a structure being  
constructed over a dry bypass which is designed to carry water only during  
flood conditions, which occur only once in several years?  
Did you intend a structure over a ravine or other depression which carries  
water, if at all, only during the spring run off and outside of the construction  
period?  
Did you intend the term “bridge over water” to include a structure over a  
man-made canal or aqueduct?  
2. Under paragraph six (6) of your letter dated May 9, 1955, did you intend the  
falsework necessary for the support of the deck of a concrete or steel bridge over  
water to carry the Carpenter classification, except where pile driving or power  
equipment is used for heavy timber falsework?  
3. Did you intend the term “pile driving or power equipment,” as used in paragraph six  
(6) of your letter, to mean pile driver, derrick or similar power equipment, which is  
the terminology that has been used in our Pile Driving for many years?  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 6/7  
A, Do forms constructed on the ground out of 2” x 4” and 2” x 6” lumber and 5/8”  
plywood constitute “heavy timber falsework,” within the meaning of paragraph six  
(6) of your letter, merely for the reason that, when assembled, they must be put into  
place by power equipment?  
5. Does paragraph seven (7) of your letter refer only to work within the recognized  
jurisdiction of the Pile Drivers Union?  
The foregoing examples and questions are typical of the problems which arise in  
applying your letter of May 9, 1955, to construction projects in this area. Projects  
very similar to those given as examples under question 1 above are soon to be  
advertised for bids. As you are aware, it is important to the contractors that they  
clearly understand your letter, since if there is any misunderstanding, as to particular  
work, those contractors who interpret your letter as placing the work under the Pile  
Driver classification will lose out in bidding for such work, while the contractor who  
obtains the work upon the assumption that it comes under the Carpenter  
classification will suffer serious loss if he has to perform the work under the Pile  
Driver classification. You are the only one who can settle these problems, since on  
matters of this sort our Pile Driving Agreement provides that the parties will  
recognize formal rulings of the International President of the United Brotherhood.  
Y ours very truly,  
/s/ Frank W. Callahan, Manager  
Northern California Chapter, AGC  
/s/ Bruce McKenzie, Manager  
Central California Chapter, AGC  
/s/ John Marthens, Secretary  
Pile Driving Contractors A ssociation  
Mr. M.A. Hutcheson, Chairman  
General Executive Board  
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America  
222 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Indiana  
### CLARIFICATION OF REPORT OF SUB-COMMITTEE OF GENERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD ON  
### CARPENTER-PILE DRIVER MATTER ON WEST COAST  
November 11, 1955  
Dear Sir and Brother:  
At your request the sub-committee, consisting of Board Members Rajoppi, Chandler, and Johnson,  
considered the requests of the Northern and Central Chapter of the Association General Contractors of  
America, Inc., dated July 17, 1955, for clarification of certain portions of the findings of the General  
Executive Board on the controversy between Carpenters and Pile Drivers in the West Coast area as  
     
### TNO  
Recs  
is)  
contained in your communication dated May 13, 1955, and forwarded to all Local Unions, District and AGC  
State Councils in the States of Califormia, Oregon and Washington. CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 68  
    
AGC i 7  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
The sub-committee has drawn up clarifications to the five questions contained in the contractors’  
request. Some of these questions have various sub-divisions and the clarifications will follow each  
question or subdivision.  
Question 1(a) of the Association General Contractors refers to paragraph (5) of the findings of the  
General Executive Board of May 13, 1955.  
Clarification: On “bridge over the water” the columns or abutments in water and at the water's edge, or  
the first column or abutment on land adjacent to water's edge, shall come under the Pile Driver  
classification.  
Question 1(b) refers to rivers that are dry in season.  
Clarification: Still considered a “bridge over water” and covered by clarification of paragraph (5) in  
answer to question 1(a).  
Question 1(c) refers to “bridge over water” being constructed over a dry by-pass designed to carry  
floor waters.  
Clarification: The answer is Yes. Similar to clarification of question 1(b) and is considered a “bridge  
over water.”  
Question 1(d) refers to structures over ravines or depressions which carry water during spring runoff.  
Clarification: The answer is Y es. Same as answer to question 1(b) and is considered as a “bridge over  
water” and as qualified in clarification of question 1(a).  
Question 1(e) refers to “bridge over water” and also man-made canal or aqueduct.  
Clarification: Same answer as in 1(a), 1(b), 1(c), and 1(d).  
All clarifications of paragraph 5 of findings of the General Executive Board of May 13, 1955, and  
referring to “concrete or steel bridges over water” is based upon piles being driven, caissons sunk or  
cofferdams erected by Pile Drivers under Pile Driver classification on such concrete or steel bridge  
foundations.  
Question 2 refers to Paragraph (6) of the findings of the General Executive Board.  
Clarification: The answer is Y es. Falsework necessary for the support of the decking of a concrete or  
steel bridge over water shall come under the Carpenters classification. Falsework for such decking is  
under the Carpenter classification excepting where pile driving or power equipment is used.  
Question 3 refers to pile driving or power equipment.  
Clarification: The sub-committee feels that the words “pile driving or power equipment” are in  
themselves completely explanatory and feels no further definition is required for anyone acquainted  
with the construction industry.  
Question 4 refers to forms constructed on the ground out of 2 x 4 and 2 x 6 lumber and 5/8 plywood.  
Clarification: The sub-committee does not interpret “forms” to be “heavy timber falsework” within the  
meaning of paragraph (6). If any dimension forms are fabricated on the ground for work coming under  
the Carpenters classification, then such forms can be put in place by power equipment under the  
Carpenter classification. Forms coming under the Pile Driver classification as outlined in the findings  
of the General Executive Board shall be installed or placed under such Pile Driver classification. If  
heavy timber falsework, consisting of support for forms, installed under Carpenter classification and  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page 69  
pile driving or power equipment is used, then such installation of “heavy timber falsework” shall be  
done under the Pile Driver classification as plainly stated in paragraph (6) of the General Executive  
Board's findings.  
Question 5 refers to paragraph (7) of the General Executive Board's findings and refers to the  
construction of opencut sewers.  
Clarification: The sub-committee of the General Executive Board feels that paragraph (7) is so plainly  
worded without any limitations that anybody familiar with the construction industry can clearly  
understand this paragraph without any interpretations being required.  
The above clarifications requested by the Associated General Contractors’ organizations in the West  
Coast area are recommended to the General Executive Board by the sub-committee, who feels that  
many of these requests could be settled by discussions between the contractors and our membership  
affected in the West Coast area. It would be impossible to answer the myriad of questions that may be  
asked for interpretation of any finding, contract, or agreement and your sub-committee feels that the  
industry as a whole in the West Coast area should make a genuine effort to work out equitable  
solutions of further questions that may arise on the findings of the General Executive Board in this  
subject matter, as contained in the letter addressed to all Local Unions, District and State Councils in  
the States of California, Oregon and Washington and signed by you as General President under date of  
May 13, 1955.  
Respectfully submitted,  
/s/ Charles Johnson, Jr., Chairman  
/s/ Raleigh Rajoppi  
/s/ Henry W. Chandler  
M.A. Hutcheson, Chairman  
General Executive Board  
United Brotherhood of Carpenters  
and Joiners of America  
101 Constitution Avenue, N.W.  
Washington, D.C. 2001  
Re: Carpenter-Pile Driver matter in West C oast area  
December 12, 1967  
Dear Sir and Brother:  
In complying with your request, the Sub-Committee of the General Executive Board, appointed by you  
to review the 1955 General Executive Board Decision on West Coast Carpenter-Pile Driver matter,  
have met several times to consider the new problems that have arisen since the 1955 Board Decision.  
Y our Sub-Committee held two days of hearings at the Del Webb Town House in San Francisco,  
California, on March 21 and March 22, 1967, at which sixty-three Officers and Business  
Representatives of our subordinate Locals and District and State Councils testified on the subject  
matter. In addition, twelve representatives of various Contractors Associations met with your Sub-  
Committee and presented their points of view on several issues relative to new methods and techniques  
     
### TNO  
Recs  
is)  
developed in the years since the original 1955 decision. The transcript of the hearings consisted of AGC “ois  
several hundred pages and the General Office is in possession of a copy of same. CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
2008-20  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page /0  
     
Me  
Reg  
### AGC Sao  
### CALIFORNIA  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA  
The hearings brought out that the principal items of work where there were different opinions and  
interpretations amongst our membership, and also between the employers and our membership, mainly  
consisted of the following:  
(A) Dry Aqueduct or canal structures  
(B) Building Foundations  
(C) Tank Foundations  
(D) Base foundations for Machinery, Equipment and Stanchions  
(E) The erection of falsework, including metal tubular or “tinker toy” material used in  
falsework.  
Y our Committee, after careful review of the transcript of the March 21 and March 22, 1967, hearings,  
finds it necessary to further clarify intentions of the General Executive Board decision on May, 1955,  
and to modify where necessary consistent with the evidence presented to the Subcommittee at this  
March, 1967, hearing, in order to guide our West Coast membership in their jurisdictional differences  
on work issues and to assist our Employers in the correct and harmonious operations of their projects.  
The work jurisdiction of our Carpenters and Pile Driving branches of our Brotherhood on the West  
Coast shall be as follows:  
A. (1)  
In the construction of waterfront and marine facilities, such as docks, piers, wharves,  
bulkheads, jetties and similar structures, the Pile Driver classification shall continue to apply,  
up to and including the decking thereof.  
On all pile driving and caisson work, on both land and water, the Pile Driver classification  
shall apply.  
In the construction of heavy timber, wooden bridges, whether over land or over water, the Pile  
Driver classification shall apply.  
In the construction of concrete or steel bridges over land, highways, railroads, overpasses,  
cloverleafs, interchanges, or bridges over man-made canals, aqueducts, spillways and man-  
made water retaining areas, the Pile Driver classification shall apply to the driving of piles,  
caissons and “drilled-inplace” piling. The fabrication and erection of the forms for capping of  
piles, caissons or “drilled-in-place” piling shall come under the Pile Driver classification.  
This shall include the placing of wooden or steel capping or any substitute thereof.  
Any other form work above the cap, pertaining to the construction operations herein noted  
above, shall be performed under the carpenters classifications. This shall also include bridges  
over man-made canals, aqueducts, spillways and man-made water retaining areas, if  
constructed prior to water being released or turned into the area.  
In the construction of concrete or steel bridges over water, the fabrication and erection of the  
form work for the pier or piers in the water area, and the pier or abutment on land, nearest to  
the water's edge, shall be under the Pile Driver classification. This shall include the  
fabrication and erection of the form work to the top of the pier, column and abutment  
supporting the steel and/or any other super structure.  
The fabrication and erection of forms for the piers, columns or abutments for the approaches  
to the first pier or abutment on water's edge, shall be under the Carpenters classification. This  
2008 - 2012  
Pile Drivers  
Agreement  
Page /1  
also on a bridge over an area where the flow of water has been temporarily  
iverted.  
Building Foundations  
All form work required on building foundations shall be under the Carpenters classification,  
irrespective of the use of piles or caissons.  
Capping of piles or form work on Tank Foundations  
The capping of piles and form work in connection therewith, where there is no other carpenter  
form work involved above the capping or floor base of tank, shall be under the Pile Driver  
classification. Where further carpenter work is required above the capping or tank base, then  
the Carpenter classification shall apply on entire operation, including the forms for pile  
capping and/or tank base.  
Base Foundations for Machinery, Equipment and Stanchions  
The fabrication and erection of all forms of machinery, bases, equipment or stanchions shall  
be under the Carpenters classification.  
    
### AGC  
### CALI  
### ASSOCIATED  
### GENERAL  
### CONTRACTORS  
### OF CALIFORNIA