1.1. 1  
1.2. Purpose Of 1  
1.3. Affected 1  
1.4. Territory Of 2  
1.5. Effective Date and 2  
### 1.6. SAVINGS CLAUSE 3  
### 2. UNION SECURITY 3  
2.1. Union Recognition and Hiring 3  
2.2. 3  
2.3. Union Representative A  
2.4, Union Dues Deduction Program A  
2.9. DRIVE Contributions 4A  
### 3. MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 4  
### 3.1, CUStOMALY FUNCTIONS 4A  
3.2. Special 5  
### A, SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 5  
4.1. 5  
4.2. Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes 6  
4.3. Strikes and Picket Lines 6  
### D. HOURS OF WORK 6  
5.1. Single Shift 6  
5.2. Multiple Shift 7  
### 9.3. OVETUIME 8  
5.4. Reporting and Minimum Hours 8  
### 6. EMPLOY MENT POLICIES 9  
6.1. Safety 9  
6.2. Special Safety 9  
### 6.3. LUMCH PYOVISIONS 10  
6.4. ReSt Periods 10  
6.5. Pay Day 10  
6.6. Substance Abuse Policy 11  
6.7. Light Duty Return to 11  
6.8. Apprenticeship & Training Provision 11  
6.9. 12  
6.10. 12  
### 7. EMPLOY EE 13  
7.1. 13  
7.2. Health & S@CUIItY 13  
7.3. POMSION 14  
### 8. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ccc 14  
8.1. Northwest Fair Contracting Industry Improvement 14  
8.2. Pre-Determined Wage Rate Projects 15  
8.3. Craft WOrk 15  
8.4, 15  
8.5. Pre-Job Conference - Employer Change in Territory 15  
### 8.6. OWNET-OPELAtOTS 16  
### 9, APPENDIX 1 - SCHEDULE "A" - CLASSIFICATIONS, WAGE AND BENEFIT 17  
9.1, SCale Of WAGES 17  
9,2. Fringe Payments Schedule 17  
9.3. Health and Welfare Plans 17  
9.4, 2008-2009 Wage and Benefit INCreases 18  
9.5, Fringe 18  
9.6. Equipment Classifications 18  
9.7, Hazmat Projects 19  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON i  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
9.8. Miscellaneous Pay ISSUES 20  
9.9, Schedule "B" - Zone Pay Differential 20  
### 9.10. © CAMP PYOVISION 21  
QTL. 1 ee Zi  
9.12. Public Transportation 21  
9.13. Travel Expense Reimbursement 22  
### 10. APPENDIX 2- HIRING AND UNION 23  
10.1.  Gemeral Hiring Hall ee 23  
10.2 Local Union Hiring 23  
10.3. Group 24  
10.4. = Special 24  
10.5. Dispatch Requirement 25  
10.6. cc 25  
10.7. 0... 26  
10.8. —- Rules 26  
10.9. = Referral 27  
10.10. Membership Requirement 2  
10.11. 2)  
### 11. APPENDIX 3- PRIVATE WORKS LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 28  
11.1.  — Gemeral PrOVISIONS 28  
11.2. — Private Works Wage 28  
11.3. — Project A pplication/Limitations 28  
11.4. Adoption of Master Labor A 29  
11.5. Joint Labor-Management COMMiIttee 29  
11.6. = Special COMAITIONS 29  
### 12. ADDENDUM 1 - SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM 31  
12.1. 31  
12.2. Testing ODJeCtIVES 31  
12.3. Procedure FOr 31  
12.4. Probable Suspicion or Accident INVOIVEMENL on  
12.5. Comsent and Transportation 32  
12.6. Type Of 33  
12.7. Testing Procedural Safeguards 33  
12.8. Voluntary ACMISSIONS 34  
12.9. Hold Harmless 34  
12.10 Arnal 34  
12.11. Urine Drugs Of Abuse Thresholds 35  
### BEHAVIOR REPORT FORM 36  
### CLINIC CONSENT FORM 37  
### AGREEMENT FOR CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT 39  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON ii  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 1. INTRODUCTION  
### 1.1. PREAMBLE  
1.1.1. This Agreement is a successive principal Agreement of the 2003-2007, Agreement, and  
all other prior Agreements thereto by and between the Associated General Contractors of  
Washington, a Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. and the signatory  
Teamsters Locals affiliated with IBT.  
1.1.2. For purposes of this Agreement, the AGC of Washington is not acting as a multi-  
employer bargaining agent in a single multi-employer unit, but is acting for and on behalf of  
Employers who have individually requested the AGC of Washington to act as their individual and  
Separate bargaining agent in individual Employer units. Further, each individual principal  
member reserves the right to review and accept or reject any proposed Agreement negotiated  
between the Union and the AGC of Washington acting as an agent for the individual contractor  
members.  
1.1.3. This is a collective bargaining Agreement between certain individual members of the  
Associated General Contractors of Washington, a Chapter of the Associated General Contractors  
of America, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer"), and signatory Teamster Locals  
affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs and Warehousemen of  
America, (hereinafter referred to as the "Union"), and shall constitute an Agreement between the  
parties hereto for the work, conditions and wage rates provided for herein in the territory of  
Western Washington.  
### 1.2. PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT  
1.2.1. The purposes of this Agreement is to promote the settlement of labor disagreement by  
conference, to prevent strikes and lockouts and to stabilize wages and working conditions in  
building, heavy highway construction and engineering work in the area affected.  
1.2.2. Bylaws of either party are not part of this Agreement. It is agreed and understood  
between the parties hereto that this agreement contains all the covenants, stipulations and  
provisions agreed upon by the parties hereto. No agent or representative of either party has  
authority to make any promise, inducement or agreement contrary to the provisions herein.  
1.2.3. The Employer hereby voluntarily recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent  
of all employees performing bargaining unit work covered by this Agreement, and agrees that a  
majority of those employees have designated the Union as their collective bargaining  
representative.  
1.2.4. The Union recognizes the AGC of Washington as the exclusive individual bargaining  
agent for each Employer who has authorized the AGC of Washington to negotiate individually  
with the Union on its behalf.  
### 1,3. WORK AFFECTED  
1.3.1. This Agreement shall cover all Highway, Building, Heavy Construction and Engineering  
projects including the loading and unloading of barges or other carriers of the Employer's  
materials and equipment at loading facilities for the contractor's work performed by Employer  
parties to this Agreement in the counties outlined in Section 1.4.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 1  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
1.3.2. For clarification, Heavy, Highway and Engineering projects are defined as follows:  
Construction of railroads, street railways, roads, highways, streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs and  
gutters, paving (portland cement or asphaltic concrete), airports, bridges, overpasses, Sewers,  
water mains, sanitation projects, irrigation projects, flood control projects, reclamation projects,  
reservoirs, dams, dikes, levees, revetments, channels, aqueducts, channel cutoffs, jetties,  
breakwaters, harbor developments, docks, dry docks, piers, abutments, retaining walls,  
transmission lines, duct lines, subways, shafts, tunnels, excavation of earth and rock, power  
generating projects, reinforced earthwork, and all other heavy construction and engineering  
Operations in connection therewith, and all site clearing, demolition work, pipeline and refinery  
work when covered by this Agreement.  
1.3.3. For further clarification, the term "Building" shall mean a building structure, including  
modifications thereof, or additions or repairs thereto, intended for use for shelter, protection,  
comfort.  
### 1,4, TERRITORY OF AGREEMENT  
1.4.1. This Agreement shall cover all construction in the following counties in the State of  
Washington: Whatcom, Skagit, Snohomish, King, San Juan, Island, Kitsap, Grays Harbor,  
Mason, ] efferson, Clallum, Pierce, Thurston, Lewis, and that portion of Pacific County north of a  
Straight line made by extending the north boundary line of Wahkiakum County west to the Pacific  
Ocean.  
### 1.5. EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION  
1.5.1. This Agreement shall be effective commencing J une 1, 2007, and shall continue in force  
and effect through May 31, 2012. Upon its expiration, this Agreement shall continue from year to  
year, J une 1 through May 31 of each year, by automatic renewal unless changed, terminated or  
Superseded by a successive principal agreement. For the purpose of negotiating alterations in  
wages and other terms and conditions of employment, either party may open this Agreement or  
any contract effectuated through automatic renewal by giving written "Notice of Opening" not later  
than sixty (60), or more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date. "Notice of Opening" Is in  
nowise intended by the parties as a termination of nor shall it in anywise be construed as a  
termination of this Agreement or any annual contract effectuated through automatic renewal nor  
as forestalling automatic renewal as herein provided. The parties reserve the right to economic  
recourse in negotiations, except during the interval between the giving of "Notice of Opening" and  
the expiration date.  
1.5.2. Except by mutual written agreement, termination of this Agreement or any annual  
contract effectuated through automatic renewal, must to the exclusion of all other methods, be  
perfected by giving written "Notice of Termination" not later than sixty (60) nor more than ninety  
(90) days prior to the expiration date, whereupon the contract shall, on its expiration date,  
terminate. Effective termination eliminates automatic renewal.  
1.5.3. Any "Notice of Opening" or "Notice of Termination" given in hand within sixty (60) days of  
any expiration date shall be absolutely null and void and completely ineffective for all purposes.  
1.5.4. This Agreement shall be opened for the purpose of negotiating wages and benefits which  
will become effective | une 1, 2010 though May 31, 2012. understood that the parties retain  
the right to economic recourse for these negotiations.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 2  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 1.6. SAVINGS CLAUSE  
1.6.1. This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed to permit acts which violate  
any valid Federal or State law.  
1.6.2. If any provision of this Agreement or the application of such provision shall in any court or  
other Governmental action, be held invalid, the remaining provisions and their application shall  
not be affected thereby. Provided, however, upon such invalidation the party’s signatory hereto  
agree to immediately meet to re-negotiate such provisions affected. The parties agree to arrive  
at a mutually satisfactory replacement within sixty (60) days unless a definite extension of time is  
mutually agreed to. In the event that the parties are unable to negotiate a replacement, the  
matter shall be resolved through the provisions of Article 4.1.  
### 2. UNION SECURITY  
### 2.1. UNION RECOGNITION AND HIRING PROCEDURES  
2.1.1. Hiring practices and maintenance of Union membership shall be under the Appendix "2"  
attached hereto and hereby made a part of this Agreement.  
2.1.2. The Union and Employer agree that each will fully comply with applicable laws and  
regulations regarding discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment because  
of such person’s race, religion, color, national origin, sex, age or disability. Any reference to  
gender shall include both genders.  
2.1.3. The term "employees" as used in this Agreement includes both male and female  
employees covered by this Agreement. In addition, wherever in this Agreement the masculine  
gender is used, it will apply to the female gender as well.  
### 2.2. SUBCONTRACTORS  
2.2.1. The Employer agrees it will not subcontract or otherwise transfer, in whole or part, any  
work covered by this Agreement to be done at, , the site of the construction, alteration, painting or  
repair of a building, structure, or other work unless the person, firm, corporation or other business  
entity is signatory to this Agreement. The Employer agrees that a member of the Union will be  
employed by the Employer or any contractor or subcontractor at the job site if there is work to be  
done coming under the jurisdiction of the Union Agreement. The Union agrees that it will not take  
economic action to enforce this Article. In the event of any change in the present law, this clause  
will be renegotiated.  
2.2.2. Whenever the Employer is obligated to satisfy WBE/MBE/DBE or other governmental  
requirements, the Employer may waive this provision of the work in the event an Employer and  
Union are unable to find qualified competitive Union subcontractors that meet the above  
requirements.  
2.2.3. When potential Union subcontractors are not available in the locality of the job site to  
perform the work or where the general contractor receives no competitive union bids, by mutual  
agreement, the Employer and Union may waive this provision. Provided however, the Union and  
Employer shall review the prices submitted before assigning the non-union subcontractor.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 3  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 2.3. UNION REPRESENTATIVE  
2.3.1. Authorized representatives of the Union shall have access to the projects provided they  
do not unduly interfere with the work of employees, and that they fully comply with the safety and  
security procedures established for the projects. On projects with restricted access, the  
Employer will cooperate with the Union officials in this regard as far as regulations permit.  
2.3.2. The Employer recognizes the Union's right to appoint a Shop Steward in accordance with  
Local Union Policy. The Steward shall perform their work for the Employer the same as any  
other worker. No Shop Steward shall be disciplined or otherwise discriminated against for their  
Union activity. Although there shall be no non-working Stewards, it is recognized that the  
Steward has an important function in maintaining harmony and cooperation on the job.  
### 2.4. UNION DUES DEDUCTION PROGRAM  
2.4.1. Each Local Union signatory to this agreement shall be entitled to establish a Union Dues  
Deduction Program with Employers signatory to this Agreement. The Union Dues Deduction  
Program shall not exceed twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour for each hour compensated to the  
employee. Upon presentation of a proper authorization form executed by the individual  
employee, the Employer agrees to deduct Union dues from net pay after taxes and remit same to  
the Union in accordance with applicable law. It is understood the Employers will remit each  
month the Union dues deducted in accordance with this Article on the transmittal forms used for  
fringe benefit contributions and that the pro rata costs of such forms and the collection and  
accounting thereof will be paid by the Union to the fringe benefit administrator.  
2.4.2. The authorization forms shall be supplied by the Union and the Employer is under no  
obligations to solicit employees for authorization.  
2.4.3. The Union guarantees that the Union dues to be deducted shall be the uniform amount  
applicable to all members of the Union covered by this Agreement as established by the  
membership or through their duly elected delegates in accordance with the Union constitution.  
The Union guarantees that the Union dues collected in this manner shall not be used as a Strike  
fund against the Employer's party to this agreement. Should the Union violate either provision of  
this paragraph, this Article shall be null and void for the remaining period of this Agreement.  
### 2.5. DRIVE CONTRIBUTIONS  
2.5.1. If itis determined that the Employer is required by law to allow payroll deductions into the  
Teamsters DRIVE Fund, the Employer and the Local Union will execute the appropriate  
paperwork.  
### 3. MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
### 3.1, CUSTOMARY FUNCTIONS  
3.1.1. The Employer retains full and exclusive authority for the management of its operations  
Subject to the provisions of this Agreement. The Employer shall direct his working forces at his  
Sole prerogative including, but not limited to hiring, promotion, transfer, layoff or discharge subject  
to the provisions of Section 6.10. The Employer shall have the right to utilize the most efficient  
methods or techniques of construction, tools or labor saving devices. There shall be no  
limitations upon the choice of materials or design. Discharge or terminations shall be subject to  
the Construction Industry's just cause standard as outlined in Section 6.10.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 4  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
3.1.2. The foregoing enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to exclude other  
functions not specifically set forth. The Employer retains all legal rights not specifically covered  
by this Agreement.  
3.1.3. When an Employer considers it necessary to shut down a job to avoid the possible loss  
of human life, because of an emergency situation beyond the Employer's control that could  
endanger the life and safety of an employee, in such cases, employees will be compensated only  
for the actual time worked.  
### 3.2. SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
3.2.1. Both parties recognize that there may be extenuating circumstances when it is to the  
mutual interest of both parties to modify the terms of this Agreement. In that event, it will not be a  
violation of this Agreement for the parties to meet and mutually agree to make such modifications  
to meet a specific need on a specific project.  
3.2.2. In order to maximize the effect of this provision, all crafts will be requested to act  
uniformly. Employees of a craft should be treated equally under this provision. The General  
Contractor shall encourage his subcontractors to comply with any modifications granted under  
this provision.  
### 4, SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
### 4.1, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
4.1.1. In cases of violation, misunderstandings or differences in interpretation of this  
Agreement, there shall be no cessation or stoppage of work. Grievances will be handled ina  
timely and efficient manner, with both parties pledging their immediate cooperation to eliminate  
the above mentioned possibilities, and the following procedure Is outlined for that purpose:  
Step One- In the event that a dispute arising on the job cannot be satisfactorily  
adjusted on the job between the representative of the Union involved and the Employer,  
the same shall promptly (not later than fifteen (15) working days), be referred to the  
authorized representative of the Union and the Employer or their authorized representative.  
Should they fail to effect a settlement; the matter will proceed to Step Two:  
Step Two- The dispute shall referred to a Board of Conciliation within fifteen (15)  
working days. The Board shall consist of two (2) persons who have no direct involvement in  
the dispute, appointed by each party. If these four (4) persons cannot effect a settlement  
within seven (7) days after the dispute has been referred to them, the matter shall proceed  
to Step Three:  
Step Three- By mutual agreement of the parties, the issue may be referred to  
mediation. The parties shall request a mediator from the Federal Mediation & Conciliation  
Service or other mutually acceptable service. This person shall serve as mediator to  
resolve the dispute. The expense of employing the mediator shall be borne equally by both  
parties and each party shall be responsible for their own attorney fees and costs. Should  
mediation be waived or the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall proceed to  
Step Four.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 5  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
Step Four- The parties shall request a list of seven (7) arbitrators from the Federal  
Mediation and Conciliation Service, and shall alternately strike names until only one name  
remains. In the alternative the parties may agree to select a mutually agreeable arbitrator  
to hear the dispute. This person shall serve as arbitrator to resolve the dispute. The  
expense of employing the arbitrator shall be borne equally by both parties and each party  
Shall be responsible for their own attorney fees and costs.  
4.1.2. Any decision shall be within the scope and terms of this Agreement. It may also provide  
retroactivity not exceeding sixty (60) days and shall state the effective date. Decisions of the  
Board or arbitration shall be final and binding upon all parties. By mutual agreement, the  
aforementioned time frames in this Section may be waived or extended.  
### 4.2. SETTLEMENT OF J URISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
4.2.1. There will be no strikes, no work stoppages or slowdowns or other interference with the  
work because of jurisdictional disputes.  
4.2.2. The Employer shall be responsible for all jurisdictional assignments. In issuing such  
assignments, the Employer shall be guided by decisions of record, jurisdictional agreements of  
record. Craft jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded by classifications appearing in any  
labor agreement. All jurisdictional disputes shall, subject to Section 4.2.3 of this Agreement, be  
adjudicated in accordance with the current Plan for the Settlement of J urisdictional Disputes.  
4.2.3. All jurisdictional disputes between or among building and construction trades Unions and  
Employers shall be settled and adjusted according to the present plan established by the Building  
and Construction Trades Department or any other plan or method of procedure that may be  
adopted in the future by the Building and Construction Trades Department. Decisions rendered  
Shall be final, binding and conclusive on the Employer and Unions.  
### 4,3. STRIKES AND PICKET LINES  
4.3.1. It is mutually agreed that there shall be no strikes, lockouts or other slow down or  
cessation of work by either party on account of any labor difference pending the utilization of the  
grievance machinery, as set forth in 4.1.  
4.3.2. Employees will not be discharged, disciplined or permanently replaced for any protected  
activity related to the recognition of a primary picket line approved by the Union party to this  
Agreement.  
4.3.3. As required by law, employees shall be furnished to the Employer during labor disputes  
with other construction crafts and the Employer will endeavor to work as long as economically  
possible during these periods.  
### 5. HOURS OF WORK  
### 5.1. SINGLE SHIFT OPERATION  
5.1.1. Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day's work; five (5) days shall constitute a week's work,  
Monday morning through Friday.  
5.1.2. A single shift operation shall be restricted to the hours between 6:00 am and 6:00 pm and  
eight (8) hours of continuous employment (except for lunch period) shall constitute a day's work  
Monday through Friday of each week. In the event the job is down due to weather conditions,  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 6  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
Monday through Friday, then Saturday may, at the option of the Employer, be worked as a  
voluntary make-up day at the straight time rate.  
5.1.3. Four ten (10) hour shifts at the straight time rate may be established Monday through  
Thursday with prior written notification to the Union. In the event the job is down due to weather  
conditions, then Friday may, at the option of the Employer, be worked as a voluntary make-up  
day. All hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours a day or forty (40) hours a week must be  
compensated at the overtime rate.  
5.1.4. No employee shall be discharged, laid off, disciplined, replaced or transferred for refusing  
to work a make-up day.  
5.1.5. In the event of a civil emergency such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, floods, or fires,  
Starting time of the shift may be made to fit the emergency and eight (8) hours in any twenty-four  
(24) hour period may be worked at straight time. In order to work such shift, mutual agreement  
Shall be received.  
5.1.6. Special Shifts- When due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer or when  
contract specifications require that work can only be performed outside the regular day shift, then  
a special shift may be worked at the straight time rate. The starting time of work will be arranged  
to fit such conditions of work. Such shift shall consist of eight (8) hours work for eight (8) hours  
pay or ten (10) hours work for ten (10) hours pay for four ten shifts.  
Holiday Week- In the event that a holiday is celebrated during the week (Monday  
through Friday), the remaining four days of the week may be worked as a four ten shift as defined  
in Section 5.1.3.  
### 5.2. MULTIPLE SHIFT OPERATION  
5.2.1. Shifts may be established when considered necessary by the Employer. Shift hours and  
rates will be as follows:  
5.2.2. Two Shift Operation- On a two consecutive shift operation, no shift penalty is involved  
for work performed on either of these two shifts. Each shift must be scheduled for at least eight  
(8) hours except as provided for in Section 5.1. of this Agreement. On a two shift operation, the  
second shift shall be established for a minimum of three (3) days. The Employer shall notify the  
Local Union prior to the start of a two shift operation.  
(a) Once the starting times are established for the two shift operation, they shall not  
be changed except upon three (3) working days written notice to the Union.  
5.2.3. Three Shift Operation- On a three-shift operation, the following shall apply:  
(a) First Shift - The regular hours of work on the first shift of three shift operations  
Shall be eight (8) hours of continuous employment, except for lunch period at mid shift  
between the hours of 6:00am and 6:00pm.  
(b) Second Shift - The second shift shall be seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours of  
continuous employment, except for lunch period at mid shift and shall be paid for eight (8)  
hours at the straight time hourly wage rate.  
(c) Third Shift - The third shift shall consist of seven (7) consecutive hours of  
employment, except for lunch period at mid shift and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at the  
Straight time hourly wage rate.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 7  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
5.2.4. Multiple shift (a two or three shift) operation will not be construed on the entire project if  
at any time it is deemed advisable and necessary for the Employer to multiple shift a specific  
operation. Those groups of employees only who relieve first shift groups of employees and such  
first shift groups of employees who are relieved by groups of employees on a second shift, and  
on a three shift operation those groups of employees who relieve the groups of employees ona  
second shift, shall be construed as working multiple shifts. The intent of this clause shall be  
construed so as to recognize that a "reliever group" and a "relief group" does not necessarily  
mean "man for man" relief.  
5.2.5. Itis understood and agreed that when the first shift of a multiple shift (a two or three shift)  
operation is started at the basic straight time rate or at a specific overtime rate, all shifts of that  
day's operation shall be completed at that rate.  
5.2.6. The Employer shall notify the Local Union prior to the start of a multiple shift (a 2 or 3  
Shift).  
### 5.3. OVERTIME  
5.3.1. Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours of straight time per day, or ten (10) hours of  
Straight time per day when four ten (10) hour shifts are established, or forty (40) hours per week,  
Monday through Friday, or outside the normal shift, and all work on Saturdays, except for make  
up days, shall be paid at time and one-half the straight time rate. All work performed after 6:00  
pm Saturday to 6:00 am Monday shall be paid at double the straight time rate of pay. The  
Employer shall have the sole discretion to assign overtime work to employees. Primary  
consideration for overtime work shall be given to employees regularly assigned to the work to be  
performed on overtime situations.  
### 5,4. REPORTING AND MINIMUM HourRS PAY  
5.4.1. When an employee or new hire reports to work for his regular or assigned shift and  
weather permitting is not put to work, he shall be paid two (2) hours reporting time and shall  
remain at the job site for the two (2) hours if required by the Employer.  
5.4.2. Employees who work less than four (4) hours shall be paid four (4) hours; they shall be  
paid for actual hours worked if required to work more than four (4) hours. Employees who cannot  
work a full shift because of weather conditions shall be paid for actual hours worked.  
5.4.3. Night Shift- If the Employer establishes a night shift the minimum shall be four (4) hours  
pay unless the employee works four (4) or more hours in such case the minimum shall be six (6)  
hours pay, if the employee works six (6) hours or more the minimum shall be eight (8) hours pay.  
5.4.4 Shift Pay- Any shift starting between the hours of 6:00 pm and midnight inclusive shall  
receive an additional one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked that shift and shall be  
consistent with the above hourly minimums in 5.4.3. When possible, the Employer shall notify  
employees of night work at least one (1) week in advance.  
5.4.5. If any employee refuses to start work or if any employee stops work of his own volition,  
the minimum Set forth in Section 5.4.2 above shall not apply.  
5.4.6. When employees, including new hires, reporting for work arrive on the job unprepared to  
perform the work required (for example, under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or inadequate  
clothes), the Employer shall not be expected to put such individuals to work nor shall they be  
entitled to reporting pay if not put to work.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 8  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
5.4.7. _.Pre-trip inspections and post trip inspections shall be considered as, and paid as time  
worked.  
### 6. EMPLOYMENT POLICIES  
### 6.1. SAFETY MEASURES  
6.1.1. The Employer and the employee will conform to all Federal and State health and safety  
regulations applicable to work covered by this Agreement and shall have adequate shelters  
available where necessary, with heat, where the workers can change and dry their clothes and  
Store their tools. On all projects covered by this Agreement, there shall be provided by the  
Employer at all times during construction, sanitary facilities consisting of a reasonable number of  
toilets and urinals. Fresh drinking water will be available to the workers. Employer will furnish  
welding equipment including all leathers, hard hats, eye protection, ear protection, respirators,  
Safety belts and lanyards, and reflective vests. The Employer will transport drivers, when  
necessary in safe vehicles, not on the back of a tail gate of a pick-up truck.  
6.1.2. Overload tickets, fines (including late fines and penalties or other Departmental Actions  
which affect the employees driving record) and/or citations will be paid by the Company ina  
timely manner, only in those cases where the Company's conduct was directly responsible for the  
violation, ticket, citation or action. In that case, the Company will contact the DMV or other  
appropriate entity to request that the overload ticket does not go on the driver's record or to  
resolve the issue.  
6.1.3. This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be construed as creating, imposing, or  
adopting on the Union or representatives any state common-law duties in the areas of safety  
### 6.2. SPECIAL SAFETY MEASURES  
6.2.1. To insure safety and eliminate unnecessary occupational accidents, the Employers agree  
that vehicles will be properly cabbed and screened and shall be equipped with heaters and  
defrosters. On-the-highway vehicles shall be equipped with large mirrors.  
6.2.2. In the event of a legitimate safety complaint applicable to the job, the employee involved  
Shall not suffer disciplinary action of such serious nature as to cause him to lose his job.  
6.2.3. The employee will notify his supervisor immediately of any alleged safety defect. If the  
employee and his supervisor are in disagreement regarding the serviceability of the equipment,  
the employee's Union Representative and the Employer will be the first called to resolve the  
dispute.  
6.2.4. No employee shall be required to drive a vehicle that does not meet the requirements of  
the State vehicle safety codes with regard to brakes, running gear and mechanical soundness. If  
an employee is requested to drive a vehicle in violation of this clause, the Union will contact the  
Employer and in the event necessary corrections are not made, the Union will then contact the  
AGC. Ifthe Union and AGC agree on the violation, the refusal of the employee to operate such  
vehicle until it is repaired shall not be a violation of this Agreement, and no further steps of  
arbitration shall apply.  
(a) High speed roads shall be properly maintained.  
6.2.5. Protective Clothing - Where un-cabbed equipment must be operated in the rain and/or  
wet tunnels, the Employer will furnish suitable rain gear that fits the employee. The employee  
Shall guarantee the return of this rain gear in like condition, normal wear and tear excepted.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 9  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 6.3. LUNCH PROVISIONS  
6.3.1. Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours from the start of the  
shift without at least a one-half (1/2) hour unpaid break for lunch. This lunch period shall not  
begin earlier than three and one-half (3-1/2) hours after the start of the shift Employees who  
work through lunch shall be paid one-half (1/2) hour at the applicable overtime rate and must be  
allowed time to eat their lunch. If not allowed to eat lunch, employees will be paid an additional  
one-half (1/2) hour at the applicable overtime rate.  
6.3.2. Employees required to work more than two (2) hours after the end of the regular shift  
Shall be allowed at least one-half (1/2) hour meal period which shall be considered as time  
worked, and if it is impractical for the employees to leave the job, they shall be provided a lunch  
by the Employer.  
6.3.3. In the event that the Employer establishes a ten (10) hour day, the above lunch periods  
Shall be at mid-shift. Employees' lunch period may be staggered during the period of three and  
one-half (3-1/2) to five (5) hours from the start of the shift to cover necessary work of a  
continuous nature.  
### 6.4, REST PERIODS  
6.4.1. The nature of the construction work covered by this agreement allows intermittent rest  
periods. Employers shall provide such intermittent rest periods as work flow permits, equivalent  
to ten (10) minutes for each four (4) hours worked. Scheduled rest periods are not required.  
6.4.2. It will be the responsibility of each employee to take such intermittent rest periods. If an  
employee does not take a rest period, then the employee must notify his/her supervisor and a  
rest period will be provided.  
6.5. Pay DAY  
6.5.1. Employees shall be paid in full once each week (on the same day), but in no event shall  
wages be withheld for more than five (5) days' (Saturday, Sunday and Holidays excluded).  
6.5.2. If the regular pay day falls on a Holiday, the workmen shall be paid on the last regular  
work day before the holiday.  
6.5.3. The Employer will have the following options of making payment: negotiable check made  
on local bank, paid at the job site or Employer's office, direct deposit in employee’s bank account  
(at the election of employee) or by mail.  
6.5.4. If payment is not made expressly as provided herein, then the employee shall be paid  
two (2) hours pay at the appropriate hourly wage rate for each twenty-four (24) hour period  
thereafter until payment is made. In the case of payment by mail, the postmark on the envelope  
will serve as the cutoff for any penalty.  
6.5.5. The Employer shall furnish to each employee at the time of payment of wages an  
itemized statement showing the pay basis (i.e., hours or days worked), rate or rates of pay, gross  
wages, and all deductions there from for that pay period. In addition, the name, address and  
telephone number of the Employer shall be indicated.  
6.5.6. No adjustment of disputed pay will be made unless the employee or the Union shall  
make a claim in writing to the Employer's representative fifteen (15) days from the pay period in  
question.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 10  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
6.5.7. Employees who quit shall be paid not later than the next regular pay period.  
6.5.8. Employees who are laid off or discharged shall be paid not later than the end of the next  
regular business day. In the case of payment by mail, the postmark on the envelope will serve as  
the cutoff for any penalty.  
### 6.6. SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY  
6.6.1. Labor and Management are committed to providing employees with a drug-free and  
alcohol-free workplace. It is the goal to protect the health and safety of employees and to  
promote a productive workplace, and protect the reputation of Labor and Management and the  
employees.  
6.6.2. Consistent with those goals, the Employer prohibits the use, possession, distribution or  
Sale, at its employment sites, of drugs, drug paraphernalia, or alcohol. A testing program,  
pursuant to the controlled substance and alcohol abuse program may be instituted, upon mutual  
consent of labor and management which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, to monitor  
compliance with this policy.  
6.6.3. An acceptable Substance Abuse Program is contained in a separate addendum to this  
Collective Bargaining Agreement but is not a part of this agreement and modification to this  
Substance Abuse Program by mutual agreement of the Employer and the Union will not  
constitute a change to this agreement. Mutual agreement will not be unreasonably withheld.  
6.6.4. Any grievance related to an individual substance abuse program shall be  
resolved through the Settlement of Disputes/Grievance section of this agreement.  
### 6.7. LIGHT DUTY RETURN TO WORK  
6.7.1. It is agreed that the Employer may return an injured member to light duty status, when  
allowed by the member's doctor. When such light duty work is available, light duty functions may  
not be work of another craft or work under classifications covered by the Master Teamster  
Agreement and Schedule "A" classifications. At no time will the member's total earnings be less  
than his/her full time loss compensation under industrial insurance. Further, the member will be  
provided with a full fringe package, as per the collective bargaining agreement over and above  
total remuneration. Should the member on light duty have to be laid off due to no work available,  
the Employer will not adversely affect his/her ability to continue to receive loss time benefits from  
the Industrial Insurance Division of Labor and Industries (including self insured employers),  
provided they are still medically eligible.  
### 6.8. APPRENTICESHIP & TRAINING PROVISION  
6.8.1. The parties to the Agreement agree that the best interest of the construction industry will  
be served by establishing an apprenticeship program so that the new employees may be trained  
in the operation of equipment covered by this Agreement. The Washington Construction  
Teamsters Apprenticeship program as registered with the Washington State Apprenticeship and  
Training Council shall be adopted by the parties.  
6.8.2. In addition to the above mentioned trust funds, an Apprenticeship and Training Trust, to  
be known as the “Eastern Washington-Northern Idaho Teamsters Construction Industry  
Apprenticeship and Training Trust” is hereby established. A sum of twenty-five cents ($0.25) per  
compensable hour worked for all employees covered by this Agreement shall be contributed to  
the fund by all Employers signatory to this Agreement as amended J une 1, 2007. Operation of  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 11  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
the trust fund shall be controlled and administered by a joint board of trustees. The trust  
agreement as amended shall be attached to and become a part of this Agreement.  
### 6.9. LONGEVITY  
6.9.1. In the interest of promoting work opportunities for qualified employees the Employer will,  
without restricting it’s rights under Section 3 of this Agreement, consider length of employment  
with the Employer in making work assignments for qualified employees.  
6.9.2. If the employee qualifications (which include being conveniently available) and overall  
work performance, including demonstrated commitment to safety, are equal among one or more  
employees available to perform a given work assignment, utilizing the equipment,  
then provided such action will not restrict:  
a) the ability to utilize its as itdeems necessary or  
b) the Employer's ability to effectively utilize the relative skills of individual employees  
performing work; longevity shall determine the priority of work.  
6.9.3. Excluded from this policy will be employee work assignments made to allow the  
Employer to meet applicable EEO or other governmental contract requirements. The Employer  
does not recognize a seniority list and reserves its right to change the order in which employees  
are assigned work if any of these employees are not available or qualified for certain trucks or  
work, or if the Employer has other sound business reasons, provided the change is not for  
retaliatory or punitive reasons.  
6.9.4. No employee shall be laid off as a result of exercising his or her rights under this  
Agreement. An employee will have ten (10) working days to file, in writing, a claim of violation of  
this longevity provision, otherwise it will be null and void.  
### 6.10. DISCIPLINE  
6.10.1. Employees who have not worked a minimum of 500 hours shall be considered “at will”  
and may be subject to discharge with no recourse under the qrievance procedure outlined in the  
agreement.  
6.10.2. Employees who worked more than 500 hours may be disciplined, suspended or discharged  
for just cause subject to the following conditions:  
6.10.3. No employee shall be warned or suffer suspension or discharge except in accord with  
the provisions of this Section and any warning, notice of suspension or notice of discharge must  
be in writing and dated.  
6.10.4. Warning notices, suspensions or discharges, except as hereinafter provided, not  
executed within ten (10) days of Employer’s knowledge of any given incident are void.  
6.10.5. A copy of each warning notice, notice of Suspension or notice of discharge shall  
immediately be delivered to the employee and a copy forwarded to the Union. The employee will  
be asked to sign an acknowledgment of receipt of a copy of the warning, suspension or  
discharge. The signing of the receipt by the employee shall not be regarded as an admission by  
the employee that he did or failed to do the thing about which he is warned, suspended or  
discharged.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 12  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
6.10.6. Except as provided in 6.10.7, there shall be no suspension or discharge unless within the  
revious twelve (12) months the Employer has given the employee a previous written warnin  
notice wherein facts forming the grounds of Employer dissatisfaction were clearly set forth.  
6.10.7. Warning notices are not necessary if the grounds for the suspension or discharge is  
dishonesty; recklessness; gross negligence; insubordination; theft; willful damage to the  
Employer's property; possession, sale or use of dangerous drugs or narcotics or drinking related  
to employment; assault of or to fellow employees or to other persons with whom the employer  
has an actual or potential business relationship; actions resulting in a safety or environmental  
hazard: actions which cause material damage to the Employer; carrying of unauthorized  
passengers or deliberate falsification of records including time cards. Discharges or suspensions  
under these exceptions must be executed within fourteen (14) calendar days of the occurrence of  
the incident forming the grounds. However, if the Employer’s knowledge of the incident is not  
immediate, a discharge or suspension founded thereon must be executed within fourteen (14)  
calendar days of the time the Employer acquires knowledge of same, but in no event more than  
sixty (60) days following the incident, except for dishonesty.  
6.10.8. Any disagreement over any action taken under this Section shall be handled according to  
Section 4, Settlement of Disputes.  
### 7. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  
### 7.1, HOLIDAYS  
7.1.1. Holidays recognized by this Agreement shall be New Year's Day, Memorial Day (last  
Monday in May), Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday and Saturday after  
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. Any holiday which falls on a Sunday shall be observed as  
a holiday on the following Monday. A holiday shall be a twenty-four (24) hour period, beginning  
with the regular starting time of the first shift on the date of the holiday, unless otherwise mutually  
agreed to by the Employers and the Union. No work shall be performed on Labor Day except to  
protect life and property or by mutual agreement of the Union and the Employer. If any of the  
listed holidays falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be a regular work day. Employees  
assigned to work on a holiday shall be compensated at two times (2X) the regular rate of pay.  
### 7.2. HEALTH & SECURITY  
7.2.1. agreed that all Employers covered by this Agreement shall contribute a sum as listed  
in Schedule "A", herein for each compensable man hour of Teamsters employed by such  
Employers in work contained under the terms of this Agreement. Said contributions shall be  
made on or before the tenth (10th) day of the month following the month in which the hours were  
worked to the Teamsters Construction Industry Fund set up under a trust agreement established  
by the parties to this Agreement and in the manner set forth in said trust agreement. The details  
of the Health & Security Plan established by this trust fund shall continue to be controlled and  
administered by a joint Board of Trustees composed of equal representation from the Unions  
party to this Agreement, and the AGC of Washington who are signators to the trust agreement of  
the aforesaid trust fund. Each Trustee appointed by the Union shall be a member of the Union  
party to this Agreement, and each Trustee appointed for the Employers shall be a member of an  
affiliated firm of the AGC of Washington or a regular paid employee of the AGC of Washington.  
In the event an Employer fails to make the monetary contributions in conformity with this section  
of the Agreement, the Union is free to take any economic action against such Employer it deems  
necessary and such action shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 13  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
7.2.2. It is understood that the Union and Employer associations are principal parties to the  
Trust Agreements, and therefore, shall be furnished full information on the actions of the Trustees  
and the operations of the Trusts.  
7.2.3. Should the State or Federal Government enact legislation that requires the Employer to  
provide employees and/or their dependents a Health, Medical, or Surgical plan prior to the  
expiration of this Agreement which duplicates coverage otherwise provided for in the Agreement,  
the parties signatory to the Agreement shall meet to discuss costs and modifications within thirty  
(30) days of enactment.  
7.2.4. The Employer and the Union agree that if alternative Health Care Plans become  
available during the life of this Agreement they shall meet, upon request from the Union, for the  
purposes of negotiating changes in Health Care Plans.  
### 7.3. PENSION  
7.3.1. The continuance of this Collective Bargaining Agreement the Employer shall pay into the  
Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund on account of each member of the  
bargaining unit a sum as listed in Schedule "A" for each hour for which compensation is paid to  
him, said amounts to be computed monthly. The total amount due for each calendar month shall  
be remitted in a lump sum not later than ten (10) days after the last business day of each month.  
The Employer agrees to abide by such rules as may be established by the Trustees of said Trust  
Fund to facilitate the determination of the hours for which contributions are due, the prompt and  
orderly collection of such amounts, and the accurate reporting and recording of such hours and  
such amounts paid on account of each member of the bargaining unit. Failure to make all  
payments herein provided for within the time specified shall be a breach of this Agreement. In  
the event an Employer fails to make the monetary contributions in conformity with this Section of  
the Agreement, the Union is free to take any economic action against such Employer it deems  
necessary and such action shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement.  
7.3.2. Itis hereby understood that the Union and Employer associations are principal parties to  
the Trust Agreements, and therefore, shall be furnished full information on the actions of the  
Trustees and the operations of the Trusts.  
7.3.3. The contributions required to provide the Enhanced Early Retirement Program are not  
taken into consideration for benefit accrual purposes under the Plan. The additional contribution  
for the PEER II must at all time be 6.5% of the basic contribution and cannot be decreased or  
discontinued at any time.  
### 8. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  
### 8.1, NORTHWEST FAIR CONTRACTING INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE  
8.1.1. The Employer agrees to deduct from the net pay (after taxes) of each employee  
performing work covered by the terms of the agreement a sum as listed in Schedule "A" for each  
hour worked and remit same to the Northwest Fair Contracting Industry Improvement Committee.  
Contributions will be made on the same form as the Health and Security payments.  
8.1.2. The pro-rata costs of such forms, collection and accounting will be paid by the committee  
to the fringe benefit administrator.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 14  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 8.2, PRE-DETERMINED WAGE RATE PROJ ECTS  
8.2.1. In the event the Employer bids a public job or project being awarded by a Federal, state,  
county, city or other public entity which is to be performed at a pre-determined and/or prevailing  
wage rate established pursuant to the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act (Public Law 74-403  
(8/30/35) as amended 3/23/41 and 7/2/64 (40 USC 276A-276A7 as amended) or established by  
the Industrial Commission of Washington pursuant to the provisions of Title 39 RCW (39.12)  
prevailing wages on public works-Washington State, Prevailing Wage on Public Works, the  
published hourly wage rate set forth in said public work at the time of bid shall apply for the first  
24 months from notice to proceed. The fringe benefit contribution rates at the time of bid shall be  
frozen for twelve months. After twelve months the current fringe benefit rate shall apply.  
Notwithstanding the above, project agreements may be mutually agreed upon to allow use of the  
pre-determined wage and fringe rate for the duration of a project to exceed 24 months.  
8.2.2. In the event the specifications include an escalator provision covering wages, such  
amount will be included as an increase to wages to the extent that the Employer may recover in  
the escalator claim.  
8.2.3. The Employer shall when requested in writing, supply accurate and reliable information  
on company stationery that will assist the Union in establishing the correct Davis-Bacon rates  
when responding to DOL requests for prevailing wage data.  
8.2.4. The parties agree to conduct J oint Labor Management Committee meetings for the  
purpose of addressing concerns regarding counties which are not currently prevailed at the  
contractual rate. The intent of these meetings is to address concerns with remaining competitive  
in the bidding process.  
### 8.3. CRAFT WoRK RULES  
8.3.1. Consideration shall be given to the length of employment with the Employer on any job  
as well as to qualifications to do the work, required when terminating an employee, or when  
rehiring a former employee. An employee who is discharged or voluntarily quits shall not be  
entitled to such consideration.  
8.3.2. When an Employer uses his own employees to move any heavy equipment or machinery  
which is owned or used by him or which is leased to another Employer, such employees shall be  
members of this bargaining unit.  
8.3.3. On jobs where heated cabs are not furnished on the equipment, arrangements shall be  
made by the Employer for a warm dry place for the employees to eat their lunch.  
### 8.4, FOREMEN  
8.4.1. There shall be no desire on the part of the Union to select the Employer's equipment  
foreman or dispatcher. When in the Employer's opinion the spread is sufficient to require the  
services of a full time foreman or dispatcher, such foreman or dispatcher shall be qualified to  
Supervise such work as may come within the scope of this Agreement, but he shall be a member  
of the bargaining unit.  
### 8.5. PRE-J OB CONFERENCE - EMPLOYER CHANGE IN TERRITORY  
8.5.1. If either party desires a Pre-] ob Conference, they may request it from the other party.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 15  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
8.5.2. Where an Employer moves into a territory away from his home area to begin a new  
project, he will orally or in writing notify the Local Union in whose territory he is to perform the  
work prior to starting said project.  
### 8.6. OWNER-OPERATORS  
8.6.1 When a piece of equipment is operated by its owner and is used on work covered by this  
Agreement, the Employer shall pay the owner-operator of said piece of equipment wages,  
overtime, travel (and only if the owner-operator is incorporated, also pension, health & welfare),  
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the check stubs will show equipment  
rental separate from other itemized items. In order to protect the employee benefits of this  
Agreement and the bargaining unit work from dilution due to substandard equipment rental rates,  
the Employer agrees to pay the proper tariff as established by the W.U.T.C.  
8.6.2. The Employer agrees to maintain current records of the lease rates paid to and hours  
worked by owner-operator which shall be open to inspection upon the request by the Union for  
justified cause.  
8.6.3. The Employer will require proof of the owner's vehicle registration, certification of  
insurance, and a current endorsed Combination License, for all owner-operators engaged by the  
Employer. This Article shall not apply when a written subcontract has been entered into with the  
owner-operator.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 16  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 9. APPENDIX 1- SCHEDULE "A" - CLASSIFICATIONS, WAGE AND BENEFIT SCALES  
   
### 9.1. SCALE OF WAGES  
### NOTE: ONLY ZONE "A" RATES ARE SHOWN FOR ALL CLASSIFICATIONS. REFER TO  
### SCHEDULE "C"FOR ZONE "B" & "C" RATE ADJ USTMENTS.  
### CLASS |  
### CLASS Il  
### CLASS IV  
Mechanic  
Mechanic Helper  
### 9.2. FRINGE PAYMENTS SCHEDULE  
   
### APPRENTICESHIP  
DEDUCTIONS: (Deduct from net wages)  
NW Fair Contracting Committee  
Union Dues Deduction - Not to exceed $0.25/hour per Section 2.4.  
   
* It is understood by the parties that monies may be diverted from the hourly wage rate to fund  
necessary increases to the Health and Security Plans.  
### 9.3. HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS  
9.3.1. Medical, Dental, & Vision: Effective | anuary 1, 2008, based upon December 2007 hours,  
the WTWT plans listed below shall be in effect. The specific lanquage shall be determined by the  
Trustees of the Teamsters Construction Industry Trust (TCIT).  
Programs Monthly Premiums  
as of J une 1, 2007  
ee  
Medical - Plan B $698.90  
Time Loss 20.00  
Life andA,D, &D PlanA $9.40  
Disability Waiver $11.40  
   
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 17  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 9.4, 2008-2009 WAGE AND BENEFIT INCREASES  
9.4.1. Effective 1, 2007, the total package increase for wages, Health and Security and  
Pension shall be equal to a five and one half percent (5.5%) increase in the total package, and a  
five cent ($.10) per hour increase to Group | Wages as outlined above.  
9.4.2. Effective | une 1, 2008, the total package increase for wages, Health and Security and  
Pension shall be equal to a five and one half percent (5.5%) increase in the total package, and a  
five cent ($.05) per hour increase to Group | Wages as outlined above.  
9.4.3. Effective | une 1, 2009, the total package increase for wages, Health and Security and  
Pension shall be equal to a five percent (5 %) increase in the total package, as outlined above.  
### 9.5. FRINGE BENEFIT OPTION  
9.5.1. The distribution of wages and fringe benefits will be agreed to by the labor/management  
negotiating committee sixty (60) days prior to the implementation date of the increases as set  
forth in Section 9.4.  
### 9.6. EQUIPMENT CLASSIFICATIONS  
Class | "A-frame or Hydralift" trucks and Boom trucks or similar equipment,  
when "A" frame or "Hydralift" and Boom truck or similar equipment Is  
used  
Buggymobile  
Bulk Cement Tanker  
Dumpsters, and similar equipment, Tournorockers, Tournowagon,  
Turnotrailer, Cat. D.W. Series, Terra Cobra, Le Tourneau,  
Westinghouse, Athye wagon, Euclid two and four-wheeled power  
tractor with trailer and similar top-loaded equipment transporting  
material and performing work in Teamster jurisdiction.  
Dump trucks, side, end and bottom dump, including articulated semi-  
trucks and trains or combinations thereof: 16 yards to 30 yards  
capacity. Over 30 yards, $.15 per hour additional for each 10 yard  
increment.  
Explosive Truck (field mix) and similar equipment  
Hyster Operators (handling bulk loose aggregates)  
Lowbed and Heavy Duty Trailer  
Road Oil Distributor Driver  
Spreader, Flaherty  
Transit mix used exclusively in heavy construction  
NOTE: All types of trucks or equipment used to haul portland cement  
ready-mix shall be governed by the Transit Mix Scales.  
Water Wagon and Tank Truck: 3000 gallons and over capaci  
   
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 18  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
Class Il Bull lifts, or similar equipment and equipment with modifications used  
in loading or unloading trucks, transporting materials on job sites  
Contractors Bus or Manhaul  
Dumpsters, and similar equipment, Tournorockers, Tournowagon,  
Turnotrailer, Cat. D.W. Series, Terra Cobra, Le Tourneau,  
Westinghouse, Athye wagon, Euclid two and four-wheeled power  
tractor with trailer and similar top-loaded equipment transporting  
material and performing work in Teamster jurisdiction.  
Dump trucks, side, end and bottom dump, including semi-trucks and  
trains or combinations thereof: Less than 16 yd. capacity  
Flatbed: Dual Rear Axle  
Grease Truck, Fuel Truck, Greaser, Battery Service Man and/or Tire  
Service Man Leverman and Loaders at bunkers and batch plants  
Oil Tank Transport  
NOTE: Oil Tank Transport classification not available for Private  
Works projects.  
Scissor  
Slurry Truck  
Sno-Go and similar equipment  
Swampers  
Straddler Carrier (Ross, Hyster) & similar equipment  
Team Driver  
Tractor, small rubber tired (when used within Teamster jurisdiction)  
Vacuum Truck  
Warehousemen and Checkers  
Water Wagon and Tank Truck: less than 3,000 gallon capacity  
Winch Truck: Single Rear Axle  
Wrecker, Tow Truck & similar equipment  
Class Ill_ | Flatbed: Single Rear Axle  
Pickup Sweeper  
Pickup Truck  
NOTE: Adjust Class IIl upward by $2.00 per hour for onsite work only.  
Class Escortor Pilot Car  
   
NOTE: All earthmoving shall be classified in accordance with the manufacturers rated water  
level capacity with or without sideboards but sideboards used specifically to prevent spillage or  
for balancing the load shall not affect the capacity.  
NOTE: All equipment shall carry information with respect to manufacturers’ rate capacity.  
### 9.7. HAZMAT PROJ ECTS PAY  
Anyone working on a HAZMAT job, where HAZMAT certification is required, shall be  
compensated as a premium, in addition to the classification working in as follows:  
LEVEL C: +$.25 PER HOUR <NOTE: This level uses an air purifying respirator or additional  
protective clothing.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 19  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
LEVEL B: +$.50 PER HOUR <NOTE: Uses same respirator protection as Level A. Supplied  
air line is provided in conjunction with a chemical "splash suit."  
LEVEL A: +$.75PER HOUR  <NOTE: This level utilizes a fully-encapsulated suit with a self-  
contained breathing apparatus or a supplied air line.  
Where employees are required to wear glasses, the company shall furnish the required masked  
glasses.  
### 9.8. MISCELLANEOUS PAY ISSUES  
9.8.1. Any work performed, other than driving, such as gassing, greasing or servicing any  
teamster equipment, shall be paid for at the employee's regular rate.  
9.8.2. When equipment that is not listed herein is put to work on a construction job, the nearest  
comparable rate in this Agreement shall be paid while the parties to this Agreement negotiate a  
proper rate. The agreed upon rate shall be retroactive to date equipment was put into operation.  
9.8.3. When a foreman or dispatcher is designated to take charge of a crew, he shall be paid  
not less than fifty cents ($0.50) per hour over the highest classification under his supervision.  
9.8.4. Drivers, helpers and warehouseman handling sack cement or lime will receive fifteen  
cents ($0.15) per hour premium pay.  
9.8.5. When an employee is temporarily required to perform work of another classification  
within his craft, the employee shall be paid the higher rate that either classification calls for while  
required to perform such work.  
9.8.6. When work is performed for a minimum of one (1) hour during the first half of the shift,  
the employee affected shall receive four (4) hours pay at the appropriate rate. Whenever work is  
performed, a minimum of one (1) hour during the second half of the shift, the employee affected  
Shall receive four (4) hours pay at the applicable rate.  
9.8.7. Craft jurisdiction is not determined by classifications appearing in this Agreement.  
9.8.8 Drivers assigned to Heavy Equipment Haulers, ten axles or above shall receive an  
additional one dollar ($1.00) per hour while performing that task.  
### 9.9. SCHEDULE "B" - ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL  
9.9.1. The payment for transportation reimbursement shall be governed by the following  
provisions:  
9.9.2. The parties recognize that it is sometimes inconvenient to get to the job location because  
of varying distances. It is agreed and understood that while traveling to and from work, the  
employees are not within the course and scope of their employment.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 20  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
9.9.3. The parties therefore adopt the following provisions for wage scales: Zone pay will be  
calculated from the city center of the following listed cities:  
Bellingham Raymond Olympia  
Everett — | Shelton Anacortes | Bellevue  
| | Mt.Vernon  
   
Tacoma Port Aberdeen Bremerton  
Townsend  
Travel:  
| FreeZone i  
| 25-45 Miles | $.70 Per Hour  
Over 45 Miles | $1.00 Per Hour  
### 9.10. CAMP PROVISION  
9.10.1. When the Employer provides camp or board and lodging, the basic wage scale will be  
observed and rate of camp or board and lodging will not exceed $3.00 per day to be paid by the  
employee. On jobs in remote areas, where camp or board and lodging is not provided and  
housing is inadequate or the cost of housing is prohibitive, the Employer will make every effort to  
arrange for housing at reasonable rates to his employees.  
9.10.2. On dams, hydroelectric, building projects, and other remote engineering projects such as  
airports, refineries and radar or radio installations, but not limited thereto, where the Employer  
provides camp or board and lodging, remuneration for travel expense will be paid as set forth in  
Section 9.8.1. above, plus required traveling time for the initial trip to the job and return. Payment  
of travel time and travel remuneration on the return trip will be paid to all employees, including  
discharges and layoffs. The only exception that shall apply will be as to those employees that  
remain on the job less than thirty (30) calendars days, who voluntarily quit.  
### 9.11. TIME IN TRANSIT  
9.11.1. Time for driving a truck from the point of pickup to the job and time to drive a truck to the  
point the truck is to be left after work shall be considered time worked and paid for at the  
applicable rate of straight time or overtime pay.  
9.11.2. If an employee is left stranded away from his transportation, his pay shall continue until  
he is returned to his place of starting but in no event shall he be paid more than eight (8) hours  
pay at the straight time rate for each twenty-four (24) hour period away from his starting place.  
### 9.12. PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION REIMBURSEMENT  
9.12.1. All necessary ferry or other forms of water transportation are to be reimbursed by the  
Employer in the following instances and manner:  
(a) Employees will be reimbursed at the passenger fare or passenger car fare when  
by receipts.  
(b) When employees elect to live at or near the project and forego daily ferry travel,  
it is recognized that they are entitled to the prerogative of visiting their homes for the  
weekend, and in that event ferry charges shall be paid for such weekend travel as  
by receipts.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 21  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
(c) When circumstances make it necessary that a toll bridge be utilized, the  
employee will be reimbursed accordingly.  
### 9.13. TRAVEL EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT  
9.13.1. A sufficient amount of expense money for fuel, permits, tolls, meals (while outside of the  
normal working hours) and lodging shall be advanced to employees while transporting  
equipment. There shall be no exception. Receipts for expenses incurred will be submitted to his  
Employer by the employee.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 22,  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 10. APPENDIX 2- HIRING AND UNION RECOGNITION  
### 10.1. GENERAL HIRING HALL RULES  
10.1.1. The hiring arrangements set forth in this Appendix 2 shall be the exclusive method by  
which Employers employ qualified teamsters. The Employers shall only employ qualified  
teamsters who shall be qualified for employment under this Agreement if they have had at least  
two (2) years of actual working experience in the building, heavy and highway construction  
industry or have worked as a Business Agent or Dispatcher officially assigned to heavy duty  
construction by their respective Union Locals under the terms of this Agreement or a predecessor  
agreement, and had been in Group One at the time of their employment by their respective  
Locals under the terms of this Agreement or a predecessor agreement.  
10.1.2. Employers shall hire qualified Teamsters by calling the Union. Whenever the Employer  
requires Teamsters on any job, he shall notify the Local Union office either in writing or by  
telephone, stating the location, starting time, approximate duration of the job, the type of work to  
be performed and the number of workmen required.  
10.1.3. Employees covered by this Agreement have certain accrued rights of benefits for  
themselves and their dependents under health and welfare and pension plans which accrue to  
them by virtue of length of employment with Employers, party to this Agreement, and such rights  
are generally continuous while under employment and remain effective until a certain period of  
time after lay-off or discharge.  
10.1.4. All classes of Teamsters shall be hired and/or rehired in accordance with the length of  
service with Employers in the collective bargaining unit as provided in the following sections.  
10.1.5. There shall be three (3) groupings of the out-of-work list. All Teamsters with accrued  
rights shall be registered in either Group One or Group Two, and all other Teamsters who are  
qualified, but without accrued rights, shall be registered in Group Three. Each applicant for  
employment shall be required to furnish such data, records, names of Employers and length of  
employment and licenses as may be deemed necessary, and each applicant shall complete such  
forms or registration as shall be submitted to him. Applicants for employment shall also list any  
Special skills they may possess.  
### 10.2 LOCAL UNION HIRING HALL  
10.2.1. Each Local Union signatory to this Agreement shall maintain its own individual Hiring Hall  
List Dispatch System in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement whereby the same may  
function in harmony with like systems of other Teamster Locals and the intent of this Agreement.  
Among other things, priority rights entitle a Teamster, according to the categories hereinafter set  
forth, to a preference in hiring or rehire after termination or layoff. A Teamster may not be  
registered on a hiring hall list of more than one (1) Local Union at the same time. A violation of  
this rule shall result in exclusion from all hiring hall lists for six (6) months. In the event that a  
Teamster desires to be placed on the hiring hall lists of another Local Union signatory to this  
Agreement, he shall register with such Local Union in accordance with its rules and regulations  
and be placed in the same group in which he established eligibility prior to transfer.  
10.2.2. Registration or re-registration in the Local's Hiring Hall List Dispatch System shall be  
accepted at any time during customary office hours.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 23  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 10.3. DEFINITIONS/REQUIREMENTS  
10.3.1. All Teamsters, upon appropriate registration for employment, shall be hired and/or  
rehired in strict accordance with their total length of service with any Employer or combination of  
Employers, under the terms of this or predecessor agreements, as follows:  
(a) GROUP ONE- Teamsters who have worked an aggregate of 500 hours during  
the two (2) year period immediately preceding registration.  
(b) GROUP TWO- Teamsters who have worked an aggregate of less than 500  
hours during the two (2) year period immediately preceding registration. Persons who have  
successfully completed the Teamster Training Program shall be entitled to registration in  
Group II category.  
(c) GROUP THREE- Teamsters and other registrants for employment that have  
accumulated no hours during the two (2) year period immediately preceding registration.  
10.3.2. All registrants shall be positioned in Groups, with priorities according to date and time of  
registration.  
10.3.3. The health and welfare records of the Teamsters Construction Industry Welfare Trust,  
established by this and predecessor agreements must be used, to the exclusion of all other  
methods, in determining hours for proper groupings of all registrants as well as all hours needed  
for personal calls.  
10.3.4. "Employers" under this paragraph mean, (1) any Employer party to this Agreement, (2)  
an out-of-town Employer who adopts or works under this Agreement and contributes to the  
Health and Welfare and Pension plan, and (3) any Employer who employs Teamsters under the  
terms of this Agreement and is a contributing Employer within the meaning of the Health and  
Welfare and Pension Plans.  
10.3.5. Upon request of an Employer for Teamsters the Union shall, in writing, dispatch qualified  
and competent registrants in the manner hereinafter specified:  
(a) Registrants shall be dispatched from Group One until Group One has been  
exhausted.  
(b) Thereafter, so long aS Group One remains exhausted, registrants shall be  
dispatched from Group Two until Group Two has been exhausted.  
(c) Thereafter, so long as Groups One and Two remain exhausted, registrants shall  
be dispatched from Group Three.  
(d) Dispatches may not be issued unless the prospective employee has registered  
and been properly assigned to either Group One, Two or Three. Consistent therewith:  
### 10.4. SPECIAL REQUESTS  
10.4.1. Requests by Employers for Teamsters to act aS supervisors, foremen, or dispatchers  
Shall be honored without regard to the requested Teamster's group or position. However, after  
employment, such individuals shall not perform bargaining unit work until they have worked for a  
period of thirty (30) working days. Also requests by Employers for Teamsters with special skills  
and qualifications to work pursuant thereto shall be honored, provided, such Teamster must work  
exclusively for a period of ten (10) working days before they may otherwise drive. Further, a  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 24  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
violation of the provisions of this subsection shall render that Teamster subject at the Union's  
request to termination and thereafter, such Teamster shall be ineligible for dispatch to that  
Employer for a period of six (6) months notwithstanding other provisions of this Appendix. Hours  
accumulated during the first thirty (30) working days, or ten (10) days as the case may be  
pursuant to the provisions of this subsection, shall not be counted under the provisions of 10.4.4.  
of this section.  
10.4.2. Bona fide requests by the Employers for Teamsters with special skills and abilities will be  
honored. The dispatcher shall refer persons possessing such skills and abilities in order in which  
their names appear on the out-of-work list.  
10.4.3. If the Employer is obliged to employ a percentage of females and minorities pursuant to  
Federal, State or local laws, females and minorities with the requisite skills and abilities may be  
referred in the order in which their names appear on the out-of-work list without regard to their  
relative position on the out-of-work list to non-minorities.  
10.4.4. A request by an Employer for a particular Teamster previously employed by the  
requesting Employer within the geographical area of this and/or predecessor agreements is  
allowed.  
### 10.5. DISPATCH REQUIREMENT  
10.5.1. An employee entitled to a personal call who accepts same without first obtaining a  
dispatch, must, following proper notice from the Local Union, forthwith secure a dispatch.  
Otherwise, the employee shall suffer immediate removal from the job and shall thereafter be  
ineligible for dispatch to that Employer for the next following six (6) month period. However, an  
employee is not entitled to accept a personal call without first obtaining a dispatch if the personal  
call is issued for work within the jurisdiction of a Local Union other than that in which the  
employee last worked. EXCEPTION: No new dispatch is required when equipment is  
transferred pursuant to Section 10.8 of this Appendix.  
10.5.2. provided in this Appendix, all Teamsters whether new hires or re-hires or re-  
calls after termination or layoff must be dispatched, by written dispatch slip, through the Union  
Hiring Hall List Dispatch System. Hours accumulated without a proper dispatch slip may not be  
considered for personal calls or grouping qualifications.  
10.5.3. Teamsters or others employed contrary to the hiring provisions of this Agreement shall  
be deemed to be unlawfully employed. In such event, the Employer may be given written notice  
(with a copy to the AGC of Washington) of the violation and, if upon expiration of that working  
day, the violation is allowed to continue the Union may take economic action commensurable  
with or in lieu of the Settlement of Disputes Article of this Agreement. Further, after termination of  
any unlawfully employed Teamster, that Teamster shall, thereafter be ineligible for dispatch to the  
Employer involved for a period of six months, notwithstanding other provisions of this Appendix.  
10.5.4. If the Employer involved is a J oint Venture, the six (6) month restriction shall also apply to  
all parties thereto regardless of whether or not they continue as parties in said J oint Venture.  
### 10.6. REJ ECTION/TERMINATION/LAY-OFF  
10.6.1. Any registrant rejected by the Employer shall be restored to his place on the list for his  
Group. When a registrant is referred for employment and is actually on a job for no less than five  
(5) days nor for a period in excess of twenty-one (21) days (dependant on the Local Union's  
Hiring Hall Rules), such registrant's name shall be removed from the list.  
   
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 29  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
10.6.2. When his employment terminates, he shall be registered at the bottom of the appropriate  
GROUP list on which he is entitled to be registered. If a registrant, upon being referred for  
employment in regular order, refuses two (2) dispatches, such registrants name shall be removed  
from the list for the remainder of that month and then placed at the bottom of the GROUP list on  
which he is registered.  
10.6.3 When a registrant has been rejected or laid off as unsatisfactory by two (2) Employers or  
has been discharged for cause by at least three (3) Employers within a twelve (12) month period,  
he may be denied further use of construction registration of the Hiring Hall, subject to review by  
the Hiring Hall Review Committee. The Hiring Hall Review Committee may after investigation  
require that the skills be certified by the Teamsters/AGC Training center as a  
condition of his continued registration.  
10.6.4. In the event that the referral facilities maintained by the Union are unable to fill the  
requisition of an Employer for Teamsters within a twenty-four (24) hour period after such  
requisition is made by the Employer (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays excepted), the Employer  
may employ applicants directly at the job site. In such an event, the Employer will notify the  
Union of the names and dates of such hirings within twenty-four (24) hours of such hirings.  
### 10.7. J OINT VENTURE  
10.7.1. Where Employers engage in a J oint Venture, Teamsters that have been employed for  
eight (8) or more working hours by any of the joint ventures, within the two (2) year period  
immediately preceding, may be transferred to the joint venture job or called for by name by any of  
the joint ventures. EXCEPTION: Teamsters under a six (6) month restriction, pursuant to the  
provisions of Section 10.3.5 or 10.5.3, of this Appendix shall concurrent with said six (6) month  
restriction, also be ineligible for employment by any J oint Venture in which the Employer involved  
in the restriction is a party.  
10.7.2. If an Employer controls, or holds common ownership of separate corporations, the  
Employer is considered the Employer for the purpose of transferring men to and from such  
corporation payrolls.  
10.7.3. Anyone registered on the Hiring Hall list must be the holder of an up-to-date Commercial  
Driver's License when required by the law for the type or types of trucks they are qualified to  
drive.  
### 10.8. TRANSFER RULES  
10.8.1. Teamsters dispatched and working as such under and pursuant to the provisions of this  
Agreement may transfer equipment from one Local Union's jurisdiction to another and continue to  
work and need not transfer Locals. However, after six (6) consecutive months he or she will  
transfer into the Local that has area jurisdiction.  
10.8.2. The Chapters agree to continue to recognize the Union as the sole and exclusive  
collective bargaining representative of employees over whom the Union has jurisdiction subject to  
rights of employees prescribed in Section 9(2) of the Labor-Management Relations Act as  
amended.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 26  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 10.9. REFERRAL RULES  
10.9.1. The Union and the Employers agree that the referral of Teamsters shall be on the  
following basis:  
(a) Selection of applicants for referral to jobs shall be on a non-discriminatory basis and  
Shall not be based on, or in any way affected by, union membership, bylaws, rules,  
regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect of or obligation of union  
membership, policies or requirements, or in any way affected by race, color, sex, age or  
creed,  
(b) The Employer retains the right to reject any job applicant referred by the Union for  
cause but shall not discriminate because of membership or non-membership in the Union  
or because of race, color, sex, age or creed.  
(c) The Union and the Employer shall post, in places where notices to all employees and  
applicants for employment are customarily posted, all provisions relating to the functioning  
of the hiring provision of this Agreement.  
### 10.10. MEMBERSHIP REQUIREMENT  
10.10.1. All employees covered by this Agreement shall be required, as a condition of  
employment to apply for and become members of, and to maintain membership in the Union  
within nine (9) days following the beginning of their employment or the effective date of this  
cause, whichever is later.  
10.10.2. The Union recognizes its obligation and therefore assumes full responsibility to every  
employee discharged under the provisions of the paragraph last above set out as a result of a  
written request from the Union to the Employer provided that the only reason for discharge is as  
to the timely tendering of normal initiation fees and dues.  
10.11. RE-OPENER  
10.11.1. Either party to this Agreement shall have the right to reopen negotiations pertaining to  
Union recognition and hiring procedures by giving the other party thirty (30) days written notice  
when there is reason to believe that the laws pertaining thereto have changed by Congressional  
amendments, government regulations, or court decision.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 27  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 11, APPENDIX 3 - PRIVATE WORKS LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### 11.1. GENERAL PROVISIONS  
11.1.1. Effective the first day of June 1, 2007 by and between the Western Washington  
Teamsters, hereinafter referred to as the Union, and the undersigned Employers, hereinafter  
referred to as the Employer:  
11.1.2. This Letter of Understanding shall cover all privately funded projects involved in the  
construction, alteration, or repair of buildings and structures.  
11.1.3. The wage rates covered by the Letter of Understanding shall be equal to ninety percent  
(90%) of the wage rates established in the Western Washington AGC of Washington/Teamsters  
Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
11.1.4. The purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to attempt to retain or recapture projects.  
### 11.2. PRIVATE WORKS WAGE SCHEDULE  
### WAGE SCALES*  
Class IV $ 19.52 $ 20.85 $ 22.16  
$26.16 | $27.86 | $29.51  
Mechanic Helper $ 25.60 $ 27.26 $ 28.89  
Class Ill $ 23.56 $ 25.11 $ 22.16  
   
* These rates are subject to change based upon Health and Security deferrals outlined in  
Appendix 1.  
### 11,3. PROJ ECT APPLICATION/LIMITATIONS  
11.3.1.. This Letter of Understanding shall cover projects valued at $3 million or less, based upon  
the value of work performed by a contractor signatory to this agreement.  
11.3.2. The Private Works Addendum is clarified to include:  
(a) Work within private commercial pits.  
(b) The delivery of aggregates processed and unprocessed to all private and  
public projects from any private commercial source.  
11.3.3. Private Works exclusions are:  
(a) The delivery of hot mix asphalt or ready-mix concrete to predetermined  
wage rate projects.  
(b) The delivery of aggregates processed and unprocessed from portable  
crushers set up for specific predetermined wage rate projects. There shall be no  
Staging on projects to allow for the reduced wage rate.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 28  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 11,4. ADOPTION OF MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT.  
11.4.1. The parties agree to be bound by, to adopt and incorporate by reference this Letter of  
Understanding, and shall be a part of the Master Labor Agreement, except as provided in this  
Letter of Understanding.  
11.4.2. Notification: The Employer shall notify the affected Local Union when work is to be  
performed under this Letter of Understanding prior to starting work. Failure to notify the Union  
will result in the payment of 100% wage rates until the Union is properly notified in writing.  
11.4.3. The Employer and Union agree that when the Teamsters are working on the same  
payroll as the Operators, Laborers or Carpenters who are receiving a higher rate of pay as  
provided in their Private Works Addendum, then those Teamsters will also receive the equivalent  
rate. This understanding will in no way affect the provisions of Section 8.2 of the Master Labor  
Agreement.  
11.4.5. At no time will apprentices' wage rates exceed those of journeymen for the same  
classification of work.  
11.4.6. Fringe Benefits: Fringe Benefits shall be 100% of those listed in the Master Labor  
Agreement during the terms of this Agreement.  
### 11.5. J OINT LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE  
11.5.1. There shall be established a J oint Labor-Management Committee to adopt procedures  
ror implementation of this Private Works Letter of Understanding. The Committee shall consist  
(a) Two (2) members of the Union negotiating committee;  
(b) Two (2) members of the Employer negotiating committee.  
11.5.2. Meetings will be on a call basis.  
11.5.3. The Committee shall be empowered to:  
(a) Resolve disputes concerning compliance with this Letter of  
Understanding.  
(b) Monitor the non-union activity to determine the effectiveness of this  
Letter of Understanding in retaining private work.  
### 11.6. SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
11.6.1. In order to preserve work for the union members and make the Employers who become  
party to this Agreement more competitive in all private work projects, the Unions signatory to this  
Agreement and the Employers may mutually agree to put this Agreement into effect on projects  
higher than the coverage allowed in Section 1.3.  
11.6.2. In addition both parties may mutually put into effect special wages and conditions for  
Specific areas or projects for a specific period of time.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 29  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 2007-2010 TEAMSTERS/AGC OF WASHINGTON LABOR AGREEMENT  
### IN WITNESS WHEREOF THIS AGREEMENT HAS BEEN EXECUTED BY THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF  
### TEAMSTERS, AND THE AGC OF WASHINGTON, A CHAPTER OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF  
### AMERICA, INC., ON BEHALF OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUAL MEMBER FIRMS, WHO HAVE INDIVIDUALLY RATIFIED THIS  
### AGREEMENT AND HAVE FURTHER AUTHORIZED THE CHAPTER TO EXECUTE THE AGREEMENT ON THEIR BEHALF.  
### DATED THIS DAY OF J UNE , 2007  
### FOR THE UNION AGC OF WASHINGTON  
### BARRY G LUND, SECRETARY-I REASURER DOUGLAS A. PETERSON  
### TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL #38 DIRECTOR OF LABOR RELATIONS  
### RICHARD D. HICKS, SECRETARY-I REASURER MICHAEL LEE, AGC COMMITTEE CO-CHAIR  
### TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL #174 LAKESIDE INDUSTRIES  
### CHARLES W. EGGERT, SECRETARY-1I REASURER TIMOTHY TUCCI, AGC COMMITTEE CO-CHAIR  
### TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL #231 TUCCI & SONS  
### MIKE MAUERMANN, SECRETARY-1I REASURER  
### TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL #252  
### J OHN B. EMRICK, SECRETARY-TREASURER  
### TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL #313  
### KENNETH P. TROUP, SECRETARY-I REASURER  
### TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL #589  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 30  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 12. ADDENDUM 1 - SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM  
### 12.1. INTRODUCTION  
12.1.1. In accordance with the Substance Abuse Policy in the Carpenters, Cement Masons,  
Laborers, Operating Engineers and Teamsters Collective Bargaining Agreements, the parties  
hereby agree to the following Substance Abuse Program.  
### 12.2. TESTING OB) ECTIVES  
12.2.1. Prohibited Substances: A drug is defined as any substance which may affect mental or  
motor function including but not limited to illegal drugs, controlled substances, designer drugs,  
synthetic drugs and look-alike drugs. Alcohol is defined as any beverage or substance  
containing alcohol.  
12.2.2. Legal Drugs: The use of drugs which are lawfully obtained and properly used shall be  
permitted provided their use does not interfere with the individual's proper and safe work  
performance.  
12.2.3. Management will be responsible for all costs incurred for testing done at their request.  
12.2.4. Management will be responsible to provide training of their Supervision in problems of  
Substance abuse and to maintain a level of on-going training to enable their supervision to  
recognize behavior and conditions indicating potential substance abuse.  
### 12.3. PROCEDURE FOR SCREENING  
12.3.1. Employees will be tested within the first day of employment. If the test results are  
positive, the employee will be subject to immediate termination. (Note: Every effort will be made  
to schedule testing for the first day.) The employee will not be eligible for re-testing for the  
purpose of being dispatched to the project of the requesting Employer until thirty (30) days has  
elapsed.  
12.3.2. Employers who wish to test will be required to make arrangements for paying the pre-  
approved testing facility for all tests administered on potential employees.  
12.3.3. Testing shall be permitted only if all employees, including bargaining unit and non-  
bargaining unit personnel, are treated equally on a job by job basis. Failure of Management to  
adhere to this requirement will be grounds to cease testing for all employees for the duration of  
the project where offense took place, upon written notice from the Union. Upon request, the  
Employer will provide evidence of testing of non-bargaining personnel. Continuous employees  
constantly moving from job to job may be exempt from testing for every job, after initially being  
tested by the Employer. Long term employees that do not move from job to job will test at the  
Start of new jobs. There will be no annual test requirement beyond the scope of this agreement.  
12.3.4. Random testing shall be allowed under the following conditions: On-site testing will be  
allowed in accordance with Section 12.7. Procedures.  
12.3.5. Periodic lottery testing may occur if the random selection of employees is fair and  
impartial and shall not exceed 50% of the subject employees annually. The lottery method of  
employee selection for testing will be reviewed and accepted by the union representatives.  
12.3.6. Lottery testing must include both bargaining unit and non-bargaining unit employees.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 31  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
12.3.7. An employee that tests positive during a random test will be terminated and not eligible  
for re-hire for ninety (90) days.  
12.3.8. The Employer may, at its discretion, consider for re-hire, an employee who has been  
terminated as a result of failing his or her drug test, sooner than the ninety (90) day period  
described in this Section if said employee is satisfactorily participating in, or has completed, a  
Supervised and recognized rehabilitation program, and can perform his or her duties without risk  
of injury or harm to him/herself or others. See Agreement for Continuation of Employment.  
### 12.4. PROBABLE SUSPICION OR ACCIDENT INVOLVEMENT  
12.4.1. Probable suspicion means suspicion based on specific personal observations that the  
Employer representative can describe concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or breath  
odor of the employee. Probable suspicion must be documented at or near the time of the  
observation. Observation must be witnessed by two (2) individuals, one of whom must be a  
Supervisor that has actually observed the employee's behavior. Being in an accident or causing  
an accident may be sufficient to establish probable suspicion.  
12.4.2. Employees must report to the testing facility the use of medically authorized drugs and  
any over-the-counter drugs taken prior to testing.  
12.4.3. An employee consenting to the testing will be transported to the hospital or laboratory by  
Management. After test is completed, the employee will be transported back to his/her  
residence.  
12.4.4. If the test results are negative, the employee will immediately be reinstated in his/her  
previous position, with full back pay based on a project's regular work schedule, and no further  
action will be taken.  
12.4.5. Should the test results be positive, the Employer may terminate the employee without  
pay except for actual time worked on the day that the test was conducted. Employees have the  
right to obtain test results from the testing facility.  
12.4.6. Under no circumstances will either Employer or the Union be informed beyond a negative  
or positive outcome of any testing conducted.  
12.4.7. If any employee tests positive, he/she will not be eligible for re-dispatch to the project of  
the requesting Employer until ninety (90) days has elapsed and successfully passed the drug  
test. The Employer may, at its discretion, consider for re-hire, an employee who has been  
terminated as a result of failing his or her drug test, sooner than the ninety (90) day period  
described in this Section if said employee Is satisfactorily participating in, or has completed, a  
Supervised and recognized rehabilitation program, and can perform his or her duties without risk  
of injury or harm to him/herself or others. See Agreement for Continuation of Employment.  
### 12.5. CONSENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROCEDURES  
12.5.1. Employer shall inform an employee that a Behavior Report Form has been completed as  
per 12.4.1. or they have been involved in an industrial accident, and will be required to submit to  
a drug/alcohol test.  
12.5.2. Give employee(s) copies of Behavior Report Form and/or a copy of the accident report  
indicating employee(s)’ involvement in the reportable on-the-job accident as per 12.4.1. Explain  
that because of the observation or report of the employee's behavior, it is necessary to verify the  
employee's physical capability at that point in time. Ask the employee whether he/she is aware of  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 32  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
any medical condition which may cause the behavior or if he/she has been taking any  
prescription or non-prescription medication which may affect safe and/or efficient job  
performance.  
12.5.3. Complete a Clinic Consent Form. In each and every case, read the form to the employee  
prior to obtaining the employee's signature authorizing the test and release of positive or negative  
test results. No changes are to be made on the consent form. Both the observing witnesses  
Shall complete the Behavior Report Form. In completing the Behavior Report Form, the  
witnesses Shall be as accurate and detailed as possible, recording their observations of the  
employee's behavior which led to their decision or require an exam/test. The witnesses shall  
State what they actually observed, but refrain from making statements about possible causes of  
the behavior or making judgmental conclusions.  
If the employee refuses to promptly take the exam/test or sign a consent form:  
1. Make it clear to the employee that the request to sign the form and take the  
exam/test is a direct order.  
2. Ask the employee if he/she understands the order. (If the employee responds  
that he/she does not understand the order, explain your order again.)  
3. Explain to the employee that failure to comply with the order constitutes  
insubordination which will result in termination.  
4, \Issue a second direct order to sign the form and take the exam/test.  
5. Ifthe employee refuses, inform the employee that he/she will be terminated.  
12.5.4. The Employer shall arrange for transportation and accompany the employee to the  
exam/test site. Employer shall notify the Union that the employee is being transported for an  
exam/test, and shall transport the employee to the exam/test site. Upon arrival, the Employer will  
complete the necessary form(s). The employee will be tested by laboratory personnel or  
physician. At the conclusion of the examination and test(s), Employer shall transport the  
employee in accordance with 12.4.3.  
### 12.6. TYPE OF TEST  
12.6.1 All alcohol testing to utilize the alcohol dehydrogenizes method.  
12.6.2. Drug testing is to be initially conducted by the EMIT test. There shall be no blood testing.  
12.6.3. All positive EMIT/ADH tests will be verified by a GC/MS (Gas Chromatography/Mass  
Spectrophotometer) test. Disciplinary action against an employee may only be taken if the  
GC/MS is positive at a level exceeding the levels in the Federal Regulation issued by the  
Department of Health and Human Resources/Department of Transportation. Any changes in the  
Federal Regulations would be re-negotiated prior to inclusion.  
### 12.7. TESTING PROCEDURAL SAFEGUARDS  
12.7.1. The Employer and the Union will select the laboratory and sampling procedures. Test  
procedures will meet the DHSS guidelines for testing, chain of custody, will provide quality control  
procedures, and assure the maximum in confidentiality.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 33  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
12.7.2. In the event of positive test results, the employee may request, within ten (10) days, a  
Sample of his/her urine specimen from the medical facility for the purpose of retesting at a  
qualified drug testing laboratory. Chain of custody for this sample shall be maintained between  
management and the employee's designated qualified laboratory. Retesting shall be performed  
at the employee's expense. In the event of conflicting results, the Employer may require a third  
test. Should the results of this test be positive, the employee may be terminated. In the event of  
negative test results on the retests, the Employer shall pay for the retests and any lost wages as  
per Section 12.4.4.  
12.7.3. Any urine samples that are determined to be chemically altered shall be considered  
positive. If a urine sample cannot be analyzed because of dilution, a retest, at the cost of the  
Employer, will be authorized. A second diluted sample shall be considered positive. A positive  
test or refusal to authorize a retest will be grounds for termination.  
12.7.4. An employee shall have the right to use the grievance/arbitration system to challenge any  
aspect of the testing procedures.  
12.7.5. Any employee who successfully challenges a positive result shall be reimbursed for the  
costs associated with challenging the test.  
12.7.6. The Employer and the Union reserve the right to require additional safeguards that serve  
the best interest of the employee or the Program, subject to mutual agreement.  
12.7.7_ The Employer shall pay for actual time to and from the testing facility, and all time spent  
during the testing process.  
### 12.8. VOLUNTARY ADMISSIONS  
12.8.1. Should an employee voluntarily admit to a substance abuse problem, the employee will  
not be terminated. The employee will be suspended without pay until an evaluation has been  
made by a State certified rehabilitation program. Should this evaluation require participation in a  
rehabilitation program, the employee will be permitted to return to work only if employee signs an  
"Agreement for Continuation of Employment."  
### 12.9. HOLD HARMLESS CLAUSE  
12.9.1. The Employer shall indemnify and hold the Union harmless against any and all claims,  
demands, suits or liabilities that may arise out of the Employer's application of the Substance  
Abuse Program.  
### 12.10 ANNUAL REVIEW  
12.10.1. The Substance Abuse Program shall be subject to annual review by the  
Labor/Management Committee, and that changes adopted by the US DOT and/or Federal Motor  
Carrier Safety Regulations will supersede language to the contrary contained in this Addendum.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 34  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### 12.11. URINE DRUGS OF ABUSE THRESHOLDS  
Substance Initial Test Confirmation Test  
### EMIT/ADH Test GC/MS Test  
*Alcohol (Ethanol) Higher than 0.02 g/dl Higher than 0.02 g/dl  
Amphetamines  
Amphetamine 1000 ng/ml 500 ng/ml  
Methamphetamine 1000 ng/ml 500 ng/ml  
(Specimen must also  
contain amphetamine at  
a concentration of  
greater than 200  
ng/.mL.  
THC (Marijuana) 50 ng/ml  
Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol- 15 ng/ml  
9-carboxylic acid  
Cocaine Metabolite  
Benzoylecgonine 300 ng/ml 150 ng/ml  
Opiate Metabolites  
Codeine 2000 ng/ml 2000 ng/ml  
Morphine 2000 ng/ml 2000 ng/ml  
6-acetylmorphine 10 ng/ml  
Test for 6-AM in the  
specimen. Conduct this  
only when specimen  
contains morphine ata  
concentration greater  
than 2000 ng/mL.  
Phencyclidine (PCP) 25 ng/ml 25 ng/ml  
* Starred items cannot be detected at the lower recommended level. They first show up at the higher  
defined level due to the current sensitivity of the testing procedures.  
Thresholds Amended. 2007  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 39  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### BEHAVIOR REPORT FORM  
When requesting a Performance Impairment Exam, the Management representative must complete this  
form and attach it to the "Clinic Consent Form." Please describe the behavior or reported behavior that  
causes you to request an exam of:  
Employee  
Witness  
(Use reverse side if additional space is required to record behaviors in areas outlined below.)  
### SPEECH  
### DEXTERITY  
### STANDING  
### WALKING  
### J UDGMENT  
### DECISION-MAKING  
### APPEARANCE  
### (EYES, CLOTHING, ETC.)  
Witness  
(Use reverse side if additional space is required to record behaviors in areas outlined above.)  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 36  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### CLINIC CONSENT FORM  
Employee  
Employer  
Pre-employment  
Annual  
Injury on the job  
For cause  
I] EI Ed  
Other:  
Results to be sent to: J obsite Contact  
Medical Consent: | consent to the collection of urine samples by the testing facility staff as  
requested by the Employer to determine the presence of alcohol and/or drugs, if any.  
| understand that any urine samples that are chemically altered shall be considered positive. |  
understand that if my sample is diluted, a retest at the cost of my Employer will be authorized. |  
understand that a second diluted sample will result in a positive result.  
Authorization to release information: | authorize the testing facility to release a statement  
that the EMIT/GC-MS test result is positive or negative. | understand and agree that the medical facility  
will release to the designated representative only the pass/fail results of such testing. It will not release  
the results of this testing procedure to anyone else without my authorization.  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 37  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
| understand that my alteration of this consent form, refusal to consent to or cooperate fully with the  
collection of urine samples, or my refusal to authorize the release of the results to my Employer/Union  
constitutes insubordination and is grounds for termination.  
Please list all drugs that you are currently taking including over-the-counter medications:  
Date: Employee Signature:  
Time: Witness Signature:  
   
### FOR CLINIC USE ONLY: VERIFICATION OF PHYSICIAN, REGISTERED NURSE,  
### QUALIFIED TECHNICIAN OR COLLECTION PERSON  
| have received a urine sample from the Employee named above on  
at. A.M./P.M.anddelivered the sample  
Collectonby: eee  
eee  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 38  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement  
### AGREEMENT FOR CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT  
As part of the employee's commitment to remain free of alcohol and drug use, it is understood  
that the employee's continuation of employment by the Company is based upon and constrained by the  
following terms:  
1.  
The employee must submit to evaluation of potential alcohol or drug problems by a  
recognized and certified evaluation professional.  
The employee must agree to participate in all rehabilitation treatment recommended by  
the counselor performing the evaluation.  
The employee must authorize the evaluation counselor to provide a copy of the  
rehabilitation treatment recommendations to the Company.  
The rehabilitation facility must agree to closely monitor the employee's attendance at all  
required sessions. The rehabilitation facility shall notify the Company of the employee's  
failure to satisfactorily attend treatment sessions. Failure of the employee to adhere to  
the program for treatment will subject the employee to discharge.  
In the event the employee is absent from work during the period of rehabilitation  
treatment, he or she may be subject to alcohol or drug testing.  
During the period of rehabilitation treatment as outlined by the evaluation counselor, the  
Company will test the employee for alcohol and drug use on a random basis. Such  
random tests shall not exceed six random tests during this period. However, such  
random tests are in addition to any tests that may be necessitated on a for cause basis  
as defined in the Company's Alcohol and Drug Program or as part of their program to  
monitor compliance with their treatment program. The employee will be subject to  
discharge if he/she refuses to submit to testing or if the employee tests positive for drugs  
or alcohol during this time period.  
The Agreement is voluntarily entered into by the employee and in consideration for continuation of  
employment; the above conditions are hereby agreed to.  
Employee  
Company  
TEAMSTERS LOCALS 38, 174, 231, 252, 313, 589/AGC OF WASHINGTON 39  
2007-2012 Collective Bargaining A greement