Cornell University  
ILR School  
   
BLS Contract Collection — Metadata Header  
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School,  
Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.  
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the  
digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent  
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.  
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see  
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/  
Or contact us:  
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853  
607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu  
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -  
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/2/)  
Title: Painting & Decorating Contractors Association and Painting District Council  
2, International Union of Painters & Allied Trades (PAT), AFL-CIO (2000)  
K#: 8996  
Employer Name: Painting & Decorating Contractors Association  
Location: MO St. Louis  
Union: Painting District Council 2, International Union of Painters & Allied Trades  
### (PAT), AFL-CIO  
Local:  
SIC: 1721 NAICS: 23832  
Sector: P Number of Workers: 2200  
Effective Date: 09/01/00 Expiration Date: 08/31/05  
   
Number of Pages: 166 Other Years Available: N  
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of  
the Catherwood website - http://www..ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/  
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/  
K87%  
A 100 worker  
L3 py K  
{20 pe the  
### AGREEMENT  
between  
Painters District Council No. 2  
and  
Painting Contractors  
from  
September 1, 2000  
to  
Midnight, August 31, 2005  
   
### INDEX  
Page No.  
St. Louis Painters and Decorators Joint Board,  
### OPPICETS  
Administration ........  
we  
Unnion Recognition  
nn as vans ve  
EMplOyMenh  
Non-Discrimination  
Management Rights ................ das nace SIAN teil we  
Employer’s Responsibility ...  
Substance Abuse Testing, Prevention and Rehabilitation .  
ho  
Section  
Section  
Section  
Section  
Section  
Section  
Section  
Section  
### YN  
OA tA tn ew DD  
Section  
—  
o  
nN A  
Section  
te  
RQ —  
  
Section  
### IMSUPATICE 0  
Wage and Fringe Benefits Formula 8  
Wage atid Fenzé its sn onan 9  
Statement of Earnings and Deductions LQ  
Hours Of Work LI  
Overtime .. LL  
Section Saturday, Sunday and Holidays. 12  
Section hes seuss TL  
Section 20. Time RE Err ETRE TOA Le  
Section 21. Stewards DZ  
Section 22.  Poremalt 12  
Section 23. Tools and Equipment DS  
Section 24, ren NEON led  
Section 25. Discharging Employees US  
Section 26, Waiting Time 13  
Section 27. Travel Expense .............. RAM LE  
Section 28. Employers Performing Work i in ‘Other Localities 14  
Section 29. Spray and Blasting Regulations and Lead Abatement Regulations 14  
Section 30. Wages, High Work.. LO  
Section 31. Pre-Apprentice and Regulations 16  
Section 32. Summer Student Regulations EP  
Section 33. Displaying of Signs DD  
Section 34. Accidents to LD  
Section 35. New Material 17  
Section 36. Fringe Benefit Funds, Administrative E Dues 5 Check- Off a and d Industry Fund .. ceva 18  
Section 37. Welfare Fund LO  
Section 38. Pension Fund .. 18  
Section 39. Administrative Dues s Check-Off.. LO  
Section 40. Vacation Plan .. LO  
Section 41. Apprenticeship ‘anh Journeyman Training PIT sa ants OP  
Section 42. Industry Fund.. TN Ai pp oI LP  
Section 43, Labor Management Cooperation Fund LS  
Section 44. Contributions to Joint Board 19  
25. “Terni ore IER eens 1D  
Section  
  
Section  
—  
>  
Section  
Section  
Section  
Section  
tee peek  
we  
### ALPHABETIZED INDEX  
Page No.  
VO EGS 5 1,2  
  
Administrative Dues Check-Off and Industry Fund. 18  
Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Fund. 1D  
Contributions to Joint Board ........ yg os RETA PEE EAGER Sm THERA 44 Me 19  
Discharging Employees enw 13  
Displaying of Signs ............. SEAN NAMES mes sas eA er ee UAE AEN LT  
### ccs SOHN PANNE UH 4  
Employers Performing Work in. Other ns 14  
Emptoyer's nee noses Kenn  
cess ones ORE NA ROTTS A  
sien pat 5 Fess os means gy Shs 12  
Fringe Benefit Funds, Administrative Dues Check-Off and Industry Fund 18  
Holidays commer 12  
Hours Of Work DL  
Industry pea somes creas arcu sums owes sour 19  
### INSUTANCE 8  
Labor Management Cooperation Fund (LMCF) . 19  
aye 6  
NEW cares sca ince ESIC SITES SEA EER ARI V7  
xa ces eons 6  
2  
{ sob etre eos ene Lt  
### PCMSION FUNG 18  
Pre-Apprentice and Apprentice Regulations 1G  
St. Louis Painters and. Décorators Joint Board, MiG, me 2  
Saturday, Sunday and Holidays a awa 12  
Spray and Blasting Regulations and Lead Abatement Regulations 14  
Statement of Earnings and DEdUCtiONS spines seven aa need tones din 10  
I TEES YN mewn Le  
Substance Abuse Testing, Prevention and Rehabilitation 8  
Student Summer Regulations mom mans ne meer 17  
sexe sess ee Lana Fee 19  
Tite <n cane rsnne Le  
Fools and Equipment ie 53005505 495010 LS  
Transportation Of Materials LS  
Travel EXpPe nse. nid 108 RATES) VE  
Union 5 sa ke saa So RODENT MNO . 35  
Security: hie emma PORK Ene 5  
Wacatiots Plan mares 1D  
Wage and Fringe Benefits A AMOUMLS a  
Wage and Fringe Benefits Formula spre ERENT 8  
Wages, High Work sa Senos vas 16  
Waiting Tite 1S  
Welfare 18  
  
|| —  
### AGREEMENT  
between  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL No. 2  
of the  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF PAINTERS  
### AND ALLIED TRADES, AFL-CIO  
and  
This Agreement is entered into between District Council] No. 2, of the International Union of Painters and Allied  
Trades, AFL-CIO, to be known hereinafter as the “Union” and  
i (name of Employer to be  
inserted) to be known hereinafter as the “Employer”, both of St. Louis, Missouri and Vicinity.  
The geographic jurisdiction of District Council #2 shall be as follows: St. Louis (City), St. Louis County, St.  
Charles County, Jefferson County, Warren County, Franklin County, Lincoln County, Pike County, Ralls County,  
Marion County, Lewis County, Clark County, Washington County, Reynolds County, Perry County, Wayne County,  
Cape Girardeau County, Butler County, New Madrid County, St. Francis County, Iron County, Shannon County,  
Bollinger County, Oregon County, Stoddard County, Pemiscot County, Ste. Genevieve County, Madison County,  
Carter County, Scott County, Ripley County, Mississippi County, Dunklin County, Audrain County, Adair County,  
Boone County, Callaway County, Chariton County, Cole County, Gasconade County, Howard County, Knox County,  
Linn County, Macon County, Monroe County, Mongomery County, Osage County, Putnam County, Randolph County,  
Schuyler County, Scotland County, and Sullivan County and the City of Boonville, Mo., Camden County, Crawford  
County, Dent County, Laclede County, Maries County, Miller County, Phelps County, Pulaski County, Texas County,  
and other counties and such areas as assigned by the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades. Sign and  
Pictorjal Painters, Local #774 - has jurisdiction in the Illinois counties of: Pike, Calhoun, Greene, Jersey, Macoupin,  
Montgomery, Fayette, Madison, Bond, St. Clatr, Clinton, Monroe, Washington. Randolph, Perry, Union, Franklin,  
Jackson, Williamson, Johnson, Alexander, and Pulaski. Territorial jurisdiction may be altered at any time by  
the General Executive Board in accordance with the General Constitution.  
Due to the expanded geographic jurisdiction of District #2 the parties agree that when the area Agreements of  
Local Union #1185, Local Union #1265 and Local Union #1292 expire, every effort will be made to incorporate  
those agreements into this Collective Bargaining Agreement understanding that economic conditions may  
not be the same in those areas.  
The Union is herewith recognized as the exclusive bargaining representative of all employees covered by this  
Agreement.  
The Employer expressly agrees that the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America, Chapter #2 affiliated  
with the Finishing Contractors of America (FCA), (hereinafter referred to as “PDCA”) will represent the Employer  
for al] collective bargaining purposes during the term of this Agreement and for any renewal or subsequent  
Agreements, specifically including any and all negotiations with the Union for any renewal or subsequent  
Agrcements, unless the Employer serves timely and unequivocal notice otherwise in accordance with the  
provisions of applicable law.  
Jurisdiction  
The jurisdiction of work covered by this agreement shall be as follows, notwithstanding any special agreements  
established by P.D.C. #2 with another trade performing work within the geographical jurisdiction of P.D.C. #2:  
Ail drywall taping and painting of residences, buildings, structurcs, industrial and manufacturing plants, ware-  
houses, tanks, towers, bridges, light and highway poles, scenic and murals, parking lots and highway striping,  
playgrounds and airport runways, decorating textures on all surfaces, foams, seamless and tile-like coatings or other  
materials used in various branches of the trade, and the cleaning and bleaching of all interior walls, ceilings, floors,  
  
air shafts, ovens, tanks and surfaces with liquid, steam, sandblast, waterblast, air blow and vacuum, with chemical  
treated cloths, soft brushes, wire brushes, sponges and soap and water. The polishing of all metals. The specialty  
cleaning of automobile factories, industrial plants and breweries, (referred to as deep cleaning), and exte-  
rior walls and surfaces with liquid, steam, sandblast, waterblast, any other process.  
The application of all wall and ceiling covering, muslin and canvas where decorative or preparatory as an integral  
part of the finish, the removal of old wall and ceiling covering by whatever means and such preparations as  
necessary.  
The applying or removing of paints, pigments, extenders, primers, clear pigments, binders, thinners and dryers,  
primer and sealers, oil paints and enamels, chemical and cpoxy coatings, water colors and emulsions, clear  
coatings, waxes, stains, mastics, cement enamels and other special coatings, plastics, adhesives, coating and  
sheet rubber and other linings, oils, varnishes, watercolors and al! work relating to the preparation of all surfaces  
and clean up.  
The painters shall maintain sand pots, spray pots and compressors and shall clean-up after completion of their  
work regardless, puttying, caulking of all areas to be finished, taping, patch plastering and filling of porous  
surfaces where a finished surface is applied shall be the work of members of P.D.C. #2 covered by this agrecment.  
The Union agrees that, if during the term of this Agreement it grants or allows to any other Employcr in the Painting  
and Decorating Construaction Industry on work described in the Jurisdiction Clause of this Agreement, any better  
wages or fringe bencfits than those set forth in this Agreement, such better wages, or fringe benefits shall be  
made available to Employers under this Agreement, and the Union shall immediately notify the PDCA of any  
such concession. It is expressly understood and agreed that the foregoing provision in this Section shall not  
apply to Industrial and Commercial Employers with maintenance agreements, such as Anheuser-Busch and May  
Co.; Sign and Scenic Artist Employers; two Painting Contractors in St. Charles and St. Charles County (Brinkley  
& Sons Painting, Inc. and Custom Painting and Drywall) who have traditionally negotiated agreements with the  
Union with less wages or fringe benefits, and during organizational situations where the employer(s) have  
contractually entered into agreements providing less wages or fringe benefits for a period of time not to exceed  
six months.  
### SECTION 1  
St. Louis Painters and Decorators  
Joint Board, Inc.  
A pro forma decree of incorporation has heretofore been issued by the Circuit Court of the City of St. Louis,  
Missouri, whereby the St. Louis Painters and Decorators Joint Board, Inc. (hereinafter “Joint Board”), was created  
a body politic and corporate under said name, and al} requirements of law for the creation of a pro forma decree  
corporation have heretofore been duly complied with. By-Laws for the governing of said corporation have  
been heretofore duly adopted and are in full force and effect.  
The control, direction, and management of the affairs of the Joint Board shall be in the hands of a Board of  
Directors which shall consist of eight (8) members of the Joint Board, four (4) of whom shall be members in good  
standing of the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America, Chapter No. 2 (PDCA), and remaining four (4)  
of whom shall be members in good standing of the Union. Such members of the Board of Directors shall be  
elected in the manner provided for in the By-Laws of the Joint Board. Each group shall elect two (2)  
alternates.  
### SECTION 2  
Officers  
The officers of the Joint Board shall be President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer elected by and from  
the members of the Joint Board.  
Two officers each shall be elected from the members of the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America,  
Chapter No. 2 (PDCA), and the Painters Distnct Council No. 2 who are members of the Joint Board.  
The term of office shall be for a period of one year.  
— 2  
### SECTION 3  
Administration  
The parties hereto, during the life of this Agreement, mutually agree that the Joint Board shall have and be  
vested with the following rights, powers and obligations:  
The Joint Board shall have the power to adjust and settle al! disputes, including safety disputes, and griev-  
ances that may arise under the terms of this Agreement, to resolve and determine all conflicts between the parties  
concerning the interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement, and to make and promulgate such rules and  
regulations as may be deemed necessary to give force and effect to the intent, purpose and meaning of this Agree-  
ment. The Joint Board shall also have the power to demand of the parties hereto the production of all records  
deemed relevant by the Joint Board to any case where an alleged violation of this Agreement is involved. With  
reference to the foregoing matters, the decisions, determinations, rulings and orders of a majority of the Joint Board  
shal] be final and binding on the parties to this Agreement.  
Additionally, the Joint Board shalf have the authority to authorize the appointment of a working job steward  
(to be placed by a Joint Board decision from outside the Empioyer’s work force by the Union), and to increase the  
requisite bonding, coverage of any employer who: |) has engaged in repeated violations of the collective  
bargaining agreement; and 2) has failed on two or more occasions to fully comply with a remedy (or remedies)  
prescribed by a ruling of the Joint Board.  
Should any dispute or grievance arise under any of the terms of this Agreement, the aggricved employce or  
employees must file the grievance in writing within fifteen (£5) calendar days of the occurrence of said grievance  
in order for the grievance to be timely. The Union must file the grievance within ninety (90) calendar days of  
knowledge of violation of the Agreement.  
When a grievance has been timely filed, the Employer’s Representative or Foreman and the District Council  
Representative shall meet jointly within five (5) working days after the grievance has been filed in writing to  
resolve the dispute. The Union will make a report of all grievances filed and their resolutions to the Joint Board.  
If the parties of the aforesaid District Council and the Employer do not succeed in the solution of the matter, then  
the issue may be submitted to the Joint Board to be processed in the manner set forth under this Section,  
If the Joint Board deadlocks or otherwise fails to decide any grievance or dispute, either party may, within 30  
days following said deadlock or failure, refer the grievance or dispute to arbitration by filing a written request  
with the Secretary of the Board, with copy served on the opposing party. On receipt of such notice, the Joint Board  
shall choose an arbitrator. If the Board cannot agree on an arbitrator, it shall promptly request a list of arbitrators  
from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. On receipt of such a list, the Chairman and Sccretary of the  
Board shall select an arbitrator from such list in accordance with the rules and regulations of the FMCS.  
The arbitrator shall have no authority to alter in any way the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and  
shall confine his decision to a determination of the facts and an interpretation and application of this  
Agreement.  
The cost of the arbitrator’s fee shall be borne equally by the parties.  
There shall be no strike or lockout over any grievance. However, and notwithstanding any contrary provisions of  
the Agreement, the Union may take economic action including, but not limited to, a strike or picketing against any  
Employer who: (1) fails or refuses to pay wages or make fringe benefit contributions in accordance with the  
Agreement; (2 ) fails to post or maintain in effect the Surety Bond required by this Agreement, or fails to provide  
such other security for the Employer’s wage and fringe benefit obligations as may be imposed by this Agreement;  
the Union may take economic action, including a strike, irrespective of whether an unsecured Employer is  
paying the additional contribution rates applicable to unsecured contractors; or (3) refuses to comply with a final  
and binding decision issued by the Joint Board or subsequent arbitration.  
Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, disputes concerning contributions for fringe  
benefits or administrative dues check-off, disputes concerning payment of wages and/or disputes concerning  
contributions to the Industry Fund need not be processed through the grievance procedure, and suit may be directly  
instituted.  
The by-laws of the Joint Board shall be incorporated into this agreement by reference.  
It shall not be a violation of this Agreement and it shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary action, in the  
event an employee refuses to enter upon any property involved in a lawful primary labor dispute or refuses to go  
through or work behind any lawful primary picket line of the Union party to this Agreement, including lawful picket  
lines of the Employer’s own place of business or jobs.  
### SECTION 4  
Employer  
Employers shall have a signed agreement with Painters District Counci] No. 2 or a signed Memorandum of  
Understanding, carry Workmen’s Compensation Insurance, Unemployment Insurance, pay Social Security on all  
employees in their employ, and make weekly contributions to the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Plan,  
Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Plan, Painters District Council! No. 2 Vacation Fund, Painters District  
Council No. 2 Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Fund, Administrative Dues Check-Off, Industry Advance-  
ment Fund and Labor Management Cooperation Fund (LMCF). Out of jurisdiction contractors will contribute to the  
applicable funds.  
Each individual employer must post security in the form of a Surety Bond, Letter of Credit, or Certificate of  
Deposit with Painters District No. 2 guaranteeing payment of wages, administrative dues check-off and  
payment of all contributions to any approved fringe benefit plan which may be obligatory as a result of this  
Agreement. The Employer must post the Surety Bond, Letter of Credit or Certificate of Deposit on the date on  
which this Agreement becomes effective.  
Bonds - Surety Bonds, Letters of Credit or Certificates of Deposit must be acceptable to the Union and the  
Trustees of the respective funds and shall be in accordance with the following schedule:  
] to 10 employces $10,000.00  
1lto1Semployces $15,000.00  
16 to 20 employees $20,000.00  
$25,000.00  
Over 25 employees $30,000.00  
Employer classification shall be determined by average weekly number of employees for the immediate previous  
year.  
If the Employer has no violation of payment on wages and fringe benefits during a five (5S) year period, the  
Employer would not be required to furnish security in excess of $10,000.00.  
Security requirements shall be bascd on immediate past five (5) years of experience to determine reduction  
qualification.  
Due Date - An Employer shall be considered delinquent in contributions and shall be assessed liquidated  
damages of 10% up to thirty (30) days of delinquency, after which liquidated damages of 1-1/2% shall be  
assessed compounded monthly until the full contribution is made. Payments to the funds shal! be due on the Friday  
after the previous pay week.  
The Employers signatory to this Agreement or Memorandum of Understanding shall not subcontract out work  
under the jurisdiction of the Painters District Council No. 2 to be done at the site of the construction, alteration,  
painting, or repair of a building, structure, or other work to any contractor or other person not signatory to this  
Agreement. No contractor shall be permitted to work for another signatory contractor as an employee  
performing work covered by this Agreement.  
### PRESERVATION OF WORK  
Section 1. To protect and preserve, for the employees covered by this Agreement, all work they have performed  
and all work covered by this Agreement, and to prevent any device or subterfuge to avoid the protection and  
preservation of such work, it is agreed as follows: If the Employer performs on-site construction work of the  
type covered by this Agreement, under its own name or the name of another, as a Corporation, company, partner-  
ship, or other business entity, including a joint venture, wherein the Employer, through its officers, directors,  
—4—  
partners, owners or stockholders, exercises directly or indirectly (through family members or otherwise),  
management control, or majority ownership, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be applicable to all  
such work.  
Section 2. Al! charges of violations of Section 1 of this Article shall be considered as a dispute and shall be  
processed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement on the handling of grievances and the final and  
binding resolution of disputes. As a remedy for violations of this Article, the Joint Trade Board or arbitrator shall be  
able, at the request of the Union, to require an Employer to pay 1) to affected employees covered by this  
Agreement, including registered applicants for employment, the equivalent of wages those employees have lost  
because of the violations, and 2) into the affected Joint Trust Funds to which this Agreement requires contributions,  
any delinquent contributions that resulted from the violations. The Joint Trade Board or Arbitrator under this  
Article only through arbitral, judicial, or governmental (for example, the National Labor Relations Board) channels  
Section 3. If, after an Employer has violated this Article, the Union and or the Trustees of one or more Joint Trust  
Funds to which this Agreement requires contributions institute legal action to enforce an award by an Arbitrator  
of the Joint Trade Board remedying such violations, or defend an action that seeks to vacate such award, the  
Employer shall pay any accountants’ and/or attorneys’ fees incurred by the Union and/or the Joint Trust Funds,  
plus cos! of litigation, that have resulted from such legal] action. This Section does not affect other remedies, whether  
provided by law or this Agreement, that may be available to the Union and/or Joint Trust Funds.  
No piece work will be required or permitted by employees covered by this Agreement.  
In any action instituted to recover fringe benefit contributions, wages, union dues or Industry Fund contributions,  
or to recover unpaid liquidated damages, the Employer shal] be obligated to pay reasonable attorney’s fees and  
reasonable accounting fees in addition to al! principal amounts due and in addition to other relief prescribed by  
law.  
### SECTION 5  
Union Recognition  
The Union is recognized as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all journeymen painters, tapers  
and drywall finishers, paper and wal] covering hangers, apprentices, pre-apprentices, summer help and  
working foremen employed by the Employer.  
The Employers agree to employ at least one non-contracting journeyman painter on all work.  
### SECTION 6  
Union Security  
It is understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that as a condition of continued employment all  
persons who are hereafter employed by the Employer in the unit which is subject to this Agreement shall  
become members of the Union on the eighth day after their employment or the execution date of this Agreement,  
whichever is the later; that the continued employment by the Employer in said unit of persons who are already  
members in good standing of the Union shal! be conditioned upon those persons continuing their payment of the  
periodic dues of the Union; and that the continued employment of persons who were in the employ of the Employer  
prior to the date of this Agreement and who are not now members of the Union, shail be conditioned upon those  
persons becoming members of the Union on the cighth day following the execution of this Agreement. The failure of  
any person to become a member of the Union at such required times shall obligate the Employer, upon written  
notice from the Union to such effect and to the further effect that Union membership was available to such person  
on the same terms and conditions generally available to other members, forthwith to discharge such person. Further-  
more, the failure of any person to maintain his union membership in good standing as required herein, upon written  
notice to the Employer by the Union to such effect, shall obligate the Employer to discharge such person.  
### SECTION 7  
Employment  
The parties recognize the fact to be that the Union’s knowledge and experience with the industry involved  
herein, together with the sources of competent manpower available to it, can be of assistance to the Employer in  
recruiting needed employees. It is therefore agreed that, whenever employees are to be hired, the Employer shall  
—5 —  
include the Union among other persons, firms, or corporations to be notified and shall afford the Union an  
opportunity to recommend job applicants. The Employer further agrces to give such member due consideration,  
consistent with the provisions of the National Labor Relations act, as amended.  
The aforesaid notification of needed employees shall specify the name and location of the job in question, the  
probable duration of the job, the class or classes of employees to be hired, the number of employees required  
in each class, the probable length of employment of those in each class and the experience and qualifications desired  
of same employees.  
The Employer shall notify the Union whenever employees arc hired, giving their names and addresses, date  
of employment and the job classifications to which they are assigned. The Employer shail notify the Union in  
writing whenever an employee performing work covered by this Agreement ts to be transferred to a position in  
which he will be performing no work covered by this  
When qualified members are not available, the Employer agrees to notify the Union in advance of the desire to  
employ additional help. The Union shal! refer applicants to the Employer from the Union’s list of applicants  
available for that purpose.  
Employers will contact the Union and find out if there are unemployed members available before resorting to  
advertising in the paper.  
### SECTION 8  
Non-Discrimination  
The Employer and/or the Union shall not discriminate against any person because of or on account of age, race,  
color, sex, national origin, ancestry or religion in the hire, discharge, transfer, layoff, discipline or in the assignment  
of jobs or with respect to any other terms or conditions of employment.  
Support of Primary Activity - employees covered by this Agreement shall have the right to respect any Icgal  
primary picket line validly established by any bona fide labor organization, and the Union party to this Agrecment  
has the right to withdraw covered by this Agreement whencver the Employer party to the Agreement  
is involved in a legitimate primary labor dispute with any bona fide labor organization.  
### SECTION 9  
Management Rights  
Membcrs shall be free to select the Employer for whom they desire to work. The Employer shall be free to accept  
or reject any job applicant referred from any source. It is distinctly understood and agreed that the Employer  
reserves the right of management at all times and may select in case of reduction or replacement of forces those  
workmen who are, in the Employer’s judgment, the best qualified.  
### SECTION 10  
Employer’s Responsibility  
Employers shall be held responsible for failure to furnish proper and sufficient protection to Employees covered  
by this Agreement in their employ on all jobs.  
The Employer must abide by OSHA and all rules and regulations thereunder and all other applicable safety rules  
and regulations.  
In accordance with the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1980, it shall be the  
exclusive responsibility of the Employer to ensure the safety of its employees and the compliance by them with  
any safety rules contained herein established by the Employer. Nothing in this Agreement will make the Union liable  
to any employees or to any persons in the event that work-related disease, sickness, death, injury or accident  
occurs.  
All current and new employees of an Employer shall be offered the required hours of OSHA Safety Related  
Training. The training will be provided under the auspices of the Painters District Council #2 Apprenticeship and  
Journeyman Training Fund.  
—6§—  
Painters District Council #2 shall provide Lead Certification Training to the greatest extent possible.  
A Joint Safety Committee shall be formed equally of Labor and Management. This committee shall promulgate  
procedures and regulations governing the Painters District Council] #2 Health and Safety Program. The regulations  
of said program shall require the approval of Painters District Council #2 and the Executive Board of the P.D.C.A.  
The funding for the Safety and OSHA Related Training Program is being supplied by the Painters District  
Counci] #2 Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Fund. It is expressly understood, however, that the  
responsibility to provide a safe working place and safety training remains the obligation of the Employer.  
A. On jobs where a swing stage is used the following cquipment must be furnished and the following rules  
must be followed:  
(1) Alife line and safety belt for each man.  
(2) Enough rope to tie back rigging safely.  
(3) <A back-ratling on each stage.  
(4) A make-shift ladder stage will not be permitted.  
(5) Metal counterweights must be used on all outriggers.  
B. All Scaffold boards shall be at least ten inches wide or over.  
C. Any ladder that is used on a smooth or slick surface, such as terrazzo or waxed floors, shall be equipped with  
a safety device.  
D. Broken or patched ladders or extension ladders with rungs that do not match shall not be permitted on any  
job.  
E. Noemployee covered by this Agreement shall be permitted to hook up a stage or a swing Stage without  
the help of another employee covered by this Agreement.  
F. Noemployee covered by this Agreement shal] move ladder scaffolding over twelve feet in height without  
taking boards off ladders.  
G. The Employer agrees to furnish a power-driven boat with proper safety equipment on all work performed  
over water. Furthermore, this craft must be of sufficient horsepower to maneuver effectively in waters in  
question. Motor of boat must be started each hour. The operator of such power-driven boat shall be a  
member of the Painters District Council #2 Union covered by this Agreement with current first-aid  
certification and previous experience operating a power-driven craft.  
H. When employees covered by this Agreement refuse to work on faulty equipment such as oul-riggers, ropes,  
scaffolds, ladders, etc., the Employer shal] be required to see that such equipment is replaced by appropriate  
quality equipment and that no repressive action against employees by the Employer will be permitted.  
I. The Employer shall furnish ice water for the employees on all jobs during the summer months. Any  
container used to distribute drinking water shall be clearly marked as to the nature of its contents and not  
used for any other purpose.  
J. The Employer shall provide adequate washing facilities or proper materia! for employees engaged in the  
application of paints, coatings, or any other operation where contaminants may be harmful to the  
employees.  
K. The Employer will make certain that appropriate sanitation facilities are available for all employees on the  
job site.  
L. Approved first-aid supplies shall be furnished by the Employer and be accessible on all job sites, along  
with a list of emergency telephone numbers for the nearest medical facilities, Police and Fire Departments.  
M. In the absence of medical facilities that are reasonably accessible in terms of time and distance to the work  
site, the Employer is required to have available an employee who is certified to render first aid.  
N. At least two (2) employees shall be required on each stage.  
QO. The Employer agrees to furnish the employees on the sandblasting nozzles an OSHA approved air-fed  
hood with no breaks, tears, or other defects.  
P. With cause, the Union may request and the Employer shall furnish to the Union a list of all jobs. An  
Employer shall have the right to appeal such requests to the Joint Trade Board.  
—_7—  
### SECTION 11  
Substance Abuse Testing, Prevention and  
Rehabilitation  
The Employer and the Union agrees to continue their negotiations with respect to a Substance Abuse Testing,  
Prevention and Rehabilitation Policy for those Employers who want to have a policy for their employees. The  
parties agree that the cost of administering the Policy will be borne entirely by the Employer, including but not  
limited to, time spent by the employees in the testing procedure (to and from the testing site, and the collection of the  
samplc), the testing of the sample by a laboratory certified by the National Institute of Drug Abuse (“NIDA”). and  
the cost of the Medical Review Officer. Until the Employer and Union have agreed on a Policy, those Employers  
desiring to establish a Substance Abuse Testing, Prevention, and Rehabilitation Policy, may-use the St. Louis  
Construction Industry Substance Abuse Consortium Procedures and Policy.  
### SECTION 12  
Insurance  
The Employer, whether Jegally obligated to do so or not, agrees to elect to come under the Missouri Workmen’s  
Compensation Law and to take such steps as are provided by said Law for the acceptance thereof. The Employer  
agrees to carry Workmen’s Compensation Insurance on all employees covered by this Agreement in his employ at  
all times and to furnish the Union with a certificate from a reputable insurance company licensed to do business in  
the State of Missouri, showing such insurance to be in effect.  
The employer agrees to elect to come under the Missouri State Unemployment Compensation Act and  
provide unemployment benefits to all employees covered by this Agreement in their employ regardless of the  
number of employees employed, and to display in their shops at all times Employer’s Certificate of Registra-  
tion and Notice to Employees as issued by the Division of Employment Security, State of Missouri, to all  
Employers who come under the Act, and the Employer agrees to pay Social Security Tax on all employees covered  
by this Agreement in their employ.  
The Employer shall have its insurance company furnish to the Union a copy of the Workmen’s Compensation  
policy annually. The insurance policies and coverage required pursuant to this agreement shall contain an  
endorsement to the effect that expiration, cancellation or material changes in the policies adversely affecting the  
interest of employees and/or the Union in such insurance, shall require thirty (30) days written notice to Painters  
District Council No. 2.  
### SECTION 13  
Wage and Fringe Benefits Formula  
It is agreed that the prevailing wage shall be paid to all employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement for  
all hours worked for the Employer irrespective of the nature or character of the work, except as referred to and  
covered by Section 7, paragraph 3.  
PAY DAY: All Employees covered by this Agreement shail be paid weekly by the end of the workday  
and the Employer shall notify the Painters District Council No. 2 and the Funds Office in writing of the day  
designated as payday.  
1) Failure on part of Employer to comply with this Section shall subject him to payment of two hours  
waiting time.  
2) The Employer shall have redress before the Joint Board when he feels that he is not at fault for failure to  
comply with (1) of this Section  
### SECTION 14  
Wage and Fringe Benefits Amounts  
The following wage and fringe benefit increases for the term of this Agreement are as follows:  
Wages Per Hour Sept. 1, 2000 Sept. 1, 2001 Sept. 1, 2002  
(Hourly Rate)  
Brush & Roller $22.93 $23.93 $24.93  
Pressure Roller 23.18 24.18 25.18  
($.25 above Brush & Roller Rate)  
Taper 22.93 23.93 24.93  
Taper (Ames Tools & Bazooka)  
($.50 above Applicable rate 9/1/2000) 23.43  
($.75 above applicable rate 9/1/2001) 24.68 25.68  
Spray & Abrasive Blasting 24.93 25.93 26.93  
($2.00 above Brush & Roller Rate)  
Water Blasting (Over 5000 PSI) 24.93 25.93 26.93  
($2.00 above Brush & Roller Rate)  
Foreman  
3-5 Employee Crew 23.43 24.43 25.43  
($.50 above applicable rate)  
6-15 Employee Crew 23.93 24.93 25.93  
($1.00 above applicable rate)  
16 or More Employee Crew 24.43 25.43 26.43  
($1.50 above applicable rate)  
High work over 60 ft. 23.43 24.43 25.43  
Sce definition - Section 30  
($.50 above applicable rate)  
High work under 60 ft. 23.18 24.18 25.18  
See definition - Section 30  
($.25 above applicable rate)  
*Lead Abatement 23.68 24.68 25.68  
(When applicable)  
($.75 above applicable rate)  
*An employee working in an area where the lead levels reach the active level shall receive a $.75 per hour  
premium, provided they are trained and certified in Lead Paint Removal and Abatement.  
Effective 9/1/2003 there will be a $1.15 per hour increase to be applied either to wages, welfare, pension,  
apprentice and journeyman training fund or vacation at the discretion of the Union, and 9/1/2004 there shall be a  
$1.15 per hour increase to be applied to wages, welfare, pension, apprentice and journeyman training fund or  
vacation at the discretion of the Union.  
Pre-Apprentice - Ist six months 35% of applicable Journeyman rate.  
2nd six months 40% of applicable Journeyman rate plus Welfare  
Benefit and LMCF.  
Apprentice - Ist Year - 45% of applicable rate  
2nd Year - 65% of applicable Journeyman rate  
3rd Year - 80% of applicable Journeyman rate  
The Employer shall have no obligation to pay wages or make fringe benefit contributions with respect to hours  
spent by the Apprentice at the Apprentice School.  
As to any Apprentice who first became an Apprentice on or after September 1, 1991, there will be no  
pension contribution payable until the Apprentice advances to 3rd year.  
Fringe Benefits Per Hour Sept. I, 2000 Sept. 1, 2001 Sept. 1, 2002  
Welfare $ 3.20 $ 3.35 $ 3.50  
Pension 2.72 2.72 2.72  
Vacation 1.0] 1.01 1.01  
Apprenticeship and Journeyman  
Training Fund 27 27 = «et  
Industry Fund 13 13 13  
Labor Management Cooperation  
### Fund LMCF OS OS OS  
Administrative Dues Check-Off 2% of the gross wage  
Effective September !, 1997, the above contribution rates for the Welfare, Pension, Apprenticeship/Journeyman,  
and Vacation Funds shall apply only to Secured Employers. Secured Employers are those Employers who have  
posted and maintained the Surety Bond, Letter of Credit or Certificate of Deposit required by Section 4 of this  
Agreement. In recognition of the increased risk and administrative costs sustained by the aforementioned Funds  
whenever an Employer fails to obtain or maintain the requisite Surety Bond, Letter of Credit or Certificate of  
Deposit, effective September 1, 1997, for any pay period during which an Employer fails to qualify as a Secured  
the principal contributory rates per hour for any such Employer to the Welfare, Pension, Apprenticc-  
ship/Journeyman and Vacation Funds shall be 10% greater than the rates applicable to Secured Employers, rounded  
up to the next cent. This additional 10% shall inure to the benefit of the Funds generally and shall not be credited to  
to the account of any particular participant. Any liquidated damages owed by an Unsecured Employer for any pay  
period during which it was an Unsecured Employer shall be computed based on the higher principal rates applicable  
to Unsecured Employers. Prior to being required to contribute at the rate applicable for Unsecured Employers, the  
Employer shall be given sixty (60) days advance notice by the Trustees or their representative(s).  
It is intended, understood and agreed that should any tribunal determine that the higher contributory rates  
applicable to Unsecured Employers are for any reason unenforceable, then such Unsecured Employers shall  
remain liable for contributions at the rates prescribed for Secured Employers.  
It is hereby agreed by the parties that five cents ($.05) of each twenty-seven cents ($.27) per hour contributed by  
the Employer to the Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Fund, shall be remitted to the National Painting,  
Decorating and Drywal] Apprenticeship and Manpower Training Fund to be used in accordance with the  
Agreement and Trust established by the National Painting, Decorating and Drywal! Apprenticeship  
Committee. The Trustees of the Apprenticeship and Journcyman Training Fund have the authority to allocate  
additional monies to the National Painting, Decorating and Drywall Apprenticeship Committee during the course of  
this Agreement.  
Each Employer which is subject to the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) must notify  
the Welfare Plan Office when an employee covered under this agreement takes leave under the FMLA. While an  
employce is on such leave the Employer shal! make contributions to the Welfare Trust on behalf of that employee.  
The contribution shall be in the same monthly amounts as the Self-Pay rate that is established from time to time by  
the Trustees of the Welfare Trust. If the employee is on leave in any calendar month for less than the whole calendar  
month, the Employer shall contribute one-twenticth or 5% of the monthly Self-Pay amount for each day the  
employee is on such FMLA leave up to a maximum of 100% of the Self-Pay amount in any calendar month.  
### SECTION 15  
Statement of Earnings and Deductions  
The Employer agrees that all wages of employees covered by this Agreement, whether paid in cash or  
negotiable check, shall be accompanied by a statement of gross earnings and any deductions legally made. Such  
statement shal] show the employers’ name, the employees’ name, and the hourly rate of pay, the pay period, and total  
—10—  
hours worked. Hours worked must specifically show regular and overtime hours in separate columns. Net pay will  
be shown after al] deductions, such as federal, state and city withholding taxes, vacation and dues check-off, have  
been made.  
The employer shall maintain a time keeping system which accurately reflects all hours worked by employees  
covered by this Agreement. This system must be presented to the Union at the signing of the Ageement. The system  
shall be maintained for the length of the Agreement, and any change in the system must be approved by the Union.  
In the event that the Employer shall fai] to maintain or, on request from the Union or the Trustees of any of the fringe  
benefit funds, fails to produce such records, then for purposes of computing fringe benefit contributions, dues  
check-off and Industry Fund contributions, there shail be a rebuttable presumption that any employee who worked  
for an Employer within a particular weekly pay period worked a total of 40 hours in such pay period for such  
Employer.  
### SECTION 16  
Hours of Werk  
Eight (8) hours per day shall constitute a standard workday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. with one  
half (1/2) hour designated as an unpaid lunch period. However, due to the heat, from May 15 through September 15,  
the Employer may designate the starting timc to be 6:00 a.m., provided, the employer notifies its employees and the  
Union (by telephone, FAX or mail) prior to the date when the earlier starting time is to take effect and informs the  
employees and the Union of the period of time that the earlier starting time is to be used. Failure of the Employer to  
notify the employees and the Union will result in the overtime rate being paid for the hours worked.  
The standard workweek shall be forty (40) hours between 7:00 a.m. on Monday and ending 5:00 p.m. on  
Friday (except from May 15 through September 15, when the Employer is using the earlier starting time of 6:00  
a.m.) and shall be considered regular time and shall be paid for at the prevailing rate. There shal] be no make-up at  
regular pay for hours lost during the workweek.  
In the event that any construction trades on the job have a different or longer workday than the Painters’ workday  
under the applicable agreement, the Employer may, by consultation and agreement with the Union, conform the  
workday to the other trades. 4/10’s are applicable to industrial work only. Monday through Friday, the Employer  
must give prior notice to the Union. If an Employer fails to report that the 4/10 hour shift in advance, al! hours  
above eight (8) shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.  
### SECTION 17  
Overtime  
An overtime rate of time and one-half the base hourly rate shall be paid for all hours in excess of eight (8) hours  
in a day Monday through Friday.  
The applicable brush and roller rate only shal] be multiplied by the applicable overtime multiplier.  
On all overtime one-half hour shall] be set aside after cach four (4) hours of work as a lunch period.  
Shift work is applicable to commercial and industrial new work and re-work. There must be a minumum of one  
(1) day of shift work in order to use shift work, and the Employer must give prior notice to the Union.  
The Employer shall have the right to work employees Monday through Friday for eight hours during and eight  
and one-half hour period commencing between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. with an unpaid one-half  
hour lunch period, provided employees working this shift are paid an additional $2.00 per hour over the brush and  
roller rate. Shift work into Saturday will carry the shift rate only.  
The Employer shall have the right to work employees Monday through Friday for seven and one-half hours  
during an eight hour period commencing after 8:00 p.m. with a paid one-half hour lunch period, provided employees  
working this shift are paid an additional! $4.00 per hour over the brush and roller rate. Shift work on Saturday shall  
carry the shift rate only.  
The Employer shall have the right to work employees Monday through Friday for seven and one-half hours  
during an eight hour period commencing after 8:00 p.m. with a paid one-half hour lunch period, provided employees  
working this shift are paid an additional $4.00 per hour over the brush and roller rate. Shift work into Saturday shall  
carry the shift rate only. In occupied areas, for repaint work only, in lieu of working on Friday, a shift may be started  
after 10:00 p.m. on Sunday.  
= |]  
Any work started after 12:00 midnight Sunday, will be classified as time and one-half up to the legal starting time  
on Monday.  
In the event an employee works any part of a shift he shal] be paid for the entire shift, which is a minimum of eight  
(8) paid hours per shift.  
An Employer who fails to report a shift job in advance shall pay the overtime rate.  
On all jobs on which overtime work is necessary this overtime must be reported to the District Council tn  
advance.  
### SECTION 18  
Saturday, Sunday and Holidays  
Saturday shall be considered overtime and work done on Saturday shall be paid at time and one-half the  
prevailing scale.  
Sundays and Holidays shall be considered overtime and work done on these days shall be paid at double the  
prevailing scale. All jobs on which overtime is necessary must be reported to the District Council in advance. On ali  
jobs where Saturday, Sunday or Holiday overtime work is done, the Board of Business Representatives may  
appoint a steward to represent the Union’s interest.  
### SECTION 19  
Holidays  
The holidays covered by this Agreement or Memorandum of Understanding are: New Year’s Day, Decoration  
Day, Independence Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. Should any of these days fall on  
Sunday, then the following day shall be observed as the holiday. Under no circumstances shall employees covered  
by this Agreement be permitted to work on Labor Day (the first Monday in September).  
### SECTION 20  
Time Allowance  
Sufficient time shall be allowed to all employees covered by this Agreement on all jobs to wash up before taking  
their lunch period and prior to quitting time to clean and put away their tools. All other work, such as taking down  
scaffolds or ladders, folding drop cloths, etc., shall be done on the Employer’s time.  
### SECTION 21  
Stewards  
It ts agreed that the Union shall have the power to appoint Stewards from the Employer’s work force and the  
Employer agrees to recognize such persons appointed as Stewards.  
The Job Stewards shal] be allowed sufficient and reasonable time during working hours to carry on any activities  
necessary to discharge their duties.  
They shall have the authority to check identification of employees on the job, and check all equipment and  
rigging to assure that it is safe and in proper working condition. The Employer shall not dismiss or otherwise  
discipline any Steward for properly performing his duties. The Employer will not move the appointed Steward to  
another job without prior notice to the Union or terminate a Steward without properly notifying the Union at least  
twenty-four (24) hours prior to his removal. Should a regular employee of the Employer’s work force refuse or  
otherwise disqualify himself as a Steward, then the Business Representative shall appoint a Steward from outside  
the shop.  
### SECTION 22  
Foreman  
It is agreed that, where three to five (3-5) employees are employed on the job, one of the employees shall be  
designated as a foreman and he shall receive $.50 per hour above the brush and roller rate. Where six to fifteen  
(6-15) employees are on a job, one of the employees shall be designated as a foreman and shall receive $1.00 per  
hour above the brush and roller rate. Where sixteen (16) or more employees are on the job, one of the  
—12—  
employees shall be designated as a foreman and shall receive $1.50 per hour above the brush and roller rate. In  
addition, he shall be paid an amount equal to the highest wage enjoyed by any other employees on the job, to  
make the foreman the highest paid employee on the job.  
### SECTION 23  
Tools and Equipment  
No brush over 4-1/2 inches wide and 1 inch thick shall be used in oil color.  
On all matertals such as water colors and water thinned paints; brushes not to exceed 8 inches in width and 2  
inches in thickness wll be permitted.  
Roller stipplers shall not exceed 10 inches in length.  
Felt and wool applicators and squeegees shall not be over 10 inches in length, except there shall be no  
restrictions on coating floors.  
Paint pots shall not be over 5 gallons in size.  
The use of a paint mitten shall be permitted only to reach inaccessible places that otherwise cannot be reached by  
brush or spray, subject to the approval of the Joint Trade Board.  
Roller applicators shall not measure over ten inches in length or shall not exceed five inches in diameter, except  
there shall] be no restrictions on coating floors.  
Employees shall be required to supply their own duster, scraper, putty knife, hammer, pliers and screwdriver,  
### SECTION 24  
Transportation of Materials  
Employees covered by this Agreement are not permitted to lease or rent their automobile or truck to their  
Employer nor shall they be permitted to hau] or transport materials, equipment or tools in excess of 80 pounds in  
their own automobile, truck or on a public conveyance.  
### SECTION 25  
Discharging Employees  
No employee shall be discriminated against because he belongs to the Union. When an discharges  
an employee covered by this Agreement and has him go to the shop for his money, the employee shall receive two  
hours pay for same.  
The Employer agrees that the employees covered by this agreement shall not be discharged or reprimanded for  
reporting violations of this Agreement to the Union.  
An employee covered by this Agreement, upon final termination by the Employer, shall be paid tn full his  
wages immediately upon being discharged. Failure to comply will entitle the employee to two (2) hours pay  
for the inconvenience.  
### SECTION 26  
Waiting Time  
When an Employer promises to put an employee covered by this Agreement to work and orders him to report at  
the job site at a certain time and place and then fails to put him to work, (the said employee having reported  
promptly), it shall be the duty of that employee to demand two (2) hours pay for the inconvenience and expense  
that he was put to and no excuse on the part of the Employer will be accepted for not putting him to work except  
weather conditions over which the Employer has no control. |  
—13—  
   
### SECTION 27  
Travel Expense  
All parking fees to be reimbursed by the Employer when a paid receipt is presented same not to  
exceed two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per day.  
When employees are required to furnish their own transportation to work beyond the designated  
boundanes of District Council #2, in Missouri refer to map on following page; and while in I}linois,  
except the area bounded by Sparta, IL. Hwy. 154W to Red Bud; South on Rt. 3 to Ruma, IL; West on 155 to  
the Mississippi River; Hwy. 4 East to 140 West to the Mississippi River, they shall recetve twenty cents  
($.20) per mile travel expense pay. All mileage to be the shortest route to the job site.  
When employees covered by this Agreement are employed beyond the jurisdictional boundaries of  
District Council #2 and at too great a distance to travel datly, all actual expenses, such as room, board,  
(ransportation cost and loss of time traveling, must be paid by the Employer. The minimum of such expenses  
shall not be less than forty-five dollars ($45.00) per day.  
### SECTION 28  
Employees Performing Work in other Localities  
The Contractor or the Employer party to this Agreement, when engaged in work outside the  
geographical jurisdiction of the Union party to this Agreement, shall employ not less than fifty percent  
(50%) of the workers employed on such work from among the residents of the area where the work is  
performed, or from among persons who are engaged the greater percentage of their time in such area.  
The employer party hercto shall, when engaged in work outside the geographical jurisdiction of the Union  
party to this Agreement, comply with al! lawful clauses of the Collective Bargaining Agreement in effect in  
said other geographic jurisdiction and executed by the employers of this industry and the affiliated Local  
Union in that jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the wages, hours, working conditions, fringe  
benefits, and procedure for settlement of grievances set forth therein; provided, however, that as to  
employees employed by such Employer from within the geographical jurisdiction of the Union party to this  
Agreement and who are brought into an outside jurisdiction, such employces shall be entitled to receive  
the wages and conditions effective in either the home or outside jurisdiction, whichever are more favorable  
to such employees, and fringe benefits contributions on behalf of such employees shall be made solely to  
their home funds in accordance with their governing documents, This provision ts enforceable by the  
District Council or Local Union in whose jurisdiction the work is being performed, both through the  
procedure for settlement of grievances set forth in the applicable Collective Bargaining Agrecment and  
through the courts, and is also enforceable by the Union party to this Agreement, both through the  
procedure for settlement of grievances set forth in this Agreement and through the courts.  
### SECTION 29  
Spray and Blasting Regulations and  
Lead Abatement Regulations  
When a five (5) gallon pot or less is used for spray painting, only one (1) journeyman is required.  
When morc than a five (5) gallon pot is used, there shal} be a crew of two (2) employees. The second person of the  
crew is to tend the pot, pump or compressor or other related work. All work must be performed in the work area  
where the spraying is being performed.  
When two (2) spray guns are used, there shall be three (3) employees in a crew. The third person of the crew is to  
tend the pot, pump or compressor or other related work. All work must be performed tn the work area where the  
spraying is being performed.  
When three (3) spray guns are used, there shall be four (4) employees in a crew. The fourth person of the crew is  
to tend the pot, pump or compressor or other related work. All work must be performed in the work arca where the  
spraying is being performed.  
When four (4) spray guns are used, there shall be five (5) employees in a crew. The fifth person of the crew is to  
tend the pot, pump or compressor or other related work. All work must be performed in the work area where the  
spraying is being performed.  
—14—  
   
    
   
      
      
No Travel Compensation within the area shown below,  
refer to Section 27 for all other areas.  
    
      
       
      
     
   
     
ae  
“as  
Fa  
%,  
As Tres ‘33  
I 5 4 “- 4 “ig  
Gara FLINCO way Troy Athamors.  
me C2 Sek fe 7” -  
SE ia eye  
i ice ry Ss “0 30+  
> em , FM aX  
> : “ee “ns OE OTS wi NEI, iA  
tee : ‘hf 4  
            
   
   
   
    
    
     
       
         
       
    
  
Ae  
Me @  
a UY) KD er a aie  
Ee |  
  
  
a wt i . 3 a re be : | nes o qirview te jledaror =  
By Gow ous 3 7 Cheng HS 9 rt  
taal . '  
2% 4  
a a en  
+.  
ir *  
us"? A; |  
tae Ow -  
ellevitie scon  
?  
(163) 9 oy, Mascoutah  
s : Ad Millstadt Ss T t A b oo)  
Lan _—  
Ra BY Freeburg  
Smithton ¢ *  
      
     
  
     
  
+ en tz  
. wom ec “« 5  
S 156 1156 je  
"x ‘ a Heckel k. sre  
; 5:  
Shea. Mat  
   
   
   
TOS pny  
+ fotute SHER, x  
romeo Red Bud}  
wt ~ — t af  
. ullS Batdw  
“3, SN . > feg 42h .  
eh Kidd Fe  
Bree: * erie 155. * 5 a  
, wae wi a Ces ea se a. . “wT ?  
: De ~  
i mend  
x t  
i rs "cs sre’  
8 .  
af  
° ew"  
  
  
  
in aw OSE  
-  
    
  
d  
  
ya’  
4  
'  
4  
4  
8:  
  
%  
The spray crew shall be limited to four (4) guns. If more than four (4) guns are desired, additional spray crews  
may be used in accordance with the above paragraphs.  
A third year or second year apprentice may be used as the second person on a spray crew, but the spray crew is  
limited to one (1) apprentice per spray crew.  
There shall be ‘““deadman” controls on each blasting nozzle.  
When a three sack pot or less is used for sandblasting, only one (1) journeyman is required.  
On blasting with more than three sack pot, where one nozzle is used, a crew of two (2) employees shall be  
employed. One (1) person shall be employed for cach additional nozzle used.A third or second year apprentice  
may be the second person on the blasting crew, but the blasting crew is limited to one (1) apprentice per blasting  
crew,  
The employee using the spray gun or nozzle shall receive the spray classification rate of pay listed under Section  
14 of this Agreement for each hour or fraction thereof while performing this type of work.  
Spray crews shall alternate on using the spray guns.  
The spraying of lead will not be permitted unless the lead is a component part of the material that has been  
specified for a particular job. Then such material may be sprayed if used in strict conformity with the safety  
regulations as outlined in the applicable state and local areas codes but not less than those prescribed by  
OSHA standards.  
An employee performing water blasting with equipment over 5,000 PSI shall be provided with protective  
clothing.  
Employers shall provide adequate protection for the health and safety of employees working on spray and  
blasting jobs.  
An employee working in an area where the lead levels reach the action level shall receive a $.75 per hour  
premium, provided they are trained and certified in Paint Removal and Abatement.  
### SECTION 30  
Wages, High Work  
The wage rates set forth under Section 14 are applicable on the following work performed by employees covered  
by this Agreement: bridges, viaducts, elevated tanks, ground storage tanks, smoke stacks, radio, television and  
electric towers, erected flagpoles, swing stage and boatswain’s chair, window jacks, window sills and ledges, and  
open structural steel}.  
On interior work where safeway, patented, erected scaffolding or other means of scaffolding is used, the wage  
rates set forth under Section 14 are not applicable.  
### SECTION 31  
Pre-Apprentice and Apprentice Regulations  
Pre-Apprentices shal] be indentured to the contractor. The regulations are found in the Apprenticeship Standards.  
The Pre-Apprentices, although indentured to the contractor, will be administered and directed by the Joint  
Apprenticeship Committee.  
Apprentices shall be indentured in accordance with the Apprenticeship Standards established by the Joint  
Apprenticeship Committees and approved by the Joint Trade Board, the Painting and Decorating Contractors of  
America, Chapter No. 2 (PDCA), the Painters District Council No. 2 and all governing Departments required. The  
Apprenticeship Standards are incorporated into this Agreement.  
The Employer must report on the weekly report submitted to the Welfare Fund all hours worked by  
both apprentices and pre-apprentices and must pay fringe benefit contributions, administrative dues check-off and  
Industry Fund contributions for all such hours to the extent required pursuant to Section 14 of this Agreement or the  
rules governing the Pre-Apprentice Program.  
—16—  
   
### SECTION 32  
Summer Student Regulations  
The parties hereto agree to the establishment of a Summer Student Program commencing May 15, 1986.  
Employees hired to participate in the Summer Student Program must be students in school, and will be allowed  
to work May 15th to September 15th only.  
The wage rate for Summer Students is 40% of the Journeyman wage with no fringes.  
At the discretion of the Union it will be determined on a year-to-year basis if Summer Students will be allowed on  
new residential construction.  
The following shop ratios shall not be exceeded at any time:  
3 to 5 Journeymen - 1 Summer Student  
6 to 10 Journeymen - 2 Summer Students  
11 to 15 Journeymen - 3 Summer Students  
16 to 20 Journeymen - 4 Summer Students  
21 to 30 Journeymen - 5 Summer Students  
31 to 40 Journeymen - 6 Summer Students  
There will be a maximum of six (6) Summer Students per employer.  
Summer Students may be employed on shift work but shall not be permitted to perform any overtime work or  
premium work.  
In the event of abuse by an employer, the Summer Student will be removed from his shop and he will not have  
permission to have Summer Students the following year.  
Employment of Summer Students will require the prospective employee to sign in at the Union Hall prior to  
commencement of work and pay for the first two weeks permits at $2.00 per day or $10.00 per week.  
### SECTION 33  
Displaying of Signs  
The Employer has the option to display on all jobs a sign bearing the name of the firm, or sign bearing the name  
of the industry fund or displaying the logo of the industry fund.  
### SECTION 34  
Accidents to Employees  
Should an employee covered by this Agreement be taken ill or meet with an accident while at work, it shall be the  
duty of the person in charge or his co-workers to:  
1) Properly administer first aid per certification.  
2) Call for assistance — police, hospital, ambulance, etc.  
3) Notify Employer’s office immediately.  
4) Employer’s office shall immediately notify the Union and the insurance carrier.  
5) Employees injured or becoming 11] due to conditions of work shall be paid for the full shift when such  
illness or injury occurs if unable to return to work.  
### SECTION 35  
New Material  
All matters pertaining to methods of applications of new materials and the use of tools or equipment not covered  
by this Agreement shall be referred to the Joint Trade Board.  
—17—  
### SECTION 36  
Fringe Benefit Funds, Administrative  
Dues Check-Off and Industry Fund  
The Employer shall be required to contribute to the Pension, Welfare, Vacation, Apprenticeship  
Journeyman, Industry Fund and Labor Management Cooperation Fund (LMCF) and to remit 2% Administrative  
Dues Check-Off on behalf of all employees except Summer Students covered by this Agreement for all hours  
worked within a pay period for such employees irrespective of the nature and character of the work performed.  
However, an Employer shail not be required to contribute to the Pension Fund on behalf of an Apprentice who first  
commences Apprenticeship on or after September 1, 1991, until such an Apprentice advances to the third year of  
Apprenticeship. With respect to any employee of the Employer who is salaried, an officer or who has an  
ownership interest in the Employer’s Company and who performs bargaining unit work covered by this  
Agreement, the Employer shall be obligated to contribute on behalf of any such employee for the greater of 40  
hours or the amount of time actually worked during the pay week, except where any holiday recognized by this  
Agreement falls in any such pay week, the 40-hour contnbution obligation shall be reduced by the amount of eight  
(8) hours for each recognized holiday falling within the pay week. In the event that an Employer should subcontract  
work in violation of this Agreement, then the Employer shall be obligated to contribute to the above entities for all  
work performed by the subcontractor and the employees thereof, The Employer agrees to report on a weekly basis  
on a report form prescribed by the Welfare Fund Office all hours worked by all employees covered by this  
Agreement. For any pay period in which the employer has employed no employees covered by this Agreement, this  
too shall be reported to the Welfare Fund Office.  
### SECTION 37  
Welfare Fund  
The Employer agrees to contribute to the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust the hourly amount  
provided for or established under Section 14 of this Agreement.  
The Employer agrees by contribution to the Branch “O” Classification of the Welfare Fund to extended  
Welfare coverage for any employee covered by this Agreement injured on the job and covered by Workmen’s  
Compensation during the period when such employee is off from work due to such injury for a maximum period of  
twelve (12) consecutive calendar months. Each Employer shall notify the Union and the Welfare Fund  
immediately upon the employee’s release from Workmen’s Compensation, and its failure to so notify the Union  
and the Welfare Fund will result in the Employer being liable for the premium.  
Each participant of the Welfare Plan must be issued a card indicating insurance carrier and policy number.  
The employer agrees to be a party to and be bound by the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust  
Agreement.  
### SECTION 38  
Pension Fund  
The Employer agrees to contribute to the Painters District Counci] No. 2 Pension Trust for the hourly  
amount provided for or established under Section 14 of this Agreement. The Employer also agrees to be a party to  
and be bound by the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement. However, an Employer shall  
not be required to contribute to the Pension Fund on behalf of any Apprentice who first commences Apprentice-  
ship on or after September 1, 1991, until such Apprentice advances to the third year of Apprenticeship.  
### SECTION 39  
Administrative Dues Check-Off  
The Employer agrees to deduct 2% of the employees’ gross weekly wages as Administrative Dues Check-Off for  
those employees who have signed a dues deduction authorization form.  
The Employer further agrees to make weekly reports showing the number of hours worked and the gross wage of  
each employee and remit 2% deduction to the Union.  
The employer will also submit to the Union a list of all employees and hours worked by all employees who are  
covered by this Agreement but who have not signed a dues deduction authorization form. By virtue of the operation  
of this paragraph the Employer incurs no liability or responsibility.  
For the convenience of the Employer, the dues check-off will be included in one check covering the Welfare,  
Pension, Vacation and Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Fund contributions, dues check-off and Labor  
Management Cooperation Fund (LMCF), payable weekly.  
### SECTION 40  
Vacation Plan  
The Employer agrees to contribute to the Painters Council No. 2 Vacation Trust in the hourly amount  
provided for or established under Section 14 of this Agreement. The Employer shall add to the employce’s base pay  
the vacation amount and, after all federal, state and city taxes have been deducted from the gross wages of the  
employee, the vacation sum shall be deducted and remitted to the Vacation Fund.  
One cent ($.01) of the amount may be used for the administrative cost of the Vacation Fund.  
The Employer agrees to be a party to and be bound by the Painters District Counciil No. 2 Vacation Plan and  
Trust Agrecment.  
### SECTION 41  
Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Fund  
The Employer agrees to contribute to the Painters District Council No. 2 Apprenticeship and Journeyman  
Training Fund in the hourly amount provided for or established under Section 14 of this Agreement.  
The Employer agrees to be a party to and be bound by the Painters District Council No. 2 Apprenticeship and  
Journeyman Trust Agreement.  
### SECTION 42  
Industry Fund  
The Employer agrees to contribute to the St. Louis Painters and Decorating Industry Advancement Fund in the  
hourly amount provided for in Section 14 of this Agreement by separate check payable to the St. Louis  
Contracting Painters and Decorators Industry Advancement Fund.  
### SECTION 43  
Labor Management Cooperation Fund (LMCF)  
All District Councils and signatory contractors to this agreement agree to contribute to the Labor Management  
Cooperation Fund a minimum of five cents ($.05) for each hour or portion thereof for which an employee reccives  
pay, except on Summer Students or first 6-month Pre-Apprentice.  
### SECTION 44  
Contribution to Joint Board  
All employers represented by the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America, Chapter No. 2, and individual  
Employers signatory to this Agreement shall contribute to the Joint Board at the time of signing this Agreement, for  
the length of this Agreement, the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00), to be used for administrative purposes of the Joint  
Trade Board.  
### SECTION 45  
Termination  
This Agreement shall become effective September 1, 2000, and shail remain in full force and effect until  
midnight August 31, 2005, and shalf automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either or both  
parties hereto shall give the other notice in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the original expiration date of the  
Agreement or the then next expiration date in any year thereafter, of a desire to terminate or modify this  
Agreement.  
— 19 —  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused thts Agreement to be executed by their  
duly authorized officers and representatives on day 20. Thee  
date of execution notwithstanding, this Agreement shall be effective retroactive to September 1, 2000.  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2 OF THE PAINTING AND DECORATING  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF PAINTERS CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA,  
### AND ALLIED TRADES, AFL-CIO CHAPTER NO. 2/ Affiliated with FCA  
. 4 . - . *  
By  
Title  
0 (  
Print Name Date  
   
   
Designaigd Weekly Pay Day  
     
Richard J. Bryan Mark Nelson  
Robert A. Lucks Randy Freese  
Richard Broeker Michael Slattery  
Kevin Kenny Ed Moore  
Daniel Len Hart Jeff Smith  
Daniel Woods Tim Wies  
Gene Kappler  
— 20 —  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### WELFARE TRUST AGREEMENT  
(Effective July 9, 1991)  
This is a complete revision and restatement of the Painters District Counci! No. 2 Welfare Trust Agreement  
originally entered into on December 1, 1951, by and between the St. Louis Painters and Decorators Joint Board, Inc.,  
a Missouri pro forma decree corporation hereinafter referred to as “the Board” and certain named individuals as initial  
Trustees whose successors currently are JOSEPH SHATRO, MARTIN BERGERON, JIM SMITH, DANIEL  
LEACH, WILLIAM SMITH, and JOSEPH WARD, hereinafter referred to as “the Trustees”.  
WHEREAS, Painters District Council No. 2, a labor organization, has entered into collective bargaining  
agreements with certain employers which provide, among otherthings, for the payment of contributions to the Painters  
District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust for the benefit of Participants and Beneficiaries thereof, and  
WHEREAS, to effectuate the aforesaid purposes, it is desired to continue to maintain a trust fund and benefit plan  
which will conform to the applicable requirements of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, and  
which will continue to qualify as an “exempt trust,” pursuant to the United States Internal Revenue Code and the rules  
and regulations issued thereunder, and which will conform with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of  
1974, as amended (ERISA), and  
WHEREAS, this Welfare Trust Agreement has been amended from time to time in accordance with former Article  
XI entitled “Right to Amend” and  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties to the Agreement to amend and restate this Agreement in its entirety;  
NOW, THEREFORE, this Agreement as amended is hereby continued and restated as of July 9, 1991, as follows:  
### ARTICLE I  
### Name  
This Trust is to be known and designated as “Painters District Council No, 2 Welfare Trust.”  
The Trust is accepted in the State of Missouri, and all questions pertaining to its validity, construction, and  
administration shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the United States and of the State of Missouri.  
### ARTICLE II  
### Objective  
This Trust is designed to provide such health and welfare, dental, vision, life insurance, disability, and accidental  
death and dismemberment benefits as deemed appropriate by the Trustees to the eligible employees, dependents and  
beneficiaries of such employees, and to certain former employees of employers who contribute to this Trust. Such  
benefits will be provided pursuant to the terms of the Plan and Summary Plan Description adopted by the Trustees  
and pursuant to any group insurance policies maintained by the Trustees. The terms and conditions of the group  
insurance policies currently in effect, any amendments to such policies, and any additional policies duly executed by  
the Trustees are incorporated here by this reference.  
### ARTICLE Iil  
### Contributing Employers  
Employers who employ employees in a bargaining unit represented by the Painters District Council No. 2 and who  
have collective bargaining agreements with the Painters District Council No. 2 and who have agreed to contribute for  
the benefits provided under this Trust shall be Contributing Employers. Further, related employers, including the  
  
   
Painters District Council No. 2, the Unity Hali Corporation, the Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension,  
Group Insurance, Welfare, Vacation, and Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Trusts, who agree to contribute  
on the same basis as other Contributing Employers for the benefit of theircovered employees shall also be Contributing  
Employers hereunder.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### Benefits and Eligibility for Benefits  
The Trustees shall determine the benefits to be provided under this Trust or under any Plan established pursuant  
to this Trust. The Trustees shall also determine the eligibility rules and participation requirements which the  
employees, dependents of employees, and certain former employees of Contributing Employers must meet in order  
to become and remain Participants in the Plan and in order to become and remain eligible for the benefits provided.  
Descriptions of the benefits and eligibility rules shall be set forth from time to time by the Trustees in the Plan and  
-Summary Plan Description or other documents. The Trustees shall have the discretionary authority to construe the  
provisions set forth in any such Plan and Summary Plan Description or other documents and to make al! determinations  
with regard to eligibility for benefits.  
### ARTICLE V  
### Employer Contributions  
Each Contributing Employer who agrees in writing to contribute for the purpose of providing welfare benefits shall  
contribute the money per hour as shall] be negotiated from time to time by Employers and the Union on behalf of  
Participants who shall be employed by Contributing Employers, as set forth in Agreements between Contributing  
Employers and the Union.  
The contributions as established from time to time in the Agreements shail be due on or before the seventh calendar  
day following the weekly payroll day agreed upon between the Contributing Employer and the Union. After seven  
calendar days from the agreed payroll date, a Contributing Employer shall be assessed liquidated damages of 10% up  
to 30 days of delinquency; after which liquidated damages of 1-1/2% shall be assessed compounded monthly until the  
full contribution is made.  
In any legal action instituted to recover delinquent contributions or to recover unpaid liquidated damages, the  
Contributing Employer shall be obligated to pay reasonable attomey’s fees and reasonable accounting fees in additton  
to all principal amounts due in addition to other relief prescribed by law.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### No Reversion to Employer  
No part of the corpus or income of this Trust shall be used for or diverted to purposes other than for the exclusive  
benefit of the Participants or their Beneficiaries, and Contributing Employers shall not be entitled to receive back any  
part of their contributions to this Trust. However, this Article VI does not prohibit the Trustees from exercising their  
discretion to refund erroneous contributions to the extent that such refunds are permitted by ERISA.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### Funds in Trustees’ Possession  
Any funds coming into the hands of the Trustees from any source whatsoever not payable to a Participant, less  
reasonable expenses of administering this Trust as may be determined from time to time by the Trustees, shall be used  
solely to provide the benefits described herein for eligible Participants and their Beneficiaries.  
### ARTICLE VHl  
### Right to Amend  
The Trustees shall have the sole right to amend this Trust Agreement and any Plan or other document adopted or  
executed by the Trustees without the consent of any Participant, at any time and from time to time as may be deemed  
advisable.  
Any Trustee may propose an amendment to this Trust. Such amendment will become effective when it has been  
approved and executed by the Trustees exercising a majority of the total voting power of all the Trustees.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### Termination  
This Trust may be terminated by a majority of the Trustees when all agreements between the Union and al!  
Contributing Employers providing for contributions to this Trust are no longer in force and effect.  
Upon the termination of the Trust as herein provided, the Trust shall, nevertheless, continue for the sole purpose  
of dissolution, and the Trust Fund shall be used by the Trustees for the sole purpose of carrying on health and welfare  
benefits then in effect to Participants then employed by Contributing Employers until such funds are completely  
exhausted. Upon exhaustion of the funds, the Trust shall be completely terminated.  
At such time as the Trust is terminated, the Trustees shal! render a final accounting of the affairs of the Trust and  
the Trust Fund to the Union and to all then Contributing Employers, and, thereafter, they shall have no further duties  
or responsibilities.  
### ARTICLE X_  
### Trustees  
The Board of Trustees is the sponsor of any Plan established pursuant to this Trust. The individual Trustees listed  
above, their successors, and any Administrator designated by the Trustees shall be, for purposes of ERISA, the named  
fiduciaries with respect to any such Plan.  
The Board of Trustees shall consist of six Trustees. The Contributing Employers, through the Painting and  
Decorating Contractors of America, Chapter No. 2, and the Union shall each designate three Trustees. The individual  
Trustees so designated shall collectively constitute the Board of Trustees.  
The Trustees are authorized to hire an Administrator and delegate to such Administrator such authority and  
responsibility as they determine to delegate and which may lawfully be delegated. The Trustees are further authorized  
to appoint one from their number to serve as Managing Trustee and to delegate to such Managing Trustee such  
authority and responsibility as they determine to delegate and which may lawfully be delegated. The Trustees may  
also establish committees or subcommittees composed of one or more Trustees to carry out any of their duties under  
this Trust, including the collection of employer contributions or other amounts due to the Trust.  
The Trustees shal! designate one Trustee as Chairman to serve for a term of one year, commencing with the date  
of election and until a successor Chairman is thereafter selected, for the purpose of presiding at the meetings of the  
Trustees. The Chairman shall initially be selected from the Trustees representing the Union, the following year from  
the Trustees representing the Employers, and thereafter similarly alternately selected.  
A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of the presence at the meeting of at least four Trustees, two  
of whom represent the Employers and two of whom represent the Union. Decisions of the Trustees shall be made by  
majority vote. If an unequal number of Employer and Union Trustees attends a meeting, the voting power of the group  
with fewer Trustees present shall be and stand increased to that of the group with more Trustees present so that there  
shall be equal voting strength between Employer and Union Trustees at all times at such meeting.  
A deadlock shall be deemed to exist whenever either of the following situations arises: (1) a proposal, nomination,  
motion, resolution, or other matter is voted upon, and the votes cast are evenly divided and remain evenly divided;  
or (2) aquorum is lacking at a meeting duly called and a majority of the Trustees present declare a deadlock due to  
—3—  
the inability to obtain a quorum. In the event of such deadlock in either case arising, the Employer Trustees and the  
Union Trustees shall meet promptly for the purpose of agreeing upon an impartial umpire to break such deadlock by  
casting the deciding vote or deciding any dispute in question or matter under consideration. In the event of the inability  
of the Employer Trustees and Union Trustees to agree upon the selection of such impartial umpire, then an impartial  
umpire shall, on the petition of either the Employer Trustees or Union Trustees, be appointed by the Chief Judge of  
the United States District Court for the district wherein the principal office of the Trust is located. The decision of any  
such impartial umpire shal] be final and binding on the Trustees and all concermed.  
Either the Chairman or the Managing Trustee or any two Trustees may call a meeting of the Trustees or direct the  
Administrator to call such a meeting at any time by giving at least five days’ written notice of the time and place thereof  
to each Trustee. Any meeting socalled may be postponed once for a reasonable period upon the request of any Trustee  
upon showing of justifiable cause therefor. Any meeting of the Trustees may also be held at any time without notice  
if all of the Trustees consent thereto or if all attend and act. If all of the Trustees shall concur in writing upon any  
proposition, no formal meeting thereon need be held by the Trustees. The Managing Trustee, in the written notice,  
shall notify the Trustees of the subjects to be discussed, but this shal! not be construed to limit any other subjects of  
discussion properly placed before the meeting.  
The Trustees may receive reimbursement for expenses property and actually incurred in the performance of their  
duties as Trustees when approved by the majority of the Trustees. Reasonable compensation may be paid to the  
Trustees for services rendered in the performance of their duties as Trustees, provided such payments are made in  
accordance with the Federal and State laws and regulations then in effect governing trusts. Additionally, the Trustees  
may receive reimbursement for expenses incurred in attending educational conferences, seminars, and meetings,  
provided that the Trustees determine in each case that the subject matter of the conference, seminar, or meeting is  
relevant to the administration of this Trust and that the expenses incurred are reasonable.  
Any Trustee may resign by giving 30 days’ notice in the United States Mail to the other Trustees and to the Board  
of his intent to so resign. The Union may discharge any of the Trustees appointed by it by giving 30 days’ notice in  
the United States Mail to that Trustee, to the other Trustees, and to the Board of such intent to discharge. The Employers  
may discharge any Trustee appointed by them by giving 30 days’ notice in the United States Mail to that Trustee, to  
the other Trustees, and to the Board of such intent to discharge. The resignation or removal of a Trustee shall be  
automatic at the end of the 30-day period of notification either by che Trustee or by the Union or the Employers, as  
described above, of resignation or removal. In the event that any of the Trustees selected by the Union shall die, be  
incapable of acting hereunder, resign, or be removed, a successor Trustee shall immediately be appointed by the Union  
and duly certified by the Board. In the event any of the Trustees selected by the Employers shall die, become incapable  
of acting hereunder, resign, or be removed, a successor Trustee shall immediately be appointed by the Employers and  
duly certified by the Board. Failure of the Union or the Employers to select a successor Trustee promptly shall not  
prevent the remaining Trustees from carrying on the affairs of this Trust.  
The Unity Hall Corporation, the Union, and the Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare, Pension,  
Group Insurance, Vacation, and Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Trusts shall have no role whatsoever in the  
selection or removal of Employer Trustees.  
### ARTICLE XI  
### Trustees’ Powers and Duties  
The Trustees shal} have general supervision of the operation of the Trust Fund and shall conduct the business and  
activities of the same according to law and this Trust Agreement. The Trustees shall have the discretionary authority  
to construe the provisions of this Trust Agreement, any Plan adopted hereunder, or any other documents adopted or  
executed by the Trustees, including provisions of such documents relating to benefits and eligibility for benefits, and  
any such construction thereof shall be final and binding on all interested persons. The Trustees shall have the obligation  
to receive, hold, and administer monies or other funds received by them from Employers (and from any Employer who  
may hereafter agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of this instrument) or otherwise in Trust under the terms  
hereof. In accordance with Section 302 of the Labor Management Relations Act, the Trustees shal! cause to be  
conducted an annual audit of the assets of this Trust.  
The Trustees shall deposit all monies received by them in such bank or banks or other financial institutions as they  
may designate for the purpose and may, in their sole and absolute discretion, if they deem it advisable, invest and  
—4—~  
reinvest such funds as they do not require for current expenditure in such securities as are legal for the investment of  
trust funds under the laws of the United States and of the State of Missouri and such other property, including real  
property, which they deem to be a proper investment. The Trustees may execute any and al] documents required for  
the purchase or sale of any such investment.  
The Trustees may employ one or more Investment Managers or agents to provide for the safekeeping and  
investment of all or part of the assets of the Fund and may delegate to such Investment Managers or agents all or such  
of their discretionary powers and duties with respect to the investment and reinvestment of funds as the Trustees in  
their sole discretion deem to be in the best interest of the Trust, its participants and beneficiaries. The Trustees may  
alter, amend, or revoke any such delegation at their discretion. Investment Managers shall be such as meet the  
definitions and qualifications of ERISA. No Trustee shall be hable for the acts or omissions of any such Investment  
Manager except as may be required by federal law.  
The payment of money to the Trustees shall discharge the person or persons paying or transferring the same, and  
such person or persons shall not be bound to see to the application or be answerable for the loss or misapplication  
thereof.  
The Trustees shall have the authority to reasonably request of any Employer, and an Employer, when soreasonably  
requested, shall furnish to the Trustees such information, documents, and reports as may be necessary in the  
performance of their duties under this Agreement and Declaration of Trust.  
The Trustees and all their agents who handle funds of this Trust shall furnish such bond as may be required by law,  
shall be responsible at all times for all monies received by them, and shall be responsible, further, for the proper  
execution and administration of the terms of the Trust. The Trustees shall have the authority to purchase fiduciary  
insurance on terms consistent with the law.  
The Trustees shall have authority to sue on behalf of the Trust to recover any monies owing to the Trust, to enforce  
any obligation respecting said Trust, or both. The Trustees shall have authority to defend any claim asserted against  
the Trust. The Trustees are empowered to abandon, compromise, or settle any claim asserted on behalf of or against  
the Trust.  
The Trustees shall not engage in a prohibited transaction within the meaning of ERISA. The Trustees shail not be  
precluded from applying to the Secretary of Labor for an exemption with respect to a prohibited transaction.  
The Trustees are authorized to employ accountants, actuaries, attorneys, and other professionals to provide necessary  
professional services to the Trust, to any Plan established or maintained pursuant to this Agreement, or to both.  
The foregoing is not intended to limit in any way the powers of the Trustees, it being the intent of the parties hereto  
that the Trustees shall have all implied powers of trustees and power and authority to do ali those things which in the  
opinion of the Trustees may be necessary or desirable for the proper and necessary administration and operation of  
the Trust Fund.  
The Trustees’ duties under this Agreement shall be discharged solely in the interest of the Participants and  
Beneficiaries (1) for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits for such Participants and Beneficiaries and defraying  
reasonable expenses of administering the Plan; (2) with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circum-  
stances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would use in the  
conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims; (3) by diversifying the investments of the Plan so as  
to minimize the risk of losses, unless, under the circumstances, it is clearly prudent not to do so; and (4) in accordance  
with this Agreement and any Plan established or maintained pursuant to this Agreement insofar as they are consistent  
with the provisions of Title I of ERISA.  
The Trustees shall be responsible for the actions of their Co-Trustees, other fiduciaries, or the agents and  
employees of the Trust only to the extent provided by ERISA.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### Employer Liability  
The liability of any individual Employer to the Fund shall in no event extend to the obligations of another  
Contnbuting Employer or other Contributing Employers.  
5 —  
### ARTICLE XI  
### Construction and Severability  
With respect to any Plan established or maintained pursuant to this this Agreement and any such Plan  
shall together constitute and be construed as the “Plan” for purposes of ERISA. If any portion of this Agreement or  
any Plan established or maintained hereunder shall be declared to be void, then such declaration of voidness shall not  
render the remainder of this Agreementor Plan void unless itis impossible to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.  
This Agreement shall be effective July 9, 1991.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the following parties have agreed to this Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust  
Agreement.  
### EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE UNION TRUSTEES DATE  
### DANIEL LEACH 11/7/91 JOSEPH SHATRO 11/7/91  
### WILLIAM SMITH 11/7/91 MARTIN BERGERON 11/7/91  
### JOSEPH WARD 11/7/91 JIM SMITH  
### PLAN AMENDMENT PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PLAN AMENDMENTS  
For any Participant whose hour bank credits were canceled for any of the following reasons:  
(a) taking a clearance card; or  
(b) taking a non-covered position with a contributing employer.  
that Participant will have the canceled hour bank credits reinstated if he reestablishes eligibility prior to the expiration  
of 6 months from the date on which the Participant lost coverage, without regard to extensions of credits for COBRA  
or any other self pay coverage. This provision applies to any Participant whose reestablishment of eligibility occurs  
on or after July I, 1994. This amendment has no effect on the provisions of the Plan which state how hour bank credits  
are otherwise canceled.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO _ 1-11-94 DANIEL LEACH 1-11-94  
### MARTIN BERGERON 1-11-94 WILLIAM SMITH 1-11-94  
### JAMES SMITH i-1f-94 MIKIL KNIGHT 3-9-94  
### AMENDMENT TO THE PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### WELFARE TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust hereby adopt the following amendment to the  
Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust and Plan Agreement. The first paragraph of the preamble is amended  
to provide the following individuals are the Trustees of the Welfare Trust: JOSEPH SHATRO, MARTIN BERGERON,  
### JIM SMITH, DANIEL LEACH, WILLIAM SMITH and MIKIL KNIGHT.  
### UNION TRUSTEES: DATE MANAGEMENT TRUSTEES: DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO 3/8/94 DANIEL LEACH 3/8/94  
### MARTIN BERGERON 3/8/94 WILLIAM SMITH 3/8/94  
### JIM SMITH MIKIL KNIGHT 3/8/94  
—8—  
### AMENDMENT TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### WELFARE TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust hereby adopt the following amendment to  
the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust and Plan Agreement.  
The first paragraph of the preamble is amended to provide the following individuals as the Trustees of the  
### Welfare Trust: JOSEPH SHATRO, MARTIN BERGERON, THOMAS ERNST, WILLIAM SMITH, DANIEL  
### LEACH and MIKIL KNIGHT.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO 5-14-96 WILLIAM SMITH 5-14-96  
### MARTIN BERGERON 5-14-96 DANIEL LEACH 5-14-96  
### THOMAS ERNST 5-14-96 MIKIL KNIGHT 5-14-96  
### _AMENDMENT TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### WELFARE TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Counci] No. 2 Welfare Trust hereby adopt the following amendment to  
the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust and Plan Agreement.  
The first paragraph of the preamble is amended to provide the following individuals as the Trustees of the  
### Welfare Trust: JOSEPH SHATRO, RICHARD BRYAN, THOMAS ERNST, WILLIAM SMITH, DANIEL  
### LEACH and MIKIL KNIGHT.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO 11-19-96 WILLIAM SMITH 11-19-96  
### RICHARD BRYAN 11-19-96 DANIEL LEACH 11-19-96  
### THOMAS ERNST 1-9-97 MIKIL KNIGHT t-19-97.  
10—  
### TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### - WELFARE TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust hereby adopt the following amendment to  
the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust and Plan Agreement.  
The first paragraph of the preamble is amended to provide the following individuals as the Trustees of the  
### Welfare Trust: RICHARD BRYAN, THOMAS ERNST, GENE KAPPLER, MIKIL KNIGHT, DANIEL LEACH  
### and WILLIAM SMITH.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 11-18-97 WILLIAM SMITH 11-18-97  
### THOMAS ERNST 11-18-97 DANIEL LEACH 11-18-97  
### GENE KAPPLER 11-18-97 MIKIL KNIGHT 11-18-97  
  
### AMENDMENT NO. 6  
### TO THE PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### WELFARE TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust hereby adopt the following  
amendment to the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust and Plan Agreement.  
The first paragraph of the preamble is amended to provide the following individuals as the Trustees  
### of the Welfare Trust: RICHARD BRYAN, GENE KAPPLER, KEVIN KENNY, WILLIAM SMITH,  
### DANIEL LEACH and DONALD THOMAS.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 7-13-99 WILLIAM SMITH 9-14-99  
### GENE KAPPLER 7-13-99 DANIEL LEACH 7-13-99  
### KEVIN KENNY 7-13-99 DONALD THOMAS [1-9-99  
ee  
### AMENDMENT NO. 7  
### TO THE PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### WELFARE TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
Effective on January 1, 2001, the Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust hereby  
amend the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Trust and Plan Agreement by deleting the second  
paragraph of Article V and replacing it with the following:  
The contributions as established from time to time by the collective  
bargaining agreement shall be due on the date set out in the collective  
bargaining agreement. If the payment of contributions is delinquent, the  
Employer shall be assessed liquidated damages of 10% up to 30 days of  
delinquency. Thereafter, liquidated damages of I'/2% shall be assessed,  
compounded monthly until the full contribution is made.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 2-8-0] WILLIAM SMITH 2-13-01  
### GENE KAPPLER 2-8-0] DANIEL LEACH  
### KEVIN KENNY 2-8-01 DONALD THOMAS 2-14-01  
—13—  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### ARTICLE I  
### ARTICLE II  
### ARTICLE III  
### ARTICLE IV  
### ARTICLE V  
### ARTICLE VI  
### ARTICLE VII  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### ARTICLE IX  
### ARTICLE X  
### ARTICLE XI  
### ARTICLE XI  
### ARTICLE XII  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### ARTICLE XV  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### PENSION TRUST  
### AND  
### PLAN AGREEMENT  
(Restated Effective July 1, 1994)  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Introduction 2  
2  
Name and Objectives 5  
### PRG ON 5  
Employer Participation 6  
Accrual of Benefits 6  
Conditions for Benefit Entitlement/Types of Benefits 10  
x 15  
Forms of Benefit Payments 16  
Application for and Timing of Benefit Distribution 19  
Benefit Claims Procedure 20  
Limitations Of Benefits 21  
Miscellaneous Provisions £5  
Right to Amend 29  
TOrMiMation OO  
Merger or Consolidation 31  
Trustees’ Powers and Duties 32  
Governmental Approval 33  
Effective Date 34  
_—|—  
THIS AGREEMENT, first made and entered into as of the first day of July, 1964, by and between ST. LOUIS  
PAINTERS AND DECORATORS JOINT TRADE BOARD, INC., a Missouri pro forma decree corporation,  
hereinafter referred to as the BOARD, and any other employers, hereinafter referred to as EMPLOYERS, who adhere  
to the area practice and who have a contract with Painters District Council No. 2, hereinafter referred to as the UNION,  
and certain named individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are JOSEPH SHATRO, RICHARD J.  
### BRYAN, JAMES E. ENGEL, H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., RICHARD SUNDERMEYER, SR.,andDAN WIENSTROER.  
WHEREAS, the Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust have amended this Plan from time  
to time, pursuant to authority contained herein,  
WHEREAS, it is desired to amend the Plan by restating the Plan in its entirety in order to conform to the Employee  
Retirement Income Security Act of as amended, the United States Internal Revenue Code, as amended,  
the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, and other laws.  
NOW, THEREFORE, said Agreement as amended is hereby continued and restated effective July 1, 1994, unless  
specifically provided otherwise herein, for the benefit of such persons as are now or shall hereafter become entitled  
to the benefits of this Trust pursuant to the terms hereof as follows:  
### ARTICLE I  
### Definitions  
1.1 Tr ee . “Trust Agreement” means those provisions of this Pension Trust and Plan Agreement  
which govern the creation, existence and administration of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust.  
1.2  Goverming Law. “Governing Law” means the laws of the State of Missouri, concerning the validity,  
construction and administration of the Trust, except to the extent federal law preempts state law, in which cases federal  
law shall be the governing law.  
1.3 Trustees. “Trustees” means the Board of Trustees as established and constituted from time to time in  
accordance with the Trust Agreement.  
1.4 Pension Plan or Plan. “Pension Plan” or “Plan” means those documents as adopted by the Trustees and  
as thereafter amended by the Trustees, which gover the creation, existence and administration of the Pension Plan.  
1.5 Union. “Union” means Painters District Council No. 2.  
1.6 Contributing Employer or Employer. “Contributing Employer” or “Employer” means an Employer  
signatory to a Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Union requiring contributions to this Fund and any other  
Employer authorized by the Trust Agreement to contribute to this Fund, provided:  
A. The Employer has been accepted as a Contributing Employer by the Trustees, and  
B. The Trustees have not, by resolution, terminated the status as a “Contributing Employer”  
because the Employer has failed, for a period of 120 days after the due date, to make contributions to the  
Fund as provided for in its Agreement.  
An Employer shall not be deemed a Contributing Employer simply because it is part of a controlled group of  
corporations or of a trade or business under common control, some other part of which is a Contributing Employer.  
1.7 Collective Bargaining Agreement. “Collective Bargaining Agreement” means an agreement between the  
Union and an Employer which requires contributions to the Fund.  
1.8 Covered Employment. “Covered Employment’ means employment of an Employee by an Employer.  
However, “Covered Employment” shall notinclude employment by an Employer after termination of that Employer’ s  
status as a Contributing Employer for failure to pay contributions due pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.6.  
— 2  
1.9 Contribution Period. “Contribution Period” means, with respect to a category of employment, the period  
during which the Employer is a Contributing Employer with respect to the category of employment.  
1.10 Date. “Contribution Date” mean the date of commencement of contribution as set forth  
in an agreement between the Employer and the Union as being the date on which the Employer’s obligation to  
contribute to the Pension Trust shall start.  
1.11 Participant. “Participant” means Pensioner or an Employee who meets the requirements for participation  
in the Plan as set forth in Article III.  
1.12 Employee. “Employee” means a person who is an Employee of an Employer and who is: (a) covered by  
a Collective Bargaining Agreement; or (b) a person for whom any other Employer authorized by the Trust Agreement  
to contribute to this Fund makes contributions to this Fund.  
The term “Employee” shall not include any self-employed person or sole proprietor of a business organization,  
or any other person who 1s prohibited by federal law from participating in the Plan.  
1.13 Pensioner. “Pensioner” means a person to whom a pension under this Plan is being paid or to whom a  
pension would be paid but for time for administrative processing.  
1.14 Beneficiary. “Beneficiary” means a person (other than a Pensioner) who is receiving benefits under this  
Plan because of his or her designation for such benefits by a Participant or by provisions of this Plan. See also Sections  
§.2 and 6.7C.  
1.15 ormal Retiremen Oo etl . “Norma! Retirement Age” means age 65 or, if later,  
the age of the Participant on the fifth anniversary of his participation. Participation before a Permanent Break in  
Service shal] not be counted. “Normal Retirement Date” means the first date of the month coincident with or next  
following the month in which the Participant reaches his “Normal Retirement  
1.16 Plan Year. “Plan Ycar” means the twelve-month period from July | through the next June 30. For purposes  
of ERISA regulations, the Pian Year shall serve as the vesting computation period, the benefit accrual computation  
period, and after the initial period of employment, the computation period for eligibility to participate in the Plan.  
1.17 Fiscal Year. “Fiscal Year” means the period from July 1 through the next June 30 and is the period for  
which various governmental reports are required to be filed by the Plan Administrator.  
1.18 Yearof Participation. For the purposes of compliance with Regulation 2530 of the Department of Labor,  
a full “Year of Participation” means a Plan Year during the Contnbution Period in which a Participant has completed  
2401 or more hours of work in Covered Employment, for Plan Years through the Plan Year ending June 30, 1993. For  
Plan Years beginning July 1, 1993 and thereafter, a full “Year of Participation” means a Plan Year during the  
Contribution Period in which a Participant has completed 320! or more hours in Covered Employment.  
119  Hourof Service. “Hour of Service” means:  
A. Anhour of service is each hour for which an employee is paid, or entitled to payment, for the performance  
of duties for the employer during the applicable computation period.  
B. An hour of service is each hour for which an employee is paid, or entitled to payment, by the employer  
on account of a period of time during which no duties are performed (irrespective of whether the  
employmentrelationship has terminated) due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity (including disability),  
layoff, jury duty, military duty or leave of absence, except that:  
1. No more than 501 hours of service shall be credited under this paragraph t.19B to an employee on  
account of any single continuous period during which the employee performs no duties (whether or  
not such period occurs in a single computation period);  
2. Anhour for which an employee is directly or indirectly paid, or entitled to payment, on account of a  
period during which no duties are performed is not required to be credited to the employee if such  
—_  
payment ts made or due under a plan maintained solely for purpose of complying with applicable  
workmen’s compensation, or unemployment compensation or disability insurance laws; and  
3. Hours of service are not required to be credited for a payment which solely reimburses an employee  
for medical or medically related expenses incurred by the employee.  
For purposes of this paragraph 1.19B, a payment shall be deemed to be madc by or duc from an employer  
regardless of whether such payment is made by or due from the employer directly or indirectly through,  
among others, a trust fund or insurer, to which the employer contributes or pays premiums and regardless  
of whether contributions made or due to the trust fund, insurer or other entity are for the benefit of particular  
employees in the aggregate.  
C. each hour for which back pay, irrespective of mitigation of damages, is either awarded  
or agreed to by the employer. The same hours of service shal! not be credited both under paragraph 1.19A  
or 1.19B, as the case may be, and under this paragraph 1.19C.  
D. Effective July 1, 1986, for purposes of computing hours for determining whether a one-year break in  
service has occurred gnly, an hour of service includes each hour up to a maximum of 501 hours, during  
a period of absence from covered employment, if the absence from such employment was due to any one  
of the following:  
1. Pregnancy of the Participant;  
2. Birth of a child of the Participant;  
3. Placement of a child with the Participant in connection with the adoption of such child by the  
Participant, or  
4. Caring for such child by the Participant.  
The amount of hours to be credited for the period of absence shall be the number of hours that normally  
would have been credited to the Participant, but for the absence from covered employment, if such an  
amount can be ascertained. If this amount is not able to be ascertained, the Participant shall be credited  
with eight hours of service for each working day during the leave. The hours for service shall be credited  
in the vesting computation year in which they occur, if the leave occurs totally within one vesting  
computation year. If the leave takes place in more than one vesting computation year, the hours of service  
shall be credited in the vesting year during which the absence begins, if the crediting is necessary to prevent  
a break in service; otherwise the hours of service shall be credited in the following vesting computation  
year.  
Hours of service under this subparagraph shall be computed only for purposes of determining whether a  
one-year break in service has occurred. Such hours will not be counted toward credited service nor will  
they be counted toward determining whether the Participant has completed a year of service for vesting  
purposes.  
The Participant is required to furnish, upon request by the Plan Administrator or an authorized  
representative thereof, such timely information as the Plan may reasonably require to establish that the  
absence was for one of the reasons stated in this subparagraph and/or to establish the number of days for  
which there was such an absence.  
E. Effective January 1, 1994, an hour of service for purposes of determining whether a Participant has  
completed a year of service for vesting purposes will include hours of service the Participant would have  
earned but for his having taken approved leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act. Such hours will  
not be counted for purposes of benefit accrual.  
Hours of Service shall be computed and credited in accordance with Department of Labor Regulations 2530.200b.  
—4—  
   
1.20 Work. “Work” means each hour for which an Employee is paid, or entitled to payment, by an Employer  
for services performed.  
1.21 Continuous Employment. “Continuous Employment” means any Periods of Service not separated by quit,  
discharge, or other termination of employment between the periods.  
1.22 Contributions. “Contributions” shall mean the rate or amount to be paid to the Trust Fund as specified in  
collective bargaining agreements between the Employer and the Union.  
1.23 Gender. Except as the context may specifically require otherwise, use of the masculine gender shall be  
understood to inchide both masculine and feminine gender.  
1.24 Annuity Starting Date. The “Annuity Starting Date” is the first day of the first period for which an amount  
is payable as an annuity. The Participant may elect this Annuity Starting Date after fulfilling all of the conditions for  
entitlement to benefits, subject to the following:  
A. The date must be at least 30 days and no more than 90 days after the Participant has received the Notice  
of right to waive Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity described in Section 8.4. The Notice will be given  
to the Participant upon request. The Notice does not apply to Alternate Payees or Beneficiaries.  
B. The Annuity Starting Date will not be later than the Participant’s Required Beginning Date as defined in  
Section 9.4A.  
A Participant who begins receiving benefits before his or her Normal Retirement Age and then earns additional  
benefit accruals under the Plan through re-employment will have a separate Annuity Starting Date determined under  
this Section with respect to the additional accruals, except that an Annuity Starting Date that is on or after the  
Participant’s Normal Retirement Age shall apply for any additional benefits accrued through re-employment after that  
date.  
1.25  Non-Bargained Employee. A “Non-Bargained Employee” ts an employee who is not covered by a  
collective bargaining agreement between the Union and a Contributing Employer, but for whom contributions are  
made to this Fund. This term includes any employee of the Painters District Council No. 2, Painters District Council  
No. 2 Unity Hall Corporation or any employee of the Trustees of Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Plan, Pension  
Plan, Vacation Fund or Apprenticeship and Journeyman Fund, to the extent the Employer has agreed to make  
contributions to this Fund on behalf of said employee.  
### ARTICLE If  
Name and jectives  
This trust is to be known as the “Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust”. This Agreement contains the  
governing provisions of the Trust, as well as the provisions of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Plan. This  
Agreement shall be known as the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement.  
This Trust is designed to provide retirement, survivor, disability and death benefits for Participants and  
Beneficiaries, who are entitled to receive such benefits as defined in this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE Il  
### Participation  
The term Participant shall mean any Employce of a Contributing Employer who is engaged in Covered  
Employment during the Contribution Period for that Employer. An Employee becomes a Participant upon completion.  
of one hour of covered service. Unless otherwise specifically provided, a Participant’s participation ceases as of the  
first day of the Plan Year following the Plan Year during which the Participant experiences a one year break in service,  
as defined in Section 7.1A, unless such Participant is then a pensioner.  
An Employee who has lost his status as a Participant shall again become a Participant upon completion of one hour  
of covered service.  
—5—  
### ARTICLE IV  
### Employer Participation  
When an Employer of one or more eligible Employees signifies its agreement to the Trustees in writing to pay for  
the benefits as provided herein and to be bound by the terms of this Plan and Trust, such Employer shall, if accepted  
by the Trustees, become a Contributing Employer. The Trustees have the right to refuse to accept an Employer as a  
contributing Employer or to terminate an Employer’s status as a contributing Employer, in their discretion.  
Each Contributing Employer who agrees in writing to contribute for the purpose of providing benefits under this  
Plan and executes an agreement subscribing to and being bound by the terms of this agreement, shall contribute the  
money per hour as shall be negotiated from time to time by Employers and the Union on behalf of Participants who  
shall be employed by Contributing Employers as evidenced by agreements from time to time between Contributing  
Employers and the Union.  
The contributions as established from time to time in the Agreements shail be due on or before the seventh calendar  
day following the designated weekly pay date day agreed upon between the Contributing Employer and the Union.  
After seven days from the agreed pay date, a Contributing Employer shall be assessed liquidated damages of 10% up  
to 30 days of delinquency; after which liquidated damages of 1-1/2% of the then current delinquency for each month  
or part of a month, shall be assessed and compounded monthly, until the full contribution is made.  
In any legal action instituted to recover delinquent contributions or to recover unpaid liquidated damages, the  
Contributing Employer shal! be obligated to pay reasonable attorneys’ fees and accounting fees in addition to all  
principal amounts due and in addition to al other relief prescribed by law.  
### ARTICLE V  
ccrual of pene  
5.1 General Rules. This Article sets forth the rules for determining and computing the amount of a  
Participant’s accrued benefit under the Plan. The accumulation and retention of accrued benefit credits are subject  
to the requirements concerning Years of Vesting Service. The Benefit Amounts are subject to reduction on account  
of the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity (Article VIII) and modification if the Participant retires with an annuity  
Starting date other than hts normal retirement date, or with a form of benefits other than the normal form of benefits.  
Eligibility depends on meeting the conditions for benefit entitlement (Article VI) and/or the rules concerning  
Years of Vesting service and permanent break in service.  
5.2 Normal Form of Benefit. For purposes of this Plan the norma} form of benefits is a life annuity, with a  
60 month guarantee. This form includes the payment of a monthly amount commencing with the Annuity Starting  
Date and continuing until the month in which the Participant dies. If the death of the Participant occurs after his  
Annuity Starting Date, but before aJ] sixty (60) guaranteed monthly payments have been made, the remaining  
payments shall be made to the named beneficiary, if then surviving, or if such beneficiary is not then surviving, to the  
contingent beneficiary, ifthen surviving. Ifno designated beneficiary is surviving at the time of the Participant’s death,  
the remaining payments shall be made to the Participant’s estate. If a beneficiary who is receiving guaranteed  
payments dies before all guaranteed payments are made, payments will continue to the contingent beneficiary, if one  
is then surviving. If no contingent beneficiary is then surviving, the remaining payments will be made to the estate  
of the beneficiary who last received a payment, until ali guaranteed payments have been made.  
The amount of benefit stated in the Plan (Section 5.3) is the amount which the Participant would receive each  
month, if the Participant receives a life annuity with a 60 month guarantee, commencing at normal retirement date.  
In the event the Participant receives a form of payment different from the life annuity with a 60 month guarantee, or  
in the event the Participant begins to receive benefits at a time other than his normal retirement date, the monthly  
amount which the Participant will be entitled to receive will be different from the amount stated in this section. The  
amount received will be the actuarial equivalent of the amount of benefit stated in Section 5.3; that is, it will be the  
—_§6 —  
   
actuarial equivalent of the amount which the Participant would be entitled to under the life annuity with a 60 month  
guarantee form of payment, commencing at normal retirement date.  
5.3 Amount of Benefit Stated in the Normal Benefit Form. The amount of benefit that a Participant accrues  
stated in the normal form of benefits (a life annuity with a 60 month guarantee) commencing at Normal Retirement  
Date, is the sum of the amount determined under subsection 5.3A and the amount determined under Section 5.3B.  
A. The amount determined under this subsection (“accredited past service benefit”) is $2.50 for each year of  
accredited past service for any Participant who participated on and after July 1, 1964, but who commenced  
participation prior to July 1, 1965. An eligible Participant receives a year of accredited past service for  
each continuous year of service prior to July 1, 1965. No Participant who first participated in the Plan after  
July 1, 1965 shall be entitled to past service credits. The amount determined under this subsection is subject  
to the rules concerning permanent breaks in service.  
B. The amount determined under this subsection future service benefit’) is the sum of the  
amounts earned by the Participant under all applicable tables. Accredited future service benefit will be  
accrued under this subsection for each 12 consecutive month period commencing with July 1, 1964, and  
subsequent anniversaries thereof (“benefit accrual year”), based on the number of “hours of service”  
completed by the Participant during the particular benefit accrual year, subject to the following rules:  
1. Noaccredited future service benefit will be accrued by a Participant for any benefit accrual year during  
which the Participant fails to complete at least 400 hours of service.  
2. Theaccrual of accredited future service benefit under this subsection is subject to the rules concerning  
permanent breaks in service.  
3. The amounts set out in these tables are subject to the rules contained in subsection 5.3C.  
The amount of accredited future service benefit accrued by a Participant during each benefit accrual year  
1S:  
Total Hours of Service Future Service Credits Future Service Credits  
as defined below from from 7/1//64 thru 6/30/72 7/1/72 thru 6/30/76  
July 1 to June 30 each year  
400 to and including 600 hours $1.50 $1.50  
601 to 800 hours 1.80 2.25  
801 to 1,000 hours 2.106 3.00  
1,001 to 1,200 hours 2.40 3.75  
1,200 to 1,400 hours 2.70 4.50  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 3.00 5,25  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 3.30 6.00  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 3.60 _ 6.75  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 3.90 7.50  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 4,20 8.25  
2,401' and over 4.20 8.25  
12401 is considered full-time employment for purposes of accrual of accredited future service benefits for all accrual years through  
the year ending June 30. 1993. For benefit accrual beginning July 1, 1993 and thereafter, 3,201 hours of service is considered full-time  
employment for purposes of accrual of accredited future service benefits.  
—_—7—  
Tota! Hours of Future Service Future Service Future Service Future Service  
Service as Credits Credits Credits Credits  
defined below 7/1/76 thru 7/1/78 thru 7/1/80 thru 7/1/84 thru  
from July 1 to 6/30/78 6/30/80 6/30/84 11/30/84  
June 30 each year  
400 to and including  
600 hours $3.00 $4.50 $5.65 $6.50  
601 to 800 hours 4.50 6.75 8.45 9.60  
801 to 1,000 hours 6.00 9.00 11.25 12.75  
1,001 to 1,200 hours 7.50 11.25 14.05 15.90  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 9.00 13.50 16.90 19.05  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 10.50 15.75 19.70 22.20  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 12.00 18.00 22.50 25.35  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 13.50 20.25 25.30 28.45  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 15.00 22.50 28.15 31.65  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 16.50 24.75 30.95 34.80  
2,401 and over 16.50 24.75 30,95 34.80  
Total Hours of Service as Subject to Sub-Section 5.3C3 Subject to Sub-Section 5.3C3  
defined below Future Service Future Service  
Credits Credits Credits  
from July 1to June 30 each year 12/1/84 thru thru 6/30/86  
400 to 600 hours $16.25 $21.85  
601 to 800 hours 23.00 30.85  
801 to 1,000 hours 30.00 40.10  
1,001 to 1,200 hours 37.00 49.30  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 44.05 58.60  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 51.00 67.80  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 58.00 77.00  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 65.00 86.25  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 72.00 95.50  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 79.00 104.75  
2,401 and over 79.00 104.75  
Subject to Subsection 5.3C3 Subject to Subsection 5.3C3  
Future Service Credits Future Service Credits  
From 7/1/86 thru 6/30/89 From 7/1/89 thru 6/30/93  
400 to 600 hours $31.45 $35.30  
601 to 800 hours 44,35 49.75  
801 to 1,000 hours 57.40 64.30  
1,00! to 1,200 hours 70.45 78.90  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 83.60 93.60  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 96,65 108.20  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 109.70 122.80  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 122.80 137,40  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 135.90 152.05  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 147.05 164.75  
2,40! and over (47.05 164.75  
Subject to Section 5.3C4  
Total Hours of Service as Subject to Sub-Section 5.3C3 Subject to Sub-Section 5.3C3  
defined below Future Service Credits Future Service Credits  
Credits from July 1 to from 7/1/93 thru 6/30/94 from and after 7/1/94  
June 30 each year  
400 to 600 hours $38.70 $42.10  
601 to 800 hours 54.55 59.40  
801 to t,000 hours 70.50 76.70  
1,00] to 1,200 hours 86.50 94.15  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 102.60 114.60  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 118.60 128.95  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 134.60 146.40  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 150.60 163.75  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 166.70 181.25  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 180.60 196.45  
2,401 to 2,600 hours 197.30 214.60  
2,601 to 2,800 hours 213.10 231.80  
2,801 to 3,000 hours 228.90 249.00  
3,001 to 3,200 hours 244.50 265.90  
3,201 or more 244.50 265.90  
C. The amount of accredited future service accrued by a Participant under the foregoing tables, are subject  
to the following rules:  
I. Any Participant or Beneficiary whose annuity starting date was prior to July 1, 1984 (including  
disability benefits), shall, effective with the monthly payment due on July 1, 1984, receive benefits  
in the amount of his June 1984 payment, increased by 20%.  
The monthly benefit amount of any Participant or Beneficiary whose Annuity Starting Date (including  
disability benefits) is July 1, 1984 or thereafter, shall be based on the greater of:  
a. The Participant’s accrued benefit as of the Annuity Starting Date determined under the tables set  
out in subsection 5.3B; or  
b. The Participant’s accrued benefit as of June 30, 1984 determined under the tables set out in  
subsection 5.3B, increased by 20%.  
2. Notwithstanding other provisions of this Article V and excepting Participants or Beneficiaries of  
Participants who are employed by contributing employers who are signatory to agreements with Sign  
and Pictorial Painters Local Union 774, the accredited future service benefit of any Participant or  
Beneficiary whose Annuity Starting Date is on or after July [, 1985, as of June 30, 1985, shall be the  
benefit computed under the tables set forth in subsection 5.3B as of June 30, 1985, without regard to  
the increase in the foregoing subsection 5.3C1, increased by 20%. The resulting accrued benefit shall  
be added to the accredited future service benefit, if any, accrued for service on and after July 1, 1985,  
to arrive at the Participant’s total accrued benefit.  
3. The tables marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3” do not apply to Participants, who are employed by  
contributing employers who are signatory to agreements with Sign and Pictorial Painters Local Union  
774. The accredited future service benefit accrued by Participants who are employed by contributing  
employers signatory to agreements with Local 774 shall, for any future service benefit accrual year,  
be the amount set out in the last most recently effective table which is not marked “Subject to  
Subsection 5.3C3.” The accrued benefit for such a Participant shall be the total of all amounts accrued  
under the applicable tables which are not marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3”, adjusted by  
Subsection 5.3C1, if applicable.  
4. Notwithstanding the above, Participants shall have their accrued benefit for the period July 1, 1984  
through June 30, 1985 computed under the following table, if the computation results in a higher  
—  
benefit than the combined total! of the accrued benefit computed under the two tables entitled, “Future  
Service Credits 7/1/84 thru 11/30/84” and “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3 Future Service Credits  
thru 6/30/85”:  
Totai Hours of Service 7/1/84 thru 6/30/85  
Plan Year  
400 - 600 $12.19  
601 ~ 800 17.42  
801 - £,000 22.81  
1,001 - 1,200 28.2]  
1,201 - 1,400 33.63  
1,401 - 1,600 39.00  
1,601 - 1,800 44.40  
1,801 - 2,000 49.77  
2,001 - 2,200 $5.19  
2,201 - 2,400 60.58  
2,401 & over 60.58  
This subparagraph does not apply to who were employed by contributing employers who  
are signatory to agreements with Sign and Pictorial Painters Local Union 774 during the periad  
12/1/84 through 6/30/85.  
D. Any Participant or Beneficiary (except for Participants or Beneficiaries of Participants whose benefits are  
based on service for contributing employers who were or are signatory to agreements with Sign and  
Pictorial Painters, Loca] Union 774) whose annuity starting date was prior to January 1, 1992 (including  
disability benefits), shall, effective with the monthly benefit payment due for January 1992, have his  
monthly benefit increased by the greater of five percent (5%) of the monthly payment or Ten Dollars  
($10.00).  
### ARTICLE VI  
ditions fi ittem 0 i  
In order to be entitled to receive benefits under this Plan, a Participant or Beneficiary must meet the requirements  
for one of the types of benefits described in this Article VI.  
6.1 Normal Retirement Benefit. If a Participant reaches his Normal Retirement Date while still an active  
Participant in the Plan (i.e. prior to his Participation ceasing within the meaning of Article III), the Participant shall  
be entitled to a Normal Retirement Benefit. If a Participant reaches his Normal Retirement Date while not an active  
Participant, but has met one of the requirements of Article VII such that he has become vested in his accrued benefit,  
the Participant shall be entitled to a Normal] Retirement Benefit upon reaching his Normal Retirement Date.  
A Normal Retirement Benefit is paid in the form provided under Article VIII and is based on the Participant’s  
accrued benefit as computed under Article V, without reduction for early retirement.  
A Participant who has met the requirements for a Normal Retirement Benefit is entitled to begin to receive benefits  
as of his Normal Retirement Date without regard to whether he continues to work in covered employment and without  
regard to whether he is entitled to Social Security Benefits.  
In the event a Participant accrues additional accredited future service benefits for service after his Normal  
Retirement Annuity Starting Date, he shall be credited with such service. However, any Such additional accredited  
future service shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the actuarial value of any normal retirement benefits paid to  
the Participant subsequent to his Normal Retirement Date. Notwithstanding the reduction set forth in the previous  
sentence, a Participant who completes 1,200 or more hours of service in any Pian Year after his annuity Starting Date,  
shall accrue at least the benefit set forth in the following table:  
—- {9 —  
      
     
Additional Monthly Benefit  
Hours Worked in Plan Year Stated in the Normal Form of Benefit  
       
     
    
   
      
     
800-1999  
$45  
$50  
3,200 or more  
Additional accredited future service earned in any benefit accrual year for service after the Participant’s Normal  
Retirement Date, shall become payable as soon as administratively feasible following the end of that benefit accrual  
year; the first payment shall include retroactive payments to and including the first payment due July 1. The  
Participant’s post normal retirement age election as to the form of benefits will apply to the additional accredited  
service accrued after his Normal Retirement Date.  
6.2 oned Retir Date. Subject to the requirements of subsection 9.4, a Participant who has met the  
requirements for a Normai Retirement Benefit may elect to postpone his Annuity Starting Date to a date of his choice  
after his Normal Retirement Date. In such event, the Participant shall notify the Fund Office of his intent to postpone  
his Annuity Starting Date and, if he knows, of his postponed Annuity Starting Date. The Participant shall, within a  
reasonable time of said notification, receive the notification described in subsection 8.4. The Participant’s election  
period for purposes of subsection 8.3, shall be the ninety (90) day period immediately preceding the Participant’s  
elected Postponed Annuity Starting Date. In the event of a Postponed Annuity Starting Date, the amount of  
Participant’s monthly benefit shall be actuarially adjusted to reflect the later commencement date. The actuarial  
adjustment for any additional accredited service which accrues for service after the Participant’s Normal Retirement  
Date shall run from the date that the benefits would have first been payable (i.e., September i following the end of  
the benefit accrual year in which the benefits accrued). In no event shall the Participant be permitted to postpone his  
Annuity Starting Date to a date after his “Required Beginning Date,” as defined in Section 9.4A.  
6.3 Early Retirement Benefit.  
A. A Participant may elect an Early Retirement Benefit (to be computed in accordance with Section 6.3D by  
electing an Annuity Starting Date at any time before his Normal Retirement Date, after mecting the  
following eligibility requirements:  
1. Attainment of age 62, and  
2. Completion of ten (10) years of vesting credit under the Plan.  
B. Effective July 1, 1988, and thereafter, the following provisions shall apply for all Participants except  
Participants who are employed by Contributing Employers who are signatory to agreements with Sign and  
Pictorial Painters Local Union 774 (the early retirement eligibility and benefit amount of these excluded  
Participants are to continue to be determined under subsection 6.3A).  
1. A Participant may elect an Early Retirement Benefit (to be computed in accordance with Section 6.3D)  
by electing an Annuity Starting Date at any time before his Normal Retirement Date, after meeting  
the following eligibility requirements:  
  
6.4  
a. Attainment of age 60, and  
b. Completion of ten (10) years of vesting credit under the Plan.  
2. A Participant may elect an Early Retirement Benefit (to be computed without the reduction set forth  
in Section 6.3D) by electing an Annuity Starting Date at any time before his Normal Retirement Date,  
after meeting the following eligibility requirements:  
a. Attainment of age 60, and  
b. Completion of ten (10) years of vesting service under the Plan, and  
c. Accrual of twenty-five (25) years of credited service, as defined herein. For purpose of this  
Section 6.3B2, a year of credited service is any year in which the Participant accrued any benefit  
under the Plan (including a year of past service credit under the Plan). In addition, as to  
Participants who were Participants in the Plan as of July 1, 1988, a year of credited service for  
purposes of this Section 6.3B2 includes any year of service within the geographic jurisdiction  
of Painters District Council No. 2, as it was constituted on July 1, 1988, under a collective  
bargaining agreement to which a union affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Painters  
was a party.  
C. Except as specified in Section 8.2 below, the Early Retirement Benefit shal] be paid in the Normal Form  
of Benefits under the Plan (a life annuity with a 60 month guarantee). The Participant may elect any  
Annuity Starting Date after the date of his election and after meeting the applicable eligibility requirements.  
. Retirement Benefit which the Participant will be entitled to receive each month, stated  
in the form of a life annuity with a sixty (60) month guarantee will be the Participant’s Normal Benefit  
Amount, computed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3, reduced by of one percent  
(1/2 of 1%) for each full month that the Participant is younger than age 65 as of his Early Retirement  
Annuity Starting Date.  
For any such additional accredited future service, the Participant is entitled to elect Annuity Starting  
Date(s), and for each such election, the Participant will receive the notices and election options set forth  
in Article VIII. Likewise, the spousal consent requirements of Article VIIT will continue to apply to any  
such election. Notwithstanding the above, the first valid election of an Annuity Starting Date and Form  
of Benefits which the Participant makes after his Normal Retirement Age will govern all additional  
benefits accrued thereafter.  
Total and Permanent Disability Benefit.  
. A Participant who becomes totally and permanently disabled, while still a Participant in the Plan, and after  
the Participant has earned ten (10) years of vesting credit, may elect to receive the Total and Permanent  
Disability Benefits described in this Section.  
For purposes of this Article, participation ceases on the first day of the Plan Year following the Plan Year  
during which a Participant experiences a one year break in service as defined in Section 7.3A.  
For purposes of this Article, effective March 1, 1986, a Participant shall be deemed to be totally and  
permanently disabled only if he is determined to be totally and permanently disabled by the Social Security  
Administration.  
The Benefit provided by this Article is not available to a former Participant whose participation ceased  
within the meaning of this Section, prior to his becoming disabled. The Benefit provided by this Article  
is not available to a Participant who the Trustees determine has become disabled while engaged in the  
commission of a felony or as a result of willful intention to injure himself or to induce an illness that could  
result in disability.  
B. Such Participant who shall be so certified as totally and permanently disabled shall be entitled to receive  
a monthly disability pension based on his accrued benefits (but in no event less than Twenty-five Dollars  
($25.00) per month), commencing with the month in which he is eligible to receive his first disability  
payment from the Social Security Administration and he shall continue to receive such disability pension  
until the earliest of death, recovery trom his total and permanent disability, the election of an Early  
Retirement Benefit, or attainment of Normal Retirement Age.  
Upon attaining Normal Retirement Age (or at Early Retirement Annuity Starting Date, if elected by the  
Participant), the Participant's Benefits shall convert to one of the forms of benefit payable for the Normal  
Retirement Benefit (or Early Retirement Benefit) and the Total and Permanent Disability Benefit shall  
cease. At that time the Participant shall receive the notices and elections that a Participant would receive  
at Normal Retirement Age. The monthly benefit after converting to Early or Normal  
Retirement Benefit will in no event be less than Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) per month.  
C. Nothing in this Section shall affect the right of a Participant who is otherwise eligible for any benefit under  
this Plan. Nor shall the receipt of benefits under this Section cause a reduction in the amount of retirement  
or other benefits which may be due to the Participant or his beneficiary under other provisions of this Plan.  
A Participant who receives benefits under this Section shall be entitled to the same retirement benefits  
(Preretirement Survivor Annuity, Early Retirement Benefit and Normal Retirement Benefit) in the same  
form, under the same conditions and with the same notification and election procedures as he would  
otherwise have been entitled to if he had not received the disability benefits.  
6.5 Death Benefit. Effective March [, (986, in addition to the benefits otherwise provided by this Plan and  
Trust, the Plan and Trust shall pay a death benefit in the amount of $3,000 to the designated beneficiary of any  
Participant who has retired under this Plan on July 1, 1982 or thereafter, provided that the Participant was an active  
Participant at the time of his Annuity Starting Date. For purposes of this paragraph, the term retirement means that  
the Participant commences receiving a benefit payment under this Plan other than a Total and Permanent Disability  
Payment. For purposes of this paragraph, the term active Participant means a Participant whose participation has not  
ceased under Article III.  
Effective with respect to Participants who die September ], 1989 or thereafter and who otherwise meet the  
requirements of this Section 6.5 for a death benefit, the amount of the death benefit shall be $5,000. This increase shall  
not apply to any Participant who was employed by an employer which is signatory to an agreement with Sign and  
Pictorial Painters Local Union 774, during the Plan Year during which the Participant last completed an hour of  
Service.  
Effective with respect to Participants who die October 1, 1991 or thereafter and who otherwise meet the  
requirements of this Section 6.5 for a death benefit, the Participant is eligible for Death Benefit only if the Participant  
was (at the time of his Annuity Starting Date under the Pension Plan), acovered Participant for the Death Benefit under  
the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Fund or on Waiver of Premium for Disability under the Painters District  
Council No. 2 Welfare Fund or the Painters District Council No. 2 Group Insurance Trust.  
6.6 Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity.  
A. General Rule. A Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity (as defined in this Section) is payable to the  
surviving spouse of any Participant who dies after August 22, 1984 but before his Annuity Starting Date,  
who has been married to the surviving spouse for a period of one year immediately preceding the date of  
death, and who had met one of the requirements of Article VII and was therefore vested as of the date of  
his death.  
B. Definition. A Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity is an annuity payable to the surviving spouse  
of a Participant who meets the requirement of Section 6.6A, computed under Section 6.6C.  
lified Preretiremen rvivor Annuity.  
1. Ifa Participant dies after the earliest retirement age under the Plan which applies to that Participant,  
the amount of the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity payable to the surviving spouse 1s the  
amount which would have been payable to the surviving spouse as a survivor annuity if the Participant  
had retired with a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity on the day before the Participant’s Death.  
—~13—  
2.  
If a Participant dies before the earliest retirement age under the Plan which applies to that Participant,  
the amount of the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity payable to the surviving spouse is the  
amount which would have been payable to the surviving spouse as a survivor annuity, if the Participant  
had:  
a. Separated from service on the day he last worked in covered employment;  
b. Survived to the earliest retirement date under the Plan which applies to that Participant.  
c. Retired on that date with a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity, and  
d. Died on the next day.  
Subject to the next succeeding paragraph (6.6C4), the monthly payments to the surviving spouse shall  
commence on the first day of the month coinciding with or following the later of:  
a. The date of the Participant’s death, or  
b. The earliest retirement date under the Plan which applies to that Participant;  
and shall] continue until and including the payment for the month in which the surviving spouse dies.  
No survivorship benefits shall be payable if the Participant’s spouse fails to survive to the date on  
which the annuity payments are to begin. However, in such event, benefits may be payable under  
Section 6.7.  
Notwithstanding the above, the surviving spouse may defer his or her Annuity Starting Date to any  
date on or before the later of:  
a. The Participant’s Normal Retirement Date; or  
b. The first day of the month coincident with or next following the Participant’s 62nd birthday.  
In the event the surviving spouse defers the Annuity Starting Date for the survivorship benefit, the  
amount will be the amount which would have been payable to the surviving spouse as a survivor  
annuity if the Participant had retired with a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity two days before the  
deferred Annuity Starting Date and died the next day. If the Participant’s spouse elects to defer the  
Annuity Starting Date for the survivorship benefits, and fails to survive the Annuity Starting Date, no  
survivorship benefits will be payable. However, in such event, benefits may be payable under Section  
6.7.  
The Trustees shall distribute the survivorship benefits to the surviving spouse at any time prior to the  
annuity starting date, in lump sum form, if the present value of the benefit does not exceed $3,500.  
For purposes of determining the present value of an annuity as of the date of distribution, the Plan is  
required to use an interest rate no greater than the rate used by the Pension Benefit Guaranty  
Corporation in valuing a lump sum distribution upon Plan termination.  
6.7 Beneficiary Annuity.  
A. A Beneficiary Annuity, as defined in Section 6.7B shall be paid to the beneficiary determined under  
Section 6.7C of any Participant who meets either of the following eligibility requirements:  
1.  
Ds  
A vested Participant who dies before his Annuity Starting Date but has not met the requirements for  
a Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity; or  
A vested Participant who dies before his Annuity Starting Date while eligible for a Qualified  
Preretirement Survivor Annuity, but whose surviving spouse dies prior to the surviving spouse’s  
Annuity Starting Date under the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity.  
—14—  
B. The Beneficiary Annuity is the monthly amount which would have been payable under the Normal Form |  
C.  
D.  
  
of Benefits (a life annuity with a60 month guarantee) commencing at the Participant’s Normal Retirement  
Date, provided, however, that this amount is payable to the beneficiary or beneficiaries determined under  
Section 6.7C only for 60 months. Benefit payments to the beneficiary will commence with the first day  
of the first month following the month in which the Participant would have reached age 60 or if later, the  
first day of the month following the month in which the Participant dies.  
The beneficiary or beneficiaries entitled to the Beneficiary Annuity shall be determined in the same  
manner as the beneficiary is determined under Section 5.2.  
This Section shall be effective with regard to an eligible Participant whose death occurs on or after January  
19, 1995,  
### ARTICLE VII  
### Vesting Requirement  
General Ruje. A Participant meets the requirements of Article VH, and is therefore “vested” for purposes  
of eligibility for plan benefits, if he meets one of the following requircments:  
A.  
### O  
7.2  
A Participant who has completed ten years of vesting service as defined in Section 7,2 (excluding years  
of vesting service prior to a permanent break in service) is vested;  
A Participant who has completed five years of vesting service as defined in Section 7.2 (excluding years  
of vesting service prior to a permanent break in service) and whose participation ceases within the meaning  
of Article III after the Participant has reached the age of forty-five (45) is vested.  
A Participant whose termination of participation within the meaning of Article III occurs after the  
Participant has reached the age of sixty (60) is vested.  
For any Participant who has one hour of service on or after July 1, 1989 and who is not a Participant as  
a result of being covered under a collective bargaining agreement, that Participant is vested if he has  
completed five (5) years of vesting service (excluding years of vesting service prior to a permanent break  
in service).  
ear of Vesti rvice.  
The vesting computation period is the twelve month period commencing July | of each year and ending  
June 30 of the following year.  
A Participant whose Participation ceased (within the meaning of Article ITI) on or after January J, 1976,  
earns a year of vesting service for any vesting computation period up to and including the vesting  
computation period which ended June 30, 1992, during which the Participant one hour of  
service, as defined in Section 1.19.  
For each vesting computation period commencing with the vesting computation period that begins July  
1, 1992, a Participantearms a year of vesting service foreach such vesting computation period during which  
the Participant completed 400 or more hours of service as defined in Section 1.19.  
Years of vesting service prior to a permanent break in service (as defined in Section 7.3D) are forfeited  
and do not count toward years of vesting service,  
A Participant who ceased participation prior to December 1, 1974, will be deemed to have completed 10  
years of vesting service (or 5 years of vesting service if applicable) only if the Participant completes said  
years of vesting service in accordance with the rules contained in this Section 7.2 and if the date of the  
—15—  
7.3  
8.1  
cessation of participation is after the tenth anniversary (or if applicable, the fifth anniversary)  
of the date that the Participant first participated.  
For purposes of computing years of service for vesting only, hours of service with a Contributing Employer  
for which the Employer is not obligated to contribute to this Trust shall be counted provided that such  
noncovered service is contiguous with the Participant's service for which contributions were required.  
Noncovered service shail be considered as contiguous with covered service if there is no intervening quit,  
discharge or other termination. No benefits are accrued for contiguous noncovered service.  
A one year break in service occurs when, during any vesting computation period up to and including the  
vesting computation period that ended on June 30, 1992, a Participant has no hours of service. For vesting  
computation period beginning with the vesting computation period that begins on July 1, 1992 and  
thereafter, a one year break in service occurs when, during any such vesting computation period, a  
Participant or former Participant completes less than 400 hours of service.  
A Participant who experiences a one year break in service after he has become vested within the méaning  
of 7.1, is entitled to have his pre-break service counted for vesting and benefit accrual purposes.  
A Participant who experiences a one year break in service prior to becoming vested and who subsequently  
becomes a Participant in the Plan shall be entitled to have his years of vesting service and his years of  
accredited service for purposes of benefit computation prior to that one year break in service counted  
unless the break in service is a “permanent break in service” within the meaning of the following Section  
7.3D. Conversely, years of service prior to a permanent break in service will not be counted.  
A Permanent Break in Service occurs if a nonvested Participant experiences consecutive one year breaks  
in service which equal or exceed, the greater of:  
1. five years of service;  
2. the number of the Participant’s years of service before the break in service.  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### Forms of Benefit Payments  
Definjtions. The following definitions apply for purposes of this Article VIEL.  
The term “Annuity Starting Date” shall have the meaning set out in Section 1.24.  
A “Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity” for a Participant who has been married to his spouse for at least  
one year immediately prior to his Annuity Starting Date is a form of annuity which pays a lifetime monthly  
pension payment to the Participant and upon the Participant’s death, pays one-half of that amount in  
monthly payments to the Participant’s “surviving spouse” for the life of the surviving spouse. The  
Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity for a married Participant will be the actuarial equivalent of the  
amount which the Participant would receive under the Normal Form of Benefits under this Plan. The  
monthly amount of the Participant’s pension is reduced in accordance with the actuarial assumptions used  
by the Plan and the ages of the Participant and his spouse.  
A “Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity” for a Participant who has not been married for one year  
immediately prior to his Annuity Starting Date is a life annuity. This annuity shall be the actuarial  
equivalent of the benefit which the Participant would have received under the Normal Form of Benefits  
under this Plan.  
— 16—  
C. The “surviving spouse” for purposes of this Article is the spouse to whom the Participant was lawfully  
8.2  
married as of the Annuity Starting Date. If the “surviving spouse” predeceases the Participant, no  
survivorship annuity will be payable, even if the Participant remarries. The death of the surviving spouse  
prior to the Participant’s death will not affect the amount of the monthly payment to the Participant.  
General Rule Concerning Form of Benefits. Effective for any Participant whose Annuity Starting Date  
is July 1, 1976, or thereafter, benefits shall be paid in the form of a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity unless the  
Participant validly waives the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.3.  
A Participant who was married as of his Annuity Starting Date, but has been married less than a year, will have his  
benefits converted to the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity for a married Participant on the one year anniversary  
of his marriage, if his spouse and the Participant are still surviving, unless the Participant validly waives the Qualified  
Joint and Survivor Annuity in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.3.  
8.3  
A,  
Waiver of the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity.  
A Participant who is otherwise required to receive his benefits in the form of a Qualified Joint and Survivor  
Annuity may waive said form of benefits by filing with the Fund Office a valid waiver during the election  
period. The election period is the ninety (90) day period prior to the Annuity Starting Date. Any valid  
election made during an election period prior to an Annuity Starting Date which is on or after the  
Participant’s Normal! Retirement Age will govern all payments of benefits earned thereafter. Any election  
may be revoked at any time during the election period.  
In order to be valid, an election to waive the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity must meet the following  
requirements:  
t. It must be in writing.  
2. It must be filed no less than thirty (30) days and no more than ninety (90) days after the Participant  
receives the Notice and Explanation described in Section 8.4. The Notice and Explanation is  
presumed to be received on the third day after the date it is mailed.  
3. Inthe case of a Participant who has had one or more hours of service after August 23, 1984, the waiver  
must be consented to in writing by the Participant’s spouse (unless such consent is not required under  
subsection 8.3B4). Said consent must also acknowledge in writing the effect of the election. The  
consent and acknowledgment required by this subsection must be witnessed by a notary public or a  
plan representative.  
Effective for any election filed with regard to an Annuity Starting Date on or after July 1, 1987, the  
waiver and consent must name the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries, if any, who will receive  
survivorship benefits under the Plan and must name the form of benefits to be paid under the Plan,  
(subject to the following paragraph). If a consent names a designated beneficiary and/or a specific  
form of benefits, then any subsequent change to said designated beneficiary and/or form of benefits  
is invalid unless a new consent is obtained from the spouse, which meets the requirements of this  
Section 8.3.  
If the consent does not name a specific beneficiary or beneficiaries or a specific form of benefits, or  
if the Participant and spouse desire that future changes in the beneficiary and/or form of benefits may  
be made without spousal consent. the consent must acknowledge that the spouse has the right to limit  
consent to a Specific beneficiary and a specific form of benefits and the consent must voluntarily waive  
whichever (or both) of said rights, in accordance with the desires of the Participant and his spouse.  
4, Theconsent described in this Section 8.3 is not required if it is established to the satisfaction of a plan  
representative that the consent otherwise required cannot be obtained because:  
a. there is no spouse:  
b. the spouse cannot be located; or 7  
c. such exist as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury as sufficient  
to obviate the requirement of the spousal consent.  
   
A. Within a reasonable time prior to the Annuity Starting Date, the Plan must provide the Participant with a  
notice in writing explaining the terms of the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity and the right to waive  
that Annuity Form of Benefit. This Notice will be provided within a reasonable period of time before the  
Normal Retirement Age and a reasonable penod of time before any Early Retirement Date  
or Postponed Retirement Date. A Participant may not elect an Annuity Starting Date at any time before  
the 31st day after he has received the Notice.  
B. The Notice and Explanation must contain a written explanation of the following:  
1. The terms and conditions of the Qualifted Joint and Survivor Annuity;  
2. The Participant’s night to make an election to waive the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity and the  
procedure for making the election;  
3. The effect of an election to waive the Qualified Joint and Survivor form of benefit;  
4, The rights of the Participant’s spouse, including the right to withhold consent; and  
5. The right to revoke an election to waive Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity and the effect of such  
or revocation.  
8.5 Optional Forms of Retirement Benefits.  
A. Inthe event a Participant validly waives the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity, he may elect to receive  
his benefits in any of the following optional forms:  
1. Life Annuity with a 60 month guarantee (described in Section 5.2 of this Plan).  
2. ALife Annuity with 120 month guarantee, whichis the same form of payments as the life annuity with  
60 month guarantee as described in Section 5.2, but the number of guaranteed payments is 120. This  
option may only be selected if the 120 monthly payments will not extend payments beyond the life  
expectancy of the Participant and his designated beneficiary.  
3. ALife Only Annuity which provides monthly benefit payments to the Participant for his lifetime with  
no further payments after the monthly payment for the month in which the Participant dies.  
4. A Joint and Full Survivor Annuity which provides monthly benefit payments to the Participant  
throughout his lifetime and, upon his death, continues monthly payments in the same amount to the  
“surviving spouse”.  
5. A Joint and Two-Thirds Survivor Annuity, which provides monthly benefit payments to the  
Participant throughout his lifetime and, upon his death, continues monthly payment equal to 66-2/3%  
of the amount that the Participant was receiving, to the “surviving spouse”.  
B. All optional forms of benefits (including the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity) shall be adjusted so  
that the actuarial value of the benefit is the actuarial equivalent of the Participant’s accrued benefit stated  
in the Normal Form of Benefit (Section 5.2). Under this Plan, actuarial equivalent means that whenever  
it is necessary to convert one form of annuity to another form of annuity or to a lump sum, the result wil!  
be benefits substantially equal in value as determined by application of the 1971 Male Group Annuity  
Monthly tables and a 6-1/2% interest rate.  
—  
C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustees shall distribute the Participant’s benefits or the Beneficiary's  
benefits in the form of a lump sum payment on or prior to the annuity starting date if the present value of  
the benefits does not exceed $3,500. For purposes of determining the present value of an annuity as of the  
date of distribution, the Plan shall use the interest rate established by the Pension Benefit Guaranty  
Corporation as of the beginning of the Plan Year for valuing a lump sum distribution upon plan termination  
or individual termination. This section shall not apply after the Annuity Starting Date unless the  
Participant or Beneficiary consents in writing to the single sum distribution.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### Application for Timing of Benefit Distribution  
9.1 Applications. A Participant or Beneficiary must apply in writing for any benefit payable under this Plan  
in a timely manner, in advance of the Annuity Starting Date. To be timely for this purpose, an application must be  
sufficient to give notice to the Trustees of the applicant’s request to commence receipt of benefits under this Plan.  
Every Participant, Beneficiary or Pensioner shal] furnish, at the request of the Trustees, any information or proof  
reasonably required to determine his benefit nghts. If a person makes a willfully false statement material to an  
apphcation or furnishes fraudulent information or proof, benefits not vested under this Plan (as defined in Article VII)  
may be denied, suspended or discontinued as determined by the Trustees. The Trustees shall have the right to recover  
any benefit payments made in reliance on any false or fraudulent statement, information or proof submitted by a  
Participant, Beneficiary or Pensioner.  
9.2 Trustees. The Trustees shal}, subject to the requirements of the Jaw, be the sole judges of the standard of  
proof required in any case and the application and interpretation of the Plan including decisions concerning the  
eligibility of a Participant or Beneficiary to participate or his entitlement to benefits, and decisions of the Trustees shall  
be final and binding on all parties. In the event an application for benefits is denied in whole or in part, the Participant  
or Beneficiary must follow the Benefit Claim Procedure set forth in Article X. Wherever in the Plan the Trustees are  
given discretionary powers, the Trustees shail exercise such powers in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner.  
9.3 Hm Benefit mencement. Payment of benefits may begin sooner but shal] begin no later than  
60 days after the last of the following dates, unless the Participant elects a later date (see section 6.2).  
A. The end of the Plan Year in which the Participant attained Normal Retirement Age;  
B. The end of the Plan Year in which the Participant left covered service;  
C. The Annuity Starting Date selected by the Participant on an application for bencfits filed with the Plan;  
or  
D. The date the Trustees were first able to ascertain entitlement to, or the amount of, the Participant’s Benefits.  
9.4 Limitations on the Tjmin enefit Distribution.  
A. As set forth in Section 6.2, a Participant may elect to postpone his Annuity Starting Date to a date which  
is past his Normal Retirement Date, provided:  
1. Effective January |, 1984, no Participant may postpone his Annuity Starting Date to a date later than  
April { of the calendar year following the later of the calendar year in which the Participant attains  
age 70-1/2 or the calendar year in which he ceases working in covered employment. If a Participant  
owns 5% or more of the stock of a Contributing Employer, the benefit must begin no later than April  
] of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 70-1/2.  
2. Effective May 1, 1989, benefit commencement may not be postponed laterthan April ! of the calendar  
year following the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age 70-1/2.  
— 19 —  
The latest date on which benefit payments may commence as set out in paragraph 9.4A1 and 2 is called  
the “required beginning date.”  
Notwithstanding any provisions in the Plan to the contrary, benefit payment must meet the requirements  
of either of the following subsections:  
1. Benefits shail be distributed in ful! prior to the “required beginning date”, set out in subsection 9.4A,  
or  
2. a.  
Distribution to a Participant must begin no later than the required beginning date and must be  
made over the life of the Participant (or lives of the Participant and the Participant’s spouse), or  
over a period not exceeding the life expectancy of the Participant (or the life expectancies of the  
Participant and the Participant’s spouse). Distributions (as described in this subsection) may be  
made to a Participant and a nonspouse Beneficiary provided the period used to determine the “life  
expectancies” remains as that of the Participant and the Participant’s spouse.  
If distribution of benefits has begun in accordance with the provisions of subsection 9.4B 2a, and  
if the Participant dies before his or her entire interest is distnbuted, the remaining portion of the  
Participant’s interest must be distributed at least as rapidly as under the distribution method being  
used as of the date of his death.  
If a Participant dies before the distribution of the Participant’s interest has begun in accordance  
with subsection 9.4B 2a, then the entire interest of the Employee must be distributed by December  
31 of the fifth calendar year following the year of the Participant’ s death, subject to the following:  
(1) The five-year payout requirement shall not apply if:  
(a) any portion of the Participant’s interest is payable to (or for the benefit of) a designated  
beneficiary;  
(b} such portion will be distributed (in accordance with regulations) over the life of such  
designated beneficiary (or over a period not extending beyond the life expectancy of  
such beneficiary); and  
(c) such distributions begin not later than one year after the Participant’s death or such  
later date as may be prescribed by regulations.  
(2) If the designated beneficiary referred to in paragraph 9.4B2c(1) is the surviving spouse of  
the Participant, then:  
(a) the date on which distributions are required to begin under 9.4B2c(1)(c) shal! not be  
earlier than the date on which the Participant would have attained age 70-1/2; and ,  
(b) if the surviving spouse dies before the distribution to such spouse begins, this  
subparagraph shal! be applied as if the surviving spouse were the Participant.  
### ARTICLE X  
### Benefit Claims Procedure  
Any claim for benefits under the Plan shall be made in writing to the Plan Administrator of the Plan on forms which  
will be provided upon request to the Fund Office. The Plan Administrator shall furnish the claimant with a written  
notice of his decision within ninety (90) days after receipt of the claim, unless special circumstances require an  
extension of time for processing the claim. If such an extension of time for processing the claim is required, written  
notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the expiration of the initial 90 day period. In no event  
shall such an extension exceed a period of 90 days after the expiration of the initial 90 day period.  
—- 20 —  
In the event that the decision of the Plan Administrator is to wholly or partially deny a claim, the claimant shall  
be provided with a written decision which shall set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant the  
following:  
A. The specific reason or reasons for the denial;  
B. Specific reference to pertinent plan provisions on which the denial is based;  
C. Adescription of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and  
an explanation of why such materia] or information is necessary; and  
D. Appropriate information as (to the steps to be taken if the Participant or beneficiary wishes to submit his  
or her claim for review.  
In the event a claim is wholly or partially denied, a claimant or his duly authorized representatives may appeal the  
claim to the Board of Trustees of the Plan by written application to the Board of Trustees filed within sixty (60) days  
after receipt by the claimant of written notification of denial of claim. Said application for review shall be available  
at the office of the Plan. The claimant shall have a right to have a duly authorized representative review pertinent  
documents and submit tssues and comments tn writing.  
The decision by the Board of Trustees shall be made no later than the date of the meeting of the Board which  
immediately follows the Plan’s receipt of a request for review, unless the request for review is filed within 30 days  
preceding the date of such meeting. In such a case, a decision may be made by no Jater than the date of the second  
meeting following the Plan’s receipt of the request for review.  
If special circumstances require an extension of time for reviewing the decision of the Plan Administrator, the  
decision of the Board of Trustees shall be rendered no later than the third meeting of the Board following the Plan's  
receipt of the request for review. If such an extension of time for review is required, written notice of the extension  
shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the commencement of ihe extension. The decision of the Board shall be in  
writing and shail include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the  
claimant, as well as specific references to the pertinent plan provisions on which the decision is based.  
The benefit claims procedure provided herein is exclusive and no action shall be brought in any court or before  
any agency to recover any benefits or seek any relief under the Plan prior to the exhaustion of the remedies set forth  
herein.  
### ARTICLE XI  
ions o i  
11.1 imu imitati  
A. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Plan, the annual retirement benefit to which a Participant shal]  
be entitled hereunder when aggregated with the benefit under all other Defined Benefit Plans maintained  
by the Employer, shall not exceed the lesser of:  
1. $90,000; or  
2. 100% of the Employee’s average annual compensation for the three highest consecutive calendar  
years during which he participated in the Plan or any other Plan maintained by the Employer.  
The $90,000 limit set forth in subparagraph (1) above shall be increased automatically to account for  
increases in the cost of living. Such cost of living adjustment shall be limited to scheduled increases in  
accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary of Treasury under Internal Revenue Code § 415(d),  
and shall be effective no sooner than January | of each year.  
—_2]—  
B. For purposes of this section “compensation” shal] mean the Employee’s earned income, wages, salaries  
and fees for professional services, and other amounts received for personal services actually rendered in  
the course of employment with the Employer maintaining the plan (including, but not limited to,  
commissions paid to salesmen, percentage of profits, commissions on insurance premiums, tips and  
bonuses), and excluding the following:  
1. Employer contributions to a plan of deferred compensation which are not included in the  
gross income for the taxable year in which contributed or Employer contributions under a simplified  
Employee pension plan to the extent such contributions are deductible by the Employee, or any  
distributions from a plan of deferred compensation.  
2, Amounts realized from the exercise of a non-qualified stock option, or when restricted stock (or  
property) held by the Employer either becomes freely transferrable or is no longer subject to a  
substantial risk of forfetture.  
3. Amounts realized from the sale, exchange or other disposition of stock acquired under a qualified  
stock option plan.  
4. Other amounts which received special tax benefits, or contributions made by the Employer (whether  
or not under a salary reduction agreement) towards the purchase of an annuity described in Section  
403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (whether or not the amounts are actually excludable from the  
gross income of the Employee).  
C. Inthe case of a Participant who has less than 10 years of accredited service for purposes of benefit accrual,  
the limitations set forth in subsections B1 and 2 of this section shall be multiplied by a fraction, the  
numerator of which is the number of the Participant’s such years of service and the denominator of which  
is 10.  
D. The following additional rules apply for plan years beginning July I, 1983 to July 1, 1986, inclusive: in  
the case of a Participant whose benefits hereunder commence prior to his attainment of age 62, the  
limitation set forth in subsection A] of this section shall, in accordance with the regulations issued by the  
Secretary of Treasury, be adjusted so that it is the equivalent to such a benefit beginning at age 62, provided  
that such an adjustment shall not reduce such limitation below:  
1. If the benefit commences after the Employee attains age 55, $75,000, or  
2. If the benefit commences before the Employee attains age 55, the amount which is the actuarial  
equivalent to the $75,000 limitation at age 55.  
In the case of an Employee whose benefits hereunder commence after he has attained the age of 65, the  
limitation set forth in subsection Al of this section shall, in accordance with regulations issued by the  
Secretary of Treasury, be adjusted so that it is the actuaria] equivalent to the dollar limitation for a benefit  
commencing at age 65. For purposes of adjusting any benefit under this subsection, the interest rate  
assumption shal) be 5%.  
E. Notwithstanding the limitations of subsection A of this section, if a Participant was covered by the Plan  
before the first day of the Limitation Year beginning in 1983, he may receive an annual retirement benefit  
which is not less than the amount of his current accrued benefit as of the close of the last Limitation Year  
beginning before 1983, as determined under the terms of the Plan as then in effect disregarding any  
amendments or cost of living adjustments after July 1, 1982. For purposes of this Section, the term  
“Limitation Year” shall mean the Plan Credit Year.  
F. The following rules apply for Plan Years beginning July 1, 1987 and thereafter. In the case of a participant  
whose Annuity Starting Date is prior to Social Security Retirement Age, the $90,000 limitation contained  
in Section 11.1A1 shall be actuarially reduced so that it is the actuarial equivalent of an annual benefit of  
—22—  
12.1  
$90,000 commencing at the Social Security Retirement Age. In the case of a Participant whose Annuity  
Starting Date ts after Social Security Retirement Age, the $90,000 limitation contained in Section 11.1A1  
shall be actuarially increased so that it is the actuarial equivalent of an annual benefit of $90,000  
commencing at the Social Security Retirement Age.  
If a Participant covered by this Plan participates in both Defined Benefit and Defined Contributions Plans  
maintained by the Employer, the sum of 1 and 2 below may. not exceed 1.0:  
I,  
The sum of the projected annual benefit of the Employee under all Defined Benefit pension plans of  
the Employer determined as of the close of the Limitation Year, divided by the lesser of:  
a. The product of 1.25 multiplied by the dollar limitation in effect under Section 415(b)(1)(A) of  
the Internal Revenue Code for such year, or  
b. The product of 1.4 multiplied by the amount which may be taken into account under Section  
415(b)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to such Employee for such year.  
The sum of the annual additions to the Employee’s account under all defined contributions plans of  
the Employer as of the close of the Limitation Year and for all prior Calendar Years divided by the  
sum of the lesser of a or b for such year and foreach prior year of service with the Employer (regardless  
of whether any such defined contribution plan was in existence during those years), where;  
a. Is the product of !.25 multiplied by the dollar limitation in effect under Section 415(c)(1)(A) of  
the Internal Revenue Code for such year (without regard to Section 415 (c)(6) of such Code); and  
b. Is the product of 1.4 multiplied by the same amount which may be taken into account under  
Section 415(c)(1)(B) of the Interna] Revenue Code (or Section 415(c)(7) of such Code, if  
applicable) with respect to such individual under such plan for such year; provided however, that  
the Board of Trustees may elect that the amount taken into account for each Employee for all  
years ending before January I, 1983, under a and b above shall be determined pursuant to the  
special transition rule in such Section 415(e)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code.  
If this Plan is aggregated with another Plan that was in existence on July 1, 1982, and the above  
limitations are not met, each Participant for whom the limits are violated will not receive any annual  
additions or accruals in this Plan. In the event that at the earlier to occur of each December 31 or the  
date of an Employee retirement or termination, the sum of 1 and 2 above exceeds 1.0 and the benefit  
of such Employee under such other Plan or Plans 1s not reduced to bring such sum to 1.0, then such  
Employee’s benefits under this Plan shall be reduced by an amount sufficient to cause the sum of 1  
and 2 above for each Employee to equal 1.0.  
### ARTICLE Xi  
### Miscellaneous Provisions  
Military Service. Service in the armed forces of the United States shall, upon retum to employment  
covered by this Plan, be credited for purposes of participation, benefit accrual and vesting to the extent required by  
law.  
12.2  
dha fa ‘ ‘lit ge  
A. NoParticipant shall, under this Trust, have any legal right, title or interest in the Trust or any contract issued  
concerning his participation, and any such Participant’s interest, beneficial or otherwise, sha!] be limited  
to that provided in this Trust and under any contract on such Participant.  
To the extent permitted by law, and except as provided in paragraph (b), the Participant shal! not be  
permitted to anticipate, encumber, alienate or assign any of his rights, claims or interest in this Trust or  
—= 99  
contract, or any part thereof, except upon the written authority of the Trustees, and such authority, if  
granted and it relates to a contract, shall have been filed with the issuing insurance company during the  
lifetime of the Participant and neither the contract nor any part thereof, nor any payments, benefits, or rights  
anising by reason of this Trust, shall be in any way subject to the Participant’s debts, contracts or  
engagements, nor to any judicial processes to levy upon or attach the same for payment thereof.  
B. Allother provisions of this Section and this Plan notwithstanding, the Plan shall pay benefits in accordance  
with any domestic relations order which is determined to be a Qualified Domestic Relations Order within  
the meaning of Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Trustees shal! adopt a written procedure  
for determining the qualified status of domestic relations orders and for administering distributions under  
such qualified orders.  
12.3 n Reversion to Employer. It 1s expressly understood that in no event shall any of the corpus or assets  
of the Pension Fund revert to the Employers or be subject to any claims of any kind or nature by the Employers.  
12.4 FE es’ ion enefit of Participant and Beneficiaries. Any funds coming into the  
hands of the Trustees from any source whatsoever, less reasonable expenses of administering this Trust as may be  
determined from time to time by the Trustees, shal] be used solely to provide the benefits enumerated herein for eligible  
Participants and Beneficiaries. The sources of these funds shal! include contributions from Employers, interest and  
other earnings on investments, dividends from an insurance company, other credits that may be granted by the  
insurance company and other income from any source whatsoever.  
12.5 Limitation of Liability. The Pension Plan has been established on the basis of an actuarial calculation  
which has established, to the extent possible, that contributions will, if continued, be sufficient to maintain the Plan  
on a permanent basis, fulfilling the funding requirements of ERISA. Except for liabilittes which may result from  
provisions of ERISA, or other applicable law, nothing in this Plan shall be construed to impose any obligation to  
contribute beyond the obligation of the Employer to make contributions as stipulated in its collective bargaining with  
the Union, and there shall be no liability upon the Trustees individually, or collectively, or upon the Union to provide  
benefits established by this Pension Plan, if the Pension Fund does not have assets to make such payments.  
12.6 lability of Employer/Liabili icipants. The liability of any individual employer to the Fund shall  
in no event extend to the obligations of another participating employer or other participating employers.  
The individual Participants shall not be required to make any payments or contributions to the cost of the  
operation of the Fund or in connection with the administration of the Trust hereby established or otherwise. No  
individual Participant shall be liable or responsible for any debts, liabilities or obligations of the Trust or Trustees.  
12.7 Rollover Distri  
A. This section applies to distributions made on or after January 1, 1993. Notwithstanding any provision of  
the Plan to the contrary that would otherwise limit a distributee’s election under this section, a distributee  
may elect, at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator, to have any portion of an  
eligible rollover distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee in a  
direct rollover.  
B. Definitions.  
|. Eligible rollover distribution: An eligible rollover distribution is any distribution of all or any portion  
of the balance to the credit of the distributee, except that an eligible rollover distribution does not  
include: any distribution that ts one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not less  
frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the distributee or the joint lives (or  
joint tife expectancies) of the distributee and the distributee’s designated beneficiary, or for a specified  
period of ten years or more; any distribution to the extent such distribution is required under section  
401(a)(9) of the Code; and the portion of any distribution that is not includable in gross income  
(determined without regard to the exclusion for net unrealized appreciation with respect to employer  
securities).  
  
2,  
Eligible retirement plan: An eligtble retirement plan is an individual retirement account described in  
section 408(a) of the Code, an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b) of the Code,  
an annuity plan described in section 403(a) of the Code, or a qualified trust described in section 401 (a)  
of the Code, that accepts the distributee’s eligible rollover distribution. However, in the case of an  
eligible rollover distribution to the surviving spouse, an eligible retirement plan is an individual  
retirement account or individual retirement annuity.  
Distributee: A distributee includes an employee or former employee. In addition, the employee’s or  
former employee’s surviving spouse and the employee’s or former employee’s spouse or former  
spouse who is the alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order, as defined in section  
414(p) of the Code, are distributees with regard to the interest of the spouse or former spouse.  
Direct rollover: A direct rollover is a payment by the Plan to the eligible retirement plan specified by  
the distributee.  
12.8 Top-Heav vision  
A. Definitions. For purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning stated  
below unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:  
l.  
as  
3.  
Key Employee.  
“Key Employee” means an employee or former employee (and the beneficiary of such employee)  
meeting the definition of “Key Employee” contained in Section 416(i)(1) of the Internal Revenue  
Code and Section 1.4}6-1 of the Treasury Regulations.  
Non-Key Employee.  
“Non-Key Employee” means any Employee who Is not a Key Employee.  
Annual Compensation Limitation.  
a. For Plan Credit Years beginning on or after July 1, 1994, the amount of a Participant’s  
Compensation (as defined in subsection 11.1 B above) from any single employer that may be  
taken into account for any Plan purpose in any Plan Credit Year is $150,000, as that amount may  
be adjusted from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury under Section 401{a)(17) of the  
Internal Revenue Code.  
b. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, effective July 1, 1994, the accrued benefit of  
any Participant whose Compensation exceeded $150,000 in any Plan Credit Year beginning  
before August 1, 1994, shall be the greater of:  
the sum of  
(1) The Participant’s accrued benefit as of June 30, 1994, determined under Article V as though  
the Participant had terminated employment on that date and without regard to any Plan  
amendments adopted after that date (but taking into account remedial amendments that  
apply retroactively before that date under Section 401(b) of the Internal Revenue Code),  
plus  
(2) the amount of the Participant’s benefit accrued on or after July 1, 1994, under Article V,  
taking into account only years of service after June 30, 1994, and  
the Participant’s accrued benefit, determined under Article V, taking into account all Years of Service  
before and after July 1, 1994.  
“Determination Date” means, with respect to any Plan Credit Year, the last day of the preceding Plan  
— 25 —  
Credit Year, or in the case of the first Plan Credit Years of any Plan, the last day of such Plan Credit  
Year.  
B. Top-Heavy Plan Requirements.  
Effective January 1, 1984, for any Top-Heavy Plan Credit Year, the Plan shall provide the following:  
l.  
This Plan shall be a Top-Heavy Plan for any Plan Credit Year commencing after December 31, 1983,  
in which, as of the Determination Date,  
a. the present value of accrued benefits of Key Employees and  
b. the sum of the aggregate accounts of Key Employees under this Plan and all plans of an  
Aggregation Group exceeds sixty percent (60%) of the present value of accrued benefits and the  
aggregate accounts of all Key Employees and non-Key Employees under this Plan and all plans  
of an Aggregation Group.  
If any participant is a Non-Key Employee for a Plan Credit Year, but such Participant was a Key  
Employee for any prior Plan Credit Year, such Participant’s present value of accrued benefits  
and/or aggregate account balance shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining  
whether this Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan (or whether any Aggregation Group which includes this  
Plan is a Top-Heavy Group). In addition, for Plan Credit Years beginning after December 31,  
1984, if a Participant or former Participant has not performed services for any Employer  
maintaining the Plan at any time during the five-year period ending on the Determination Date,  
the aggregate account and/or present value of accrued benefit for such Participant or former  
Participant shall not be taken into account for the purposes of determining whether this Plan is  
a Top-Heavy Plan.  
A Participant’s aggregate account as of the Determination Date shall be determined under applicable  
provisions of the defined contribution plan used in determining Top-Heavy Plan status.  
“Ageregation Group” means either a Required Aggregation Group or a Permissive Aggregation  
Group as hereinafter determined.  
a. Indetermining a Required Aggregation Group hereunder, each plan of an Employer in which a  
Key Employee is a Participant, and each other plan of an Employer which enables any plan in  
which a Key Employee participates to meet the requirements of Sections 401(a)(4) and 410 of  
the Internal Revenue Code, will be required to be aggregated. Such group shall be known as a  
“Required Aggregation Group.”  
In the case of a Required Aggregation Group, each plan in the group will be considered a Top-  
Heavy Plan if the Required Aggregation Group is a Top-Heavy Plan. No plan in the Required  
Aggregation Group is a Top-Heavy Plan if the Required Aggregation Group Is not a Top-Heavy  
Plan.  
b. An Employer may also include any other plan not required to be included in the Required  
Aggregation Group, provided the resulting group, taken as a whole, would continue to satisfy the  
provisions of Section 401(a)(4) and 410 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such group shall be  
known as a “Permissive Aggregation Group.”  
In the case of a Permissive Aggregation Group, only a plan that is part of the Required  
Aggregation Group will be considered a Top-Heavy Plan if the Permissive Aggregation Group  
is a Top-Heavy Plan. No plan in the Permissive Aggregation Group wil! be considered a Top-  
Heavy Pian if the Permissive Aggregation Group is not a Top-Heavy Plan.  
— 26 —  
¢. Only those plans of an Employer in which the Determination Dates fall within the same Plan  
Credit Year shall be aggregated in order to determine whether such plans are Top-Heavy Plans.  
4. In the case of a defined benefit plan, a Participant’s present value of accrued benefits shall be  
determined:  
a. as of the most recent actuarial valuation date which is the most recent valuation date within a  
twelve-month period ending on the Determination Date;  
b. for the first Plan Credit Year, as if:  
the Participant terminated service as of the Determination Date; or  
the Participant terminated service as of the actuarial valuation date, but taking into account the  
estimated present value of accrued benefits as of the Determination Date.  
c. forany other Plan Credit Year, as if the Participant terminated service as of the actuarial valuation  
date,  
d. the actuarial valuation date must be the same date used for computing the defined benefit plan  
minimum funding costs, regardless of whether a valuation is performed in the Plan Credit Year.  
5. The calculation of a Participant’s present value of accrued benefit as of a Determination Date shall  
be the sum of the following:  
a. the present value of accrued benefit using actuarial assumptions stated in the most recent  
valuation;  
b. any Plan distributions made within the Plan Credit Year that includes the Determination Date or  
within four preceding Plan Credit Years. However, in the case of distributions made after the  
valuation date and prior to the Determination Date, such distributions are not included as  
distributions for Top-Heavy purposes to the extent that such distributions are already included  
in the Participant’s present value of accrued benefit as of the valuation date.  
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all distributions, including distributions made  
pnorto July J, 1984, and distributions under a terminated plan which if it had not been terminated  
would have been required to be included in an Aggregation Group, will be counted;  
c. any Employce contributions, whether voluntary or mandatory. However, amounts attributable  
to tax deductible Qualified Voluntary Employee Contributions shall not be considered to be a  
part of the Participant’s present value of accrued benefits;  
d. with respect to unrelated rollovers and plan-to-plan transfer (ones which are both initiated by the  
Employee and made from a plan maintained by one Employer to a plan maintained by another  
Employer), if this Plan provides for ro!lovers or plan-to-pian transfers, it shall always consider  
such rollover or plan-to-pian transfers as a distribution for purposes of this section. If this Plan  
is the pan accepting such rollovers or plan-to-pian transfers, it shall not consider such rollovers  
or plan-to-plan transfers accepted after June 30, 1984, as part of the Participant’s present value  
of accrued benefits. However, rollovers or plan-to-plan transfers accepted prior to July 1, 1984,  
shall be considered as part of the Participant’s present value of accrued benefits; and  
e. with respect to related rollovers and plan-to-plan transfers (ones either not initiated by the  
Employee or made to a pian maintained by the same Employer), if this Plan provides the rollover  
or plan-to-plan transfer, it shall not be counted as a distribution for purposes of this section. If  
this the plan accepting such rollover or plan-to-plan transfer, it shall consider such rollover  
or plan-to-plan transfer as part of the Participant’s present value of accrued benefits, irrespective  
of the date on which such rollover Of transfer is accepted.  
f. “Top-Heavy Group” means an Aggregation Group in which, as of the Determination Date, the  
sum of:  
(1) the present value of accrued benefits of Key Employees under all defined benefit plans  
included in the group; and  
(2) the aggregate accounts of Key Employees under all defined contribution plans included in  
the group exceeds sixty percent (60%) of a similar sum determined for all Participants.  
g. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the effective date otherwise provided for herein  
for the application of Section 416 of the Internal Revenue Code to this Plan (Plan Credit Years  
beginning after December 31, 1983) shail be extended in accordance with any federal law or  
regulatory authority.  
C. Top-Heavy Vesting.  
1. Notwithstanding the determination of Vested Status in accordance with Article VII of the Plan for any  
Top-Heavy Plan Credit Year, the vested portion of any Participant’s accrued benefit shall be  
determined on the basis of the Participant’s number of Years of Vesting Service according to the  
following schedule:  
Service for Vesting  
(excluding Years of Service for Vesting  
prior to effective date of this Plan) Vested percentage  
I year 0%  
2 years 0%  
3 years 100%  
2. If, in any subsequent Plan Credit Year, the Plan ceases to be a Top-Heavy Plan, the Trustees may elect  
to:  
a. continue to apply this vesting schedule in determining the vested portion of any Participant’s  
accrued benefit; or  
b. revert to the vesting schedule in effect before this Plan became a Top-Heavy Plan pursuant to  
Section 411(a)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code. The nonforfeitable percentage of the accrued  
benefit before the Plan ceased being Top-Heavy, therefore must not be reduced and any  
Participant with three or more Years of Vesting Service must be given the option of remaining  
under the Top-Heavy vesting schedule. Any such reversion shall be treated as a Plan amendment.  
3. The Top-Heavy vesting schedule does not apply to the accrued benefit of any Employee who does not  
have one hour of work after the Plan has initially become a Top-Heavy Plan and such Employee’s  
accrued benefit attributable to Emptoyer contributions will be determined without regard to this  
Article.  
D. Top-Heavy Benefit Requirement.  
1, The minimum accrued benefit derived from Employer contributions to be provided under this section  
for each Non-Key Employee who is a Participant shall equal the product of:  
a. one-twelfth (1/12th) of Annual Compensation averaged over the five consecutive “limitation  
years” (or actual number of “limitation years” if less) which produces the highest average, and  
b. the lesser of  
— 28 —  
(1) two percent (2%) multiplied by Years of Vesting Service; or  
(2) twenty percent (20%).  
For purposes of providing the minimum benefit under Section 416 of the Internal Revenue Code, a  
Non-Key Employee who is not a Participant solely because:  
a. his Annual Compensation is below a stated amount, or  
b. he declined to make mandatory contributions to the Plan will be considered to be a Participant.  
For purposes of this section, Years of Vesting Service for any Plan Credit Year ending prior to July  
1, 1984, or for any Plan Credit Year during which the Plan was not a Top-Heavy Plan shall be  
disregarded.  
For purposes of this section, Annual Compensation for any “limitation year” ending prior to July 1,  
1984, or subsequent to the last “limitation year” during which the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan shall be  
disregarded. The term “limitation year” means the Plan Credit Year.  
If the Plan provides for the normal retirement benefit to be paid in a form other than a single life  
annuity, the accrued benefit under this section shali be the Actuarial Equivalence of the minimum  
accrued benefit under Article V.  
If payment of the minimum accrued benefit commences at a date other than Normal Retirement Age,  
the minimum accrued benefit shall be adjusted in accordance with Article VI of the Plan.  
if aNon-Key Employee participates in this Plan and a defined contribution plan included ina Required  
Aggregation Group which is Top-Heavy, the minimum benefits shall be provided under this Plan.  
To the extent required to be nonforfeitable under Article VU of the Plan the minimum accrued benefit  
under this section may not be forfeited under Sections 411(a)(3)(B) or 41 1(a)(3)(D) of the Internal  
Revenue Code.  
### ARTICLE XIII  
### Right to Amend  
The Trustees shall have the sole right to amend this Plan and Trust without the consent of any Participant, at any  
time from time to time as may be deemed advisable; provided, however, that no amendment to this Trust shall deprive  
any Participant of any accrued benefit or vested equitable interest herein, if any, nor shall such amendment be contrary  
to any laws in existence or enacted by the Federal or State Government directly concerning this Trust, provided that  
the Trustees may adopt an amendment  
A. necessary to establish or maintain the qualification of the Plan or the Trust Fund under the Internal  
Revenue Code and to maintain compliance of the Plan with the requirements of ERISA; or  
If the amendment meets the requirements of Section 302(c)(8) of ERISA and Section 412(c)(8) of the  
Internal Revenue Code, and the Secretary of Labor has been notified of such amendment and has either  
approved of it or, within 90 days after the date on which such notice was filed, has failed to disapprove.  
Either the Trustees representing the Union or the Trustees representing the Employers may propose amendments  
to this Trust. Such amendment will become effective when it has been approved and executed by a majority of the  
Trustees. All amendments adopted relevant to the continuing qualification of this Plan and Trust under the Internat  
Revenue Code shall be submitted to the United States Internal Revenue Service for its determination of the  
qualification of such amendment.  
— 29 —  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### Termination  
A. Rightto Terminate. The Trustees shall have the right to discontinue or terminate this Plan in whole or in  
part. The rights of all affected Participants to benefits accrued to the date of the termination, partial  
termination, or discontinuance to the extent funded as of such date shall be nonforfeitable.  
B. Priorities of Allocation. In the event of termination, the assets then remaining in the Plan, after providing  
for any administrative expenses, shali be allocated among the Pensioners, Beneficiaries, and Participants  
in the following order:  
l.  
3.  
4.  
First in the case of benefits payable as a pension:  
a. In the case of the pension of a Participant or Beneficiary which was in pay status as of the  
beginning of the three year period ending on the termination date of the Plan, to each pension,  
based on the provisions of the Plan (as in effect during the five year period ending on such date)  
under which such pension would be the least. The lowest pension in pay status during the three  
year period shall be considered the pension in pay status for such period.  
b. In the case of a pension of a Participant or Beneficiary which would have been in pay status as  
of the beginning of such three year period if the Participant had retired prior to the beginning of  
the three year period if his pension had commenced (in the standard form) as of the beginning  
of such period, to each such pension based on the provisions of the Plan (as in effect during the  
five year period eriding on such date) under which the pension would be the least.  
Second, to all other benefits (if any) of the individuals under the Plan guaranteed under Title IV of  
### ERISA.  
Third, to all other vested benefits under the Plan.  
Fourth, to all other benefits under the Plan.  
C. Allocation Procedure. For purposes of subsection B hereof:  
l.  
The amount allocated under any paragraph of subsection B with respect to any benefit shall be properly  
adjusted for any allocation of assets with respect to that benefit under a prior paragraph of that  
subsection.  
If the assets available for allocation under any paragraph of subsection B (other than Paragraphs 3 and  
4) are insufficient to satisfy in full the benefits of all individuals which are described in that paragraph,  
the assets shall be allocated pro-rata among such individuals on the basis of the present value (as of  
the termination date) of their respective benefits described in that paragraph.  
This paragraph applies if the assets available for allocation under paragraph B3 are not sufficient to  
satisfy in full the benefits of individuals described in that paragraph.  
a. Ifthis paragraph applies, except as provided in subparagraph b below, the assets shall be allocated  
to the benefits of individuals described in paragraph B3 on the basis of the benefits of individuals  
which would have been described in such paragraph B3 under the Plan as in effect at the  
beginning of the five year period ending on the date of the Plan termination.  
b. If the assets available for allocation under subparagraph a above, are sufficient to satisfy in full  
the benefits described in such subparagraph (without regard to this subparagraph), then for  
purposes of subparagraph a, benefits of individuals described in such subparagraph shall be  
determined on the basis of the Plan as amended by the most recent amendment effective during  
— 30—  
such five year period under which the assets available for allocation are sufficient to satisfy in  
full the benefits of individuals described in subparagraph a and any assets remaining to be  
allocated under subparagraph a on the basis of the Plan as amended by the next succeeding Plan  
Amendment effective during such period.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### Merger or Consolidation  
The Trustees shall not merge or consolidate this Plan with any other Plan or transfer the assets or liabilities of this  
Pian to any other Plan, unless each Participant in the Plan would (if the Plan then terminated) receive a benefit  
immediately after the merger, consolidation, or transfer which is equal to or greater than the benefit said Participant  
would have been entitled to receive immediately before the merger, consolidation or transfer (if the Plan had then  
terminated).  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### Trustees  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES E. ENGEL AND RICHARD J.  
BRYAN have been selected by the Union and H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., RICHARD SUNDERMEYER, SR., and DAN  
WIENSTROER have been selected by the Employers. The total number of Trustees designated by the Union and the  
total number of Trustees designated by the Employers shall at all times be equal, regardless of the number of  
Employers who may be contributing to the Fund. The term “Trustee” as used herein shall mean any natura) person  
designated as a Trustee and selected by the Union orthe Employer. The Board of Trustees shall be the plan sponsor,  
administrator and named fiduciaries of the Plan.  
Any Trustee may resign by giving thirty (30) days’ notice in the United States mail to the other Trustees and to  
the Board of his intent to so resign. The Union may discharge any of the Trustees appointed by it, by giving thirty  
(30) days’ notice in the United States Mail of such intent to discharge. The Employers may discharge any of the  
Trustees appointed by them, by giving thirty (30) days notice in the United States Mail of such intent to discharge.  
The removal of a Trustee shall be automatic at the end of a 30-day period of notification by either the Trustee or the  
Union or the Employers, as described above, of resignation or removal.  
In the event any of the Trustees selected by the Union shall die, be incapable of acting hereunder, resign or be  
removed, a successor Trustee shall immediately be appointed by the Union duly certified by the Board. In the event  
any of the Trustees selected by the Employers shail die, become incapable of acting hereunder, resign or be removed,  
a successor Trustee shall immediately be appointed by the Employers duly certified by the Board. Failure of the Union  
or the Employers to select a successor Trustee promptly shal! not prevent the remaining Trustees from carrying on  
the affairs of this Trust.  
For purposes of this Plan, the Trustees are authorized to perform any of the above functions and shall be the Plan  
Fiduciaries. The Fiduciaries may act in one or more fiduciary capacities with respect to the Plan and may allocate to  
others certain aspects of the management and operation responsibilities of the Plan including the employment of  
investment (and other) advisors and investment managers for all or part of the Plan assets and the delegation of any  
ministerial duties or functions to qualified individuals. The Fiduciaries shall be responsible for determining the Plan’s  
short and long-run financial needs from time to time and on the basis thereof shall establish a funding policy and  
method which will carry out the Plan’s objectives and needs. The Trustees shall from time to time adopt appropriate  
resolutions defining such investment objectives.  
The Trustees shall designate one Trustee as Managing Trustee, and may, from time to time thereafter, change such  
designation. Such Managing Trustee shall have the following rights and powers, in the name of and in behalf of, all  
of the Trustees with full and binding obligation and effect upon ail the Trustees, to-wit: to receive contributions, to  
ce  
open bank accounts, to sign checks, to pay insurance premiums, to keep records of receipts, disbursements and monies  
on hand and held in the Trust Fund, to keep records of all benefits provided Participants in the Pension Fund, to hire  
such corporation or person as may be required for the efficient administration of the Trust Fund (including a Plan  
Administrator), to purchase all supplies needed for the proper bookkeeping and proper administration of the Trust  
Fund and to expend from the Funds available, any money necessary for these purposes, to have the books of the Trust  
Fund audited annually, to have the books and auditor’s report available for inspection at al} times by the other Trustees,  
Participants, Officers of the Union and Employers, and to perform such other functions and duties of a purely  
ministerial nature as may be determined from time to time by the Trustees in the interest of the proper and efficient  
administration of the Trust. The Trustees shall further have the right to audit the books of a participating employer  
when such is deemed necessary or desirable for the effective administration of the Trust. The Trustees shall designate  
One Trustee as Chairman to serve for a term of one year commencing with the date of election and until a successor  
chairman is thereafter selected for the purpose of presiding at the meetings of the Trustees. The Chairman shall be  
alternately selected from the Trustees representing the Employers and the Trustees representing the Union. |  
A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of the presence at the meeting of at least four (4) Trustees,  
two (2) of whom represent Employers and two (2) of whom represent the Union. Decisions of the Trustees shall be  
made by majority vote. [f an unequal number of Employer and Union Trustees attend a meeting, the voting power  
of the group with less Trustees present shall be and stand increased to that of the group with more Trustees present  
so that there shall be equal voting strength between Employer and Union Trustees at all times at such meeting. A  
deadlock shall be deemed to exist whenever either of following situations arise: (1) whenever a proposal, nomination,  
motion or resolution or other matter is voted upon and the votes cast are evenly divided and remain evenly divided;  
and (2) whenever a quorum is lacking at a meeting duly called and there shall be absent from said meeting two (2)  
or more Trustees of one group, and a majority of the Trustees present declare a deadlock duc to the inability tc obtain  
a quorum. In the event of such deadlock in either case arising, the Employer Trustees and the Union Trustees shall  
meet promptly for the purpose of agreeing upon an impartial umpire to break such deadlock by casting the deciding  
vote or deciding any dispute in question or matter under consideration. In the event of the inability of the Employer  
Trustees and Union Trustees to agree upon the selection of such impartial umpire, then such impartial umpire shall,  
On the petition of either the Employer Trustees or Union Trustees, be appointed by the Chief Judge of the United States  
District Court for the district wherein the principal office of the Trust is located. The decision of any such impartial  
umpire shall be final and binding on the Trustees and all concerned.  
Either the Chairman or the Managing Trustee or any two (2) Trustees may call a meeting of the Trustees at any  
time by giving atleast five (5) days’ written notice of the time and place thereof to each Trustee. Any meeting so called  
may be postponed once for a reasonable period upon the request of any Trustee upon showing of justifiable cause  
therefor. Any meeting of the Trustees may also be held at any time without notice if all of the Trustees consent thereto  
in writing or if all attend and act. If all of the Trustees shall concur in writing upon any proposition, no formal meeting  
thereon need be held by Trustees. The Managing Trustee, in the written notice, shall notify the Trustees of the subjects  
to be discussed but this shall not be construed to limit any other subjects of discussion properly placed before the  
meeting.  
The Trustees and Fund Office may receive reimbursement for expenses properly and actually  
incurred in the performance of their duties, including but not limited to expenses incurred in attending educational  
conferences, seminars and meetings, provided that the trustees determine in each case the subject matter of the  
conference, seminar or meeting is relevant to the administration of this Trust and that the expenses incurred are  
reasonable. The Trustees may adopt travel expenditure guidelines for such expenses. Reasonable compensation may  
be paid to the Trustees for services rendered in the performance of their duties as Trustees provided such payments  
are made in accordance with the Federal and State laws and regulations then in effect governing Trusts.  
### ARTICLE XVilI  
Trustees’ Powers and i  
The Trustees shall have general supervision of the operation ot the Trust Fund and shall conduct the business and  
activities of the same according to law and this Trust Agreement. The Trustees shall have the obligation to receive,  
hold and administer monies or other funds received by them from Employers {and from any Employer who may  
hereafter agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of this instrument), or otherwise, in Trust under the terms  
— 32 —  
hereof. In order to carry out and effectuate the purposes hereof, the Trustees shall have the power and authority to  
adopt uniform rules and regulations as are consistent with and necessary for effectuating the provisions of this  
Agreement.  
The Trustees shall deposit all monies received by them in such bank or banks as they may designate for the purpose  
and may, in their sole and absolute discretion if they deem it advisable, invest and reinvest such funds as they do not  
require for current expenditure in such securities as are legal for the investment of pension trust funds under the laws  
of the United States and the State of Missouri.  
No party dealing with the Trustees in relation to this Trust shall be obligated to see to the application of any money  
or property of the Trust Fund, or to see that the terms of this Trust have been complied with or be obliged to inquire  
into the necessity or expedience of any act of the Trustees and every instrument executed by the Trustees shall be  
conclusive in favor of every person relying thereon, provided: (1) that at the time of the delivery of said instrument  
the Trust hereby created was in full force and effect; and (2) that said instrument was executed in accordance with the  
terms and conditions contained in this Trust Agreement.  
The payment of money to the Trustees shall effectually discharge the person or persons paying or transferring the  
same, and such person or persons shall not be bound to see to the application or be answerable for the loss or  
misapplication thereof.  
The Trustees shall have the authority to delegate duties amongst themselves and to others to the full extent  
permitted by faw.  
The Trustees shall have the authority to reasonably request of any Employer, and an Employer when so reasonably  
requested, shall furnish to the Trustees such information and reports as may be necessary in the performance of their  
duties under this Agreement and Declaration of Trust.  
The Trustees and al! their agents who handle funds of this Trust shall furnish such bond as may be required by law,  
and shall be responsible, further, for the proper execution and administration of the terms of the Trust.  
The Trustces shall: (a) prescribe procedures for appeals from the denial of any trust benefits, and serve as an  
appeals board for a full, fair and final review of any such denial; (b) retain a qualified public accountant and an enrolled  
actuary; (c) prepare annual registrations required with respect to rights of terminated employees with vested interests  
and with respect to trust mergers and terminations; (d) comply with requirements with respect to Plan descriptions and  
other reports to be provided to the Secretary of Labor and Participants; (¢) submit annual reports and make proper  
notification of reportable events; (f) provide statements of accrued benefits at the request of the Participant; (g) pay  
Plan Termination Insurance premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, and, when required, file Notice  
of Termination with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; (h) maintain the funding standard account for the  
purposes of the Plan required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or as thereafter amended;  
(i) designate the Managing Trustee as the agent for service of process in any legal action initiated under the Employee  
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or as thereafter amended; (j) adopt a cost method, actuarial assumptions,  
basis for evaluation of assets, and a funding method and policy for purposes of actuarial cost calculations under the  
Plan, in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or as thereafter amended; (k)  
authorize the enrolled actuary to study the actual experience under the Plan in comparison to actuarial assumptions  
and to make actuarial calculations to determine whether anticipated benefits may reasonably be provided by  
anticipated contributions and existing assets of the Plan at least once every three years; (1) have the authority to such  
further actions, retain or employ such additional personnel (including but not limited to an Investment Manager within  
the meaning of ERISA) and expend Trust assets as they deem necessary in the administration and operation of the Trust  
and in the vested interests of the Participants.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### Governmental Approval  
It is the intent that the provisions of this Trust and Agreement conform with all Federal and State laws, including  
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and all applicable regulations thereunder. It is specifically  
— 33—  
intended that this Agreement be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service for its approval as conforming with all  
Internal Revenue Service regulations regarding qualified pension plans, and if any of the provisions are in conflict with  
any laws or regulations referred to herein, said provisions will be amended to conform with any laws or rulings.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### Effective Date  
This Restated Plan shall be effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise specifically provided.  
### UNION TRUSTEES EMPLOYER TRUSTEES  
### JOSEPH SHATRO H. FRED PHILIPP, JR.  
### RICHARD J. BRYAN RICHARD SUNDERMEYER, SR.  
### JAMES E. ENGEL DAN WIENSTROER  
—34—  
### AMENDMENTS TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement hereby adopt the following  
amendments to the Trust and Plan Agreement.  
1.  
The first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
THIS AGREEMENT, first made and entered into as of the first day of July, 1964, by and between  
### ST. LOUIS PAINTERS AND DECORATORS JOINT TRADE BOARD, INC., a Missouri pro  
forma decree corporation, hereinafter referred to as the BOARD, and any other employers,  
hereinafter referred to as EMPLOYERS, who adhere to the area practice and who have a contract  
with Painters District Council No. 2, hereinafter referred to as the UNION, and certain named  
individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are JOSEPH SHATRO, RICHARD J.  
### BRYAN, JAMES E. ENGEL, H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., PAUL MEYER, and DAN WIENSTROER.  
The first sentence of Article XVI is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: JOSEPH SHATRO, RICHARD J. BRYAN and  
JAMES E. ENGEL have been selected by the Union and H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., PAUL MEYER  
and DAN WIENSTROER have been selected by the Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
JOSEPH SHATRO 11-22-95 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. } 1-22-95  
RICHARD J. BRYAN 11-22-95 PAUL MEYER 11-22-95  
JAMES E. ENGEL. 11-22-95 DAN WIENSTROER 11-22-95  
—- 35  
### AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement hereby adopt the following  
Amendment No. 2 to the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement, (which restatement is  
effective July 1, 1994). This Amendment is to be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service for approval and the  
adoption of said Amendment is contingent upon said approval.  
l.  
Section 6.1 is hereby amended by deleting the third sentence of the fourth full paragraph and substituting  
therefor the following:  
Notwithstanding the reduction set forth in the previous sentence, a Participant who completes 1,200  
or more hours of service in any Plan Year after his Annuity Starting Date, commencing with the Plan  
Year beginning July 1, 1994, shall accrue at least the benefit set forth in the following table.  
### UNION TRUSTEES EMPLOYER TRUSTEES  
### JOSEPH SHATRO H. FRED PHILIPP, JR.  
### RICHARD J. BRYAN DAN WIENSTROER  
### JAMES E. ENGEL PAUL MEYER  
### AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement (which restatement is  
effective July 1, 1994), hereby adopts the following Amendment No. 3 to the Painters District Council Pension Trust  
and Pian Agreement. This Amendment is to be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service for approval and the adoption  
of said Amendment is contingent upon  
said approval.  
1. Section 5.3B is revised with regard to the Table entitled:  
“Subject to Subsection 5.3C3 Future Service Credits from and after 7/1/94”  
by changing said title by adding the words “thru 6/30/96” at the end of said title.  
2. Section 5.3B is revised by adding a Table, to read as follows:  
Subject to Subsection 5.3C3 Future Service Credits from and after 7/1/96:  
    
601 -  
[201 -  
140] -  
1601 -  
   
2001 -  
a gp rere  
2401 -  
2601 -  
3001 -  
### UNION TRUSTEES  
### JOSEPH SHATRO  
### RICHARD J. BRYAN  
### JAMES E. ENGEL  
400 - 600  
801 - 1000  
1001 - 1200  
1801 - 2000  
2201 - 2400  
280i - 3000  
        
800  
1400  
1600  
1800  
    
     
     
2200  
2600  
2800  
3200  
| 3201 - 281.65 |  
37 —  
$ 44.95  
63.90  
81.65  
100.60  
118.35  
136.10  
155.05  
172.80  
191.75  
209.50  
227.25  
246.15  
263.90  
281.65  
Se  
     
### EMPLOYER TRUSTEES  
### H. FRED PHILIPP, JR.  
### DAN WIENSTROER  
### PAUL MEYER  
### AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2 .  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement hereby adopt the following  
amendments to the Trust and Plan Agreement.  
1. The first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
THIS AGREEMENT, first made and entered into as of the first day of July, 1964, by and between  
### ST. LOUIS PAINTERS AND DECORATORS JOINT TRADE BOARD, INC., a Missouri pro  
forma decree corporation, hereinafter referred to as the BOARD, and any other employers,  
hereinafter referred to as EMPLOYERS, who adhere to the area practice and who have a contract  
with Painters District Council No. 2, hereinafter referred to as the UNION, and certain named  
individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES E.  
### ENGEL, ROBERT A. LUCKS, H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., PAUL MEYER, and DAN WIENSTROER.  
2. The first sentence of Article XVI is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES E. ENGEL and  
ROBERT A. LUCKS have been selected by the Union and H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., PAUL MEYER  
and DAN WIENSTROER have been selected by the Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
JOSEPH SHATRO 10-17-96 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. 10-17-96  
JAMES E. ENGEL 10-17-96 PAUL MEYER 10-17-96  
ROBERT A. LUCKS _ 10-17-96 DAN WIENSTROER 10-17-96  
—  
### AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2 -  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement hereby adopt the following  
amendments to the Trust and Plan Agreement.  
1. The first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the folowing is inserted in its place:  
THIS AGREEMENT, first made and entered into as of the first day of July, 1964, by and between  
### ST. LOUIS PAINTERS AND DECORATORS JOINT TRADE BOARD, INC., a Missouri pro  
forma decree corporation, hereinafter referred to as the BOARD, and any other employers,  
hereinafter referred to as EMPLOYERS, who adhere to the area practice and who have a contract  
with Painters District Council No. 2, hereinafter referred to as the UNION, and certain named  
individuals, as tnitial trustees, whose successors currently are RICHARD BRYAN, JAMES  
### KROUT, ROBERT LUCKS, PAUL MEYER, H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., and DAN WIENSTROER.  
2. The first sentence of Article XVI is deleted and the following ts inserted in its place:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: RICHARD BRYAN, JAMES KROUT and  
ROBERT A. LUCKS have been selected by the Union and H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., PAUL MEYER  
and DAN WIENSTROER have been selected by the Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
RICHARD BRYAN 1}-10-97 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. 11-10-97  
JAMES KROUT 11-10-97 PAUL MEYER 11-10-97  
ROBERT A. LUCKS _ 11-10-97 DAN WIENSTROER 14-10-97  
— 39 —  
### AMENDMENT NO. 6 TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust hereby amend the Trust and Plan Agreement  
by adding the following new subsection E to the end of Section 5.3:  
E. Effective December 1, 1997, each individual who is receiving monthly benefits from this Plan and  
whose Annuity Starting Date was on or before December 1, 1997, shall receive a one-time only extra  
payment equal to the amount of his or her monthly benefit.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 1-13-98 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. 1-13-98  
JAMES KROUT 1-13-98 PAUL MEYER 1-13-98  
### ROBERT A. LUCKS _ 1-13-98 DAN WIENSTROER 1-13-98  
— 40—  
### AMENDMENT NO. 7 TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The following language presently appearing as the first two sentences of the fifth paragraph of Article XXII of  
### the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement is hereby deleted:  
The Trustees shall designate one Trustee as Managing Trustee, and may, from time to time thereafter,  
change such designation. Such Managing Trustee shall have the following rights and powers, in the  
name of and in behalf of, all of the Trustees with full and binding obligation and effect upon all the  
Trustees, to-wit: to receive contributions, to open bank accounts, to sign checks, to pay insurance  
premiums, to keep records of receipts, disbursements and monies on hand and held in the Trust Fund,  
to keep records of ali benefits provided Participants in the Pension Fund, to hire such corporation  
Or persons as may be required for the effictent administration of the Trust Fund, to purchase all  
supplies needed for the proper bookkeeping and proper administration of the Trust Fund and to  
expend from the Funds available, any money necessary for these purposes, to have the books of the  
Trust Fund audited annually, to have the books and auditor’s report available for inspection at all  
times by the other Trustees, Participants, officers of the Union and Employers, and to perform such  
Other functions and duties of a purely ministerial nature as may be determined from time to time by  
the Trustees in the interest of the proper and efficient administration of the Trust,  
The following Janguage is hereby adopted to replace the above-quoted language:  
The Trustees are further authonzed to appoint one from their number to serve as Managing Trustee  
and to delegate to such Managing Trustee such authority and responsibility as they determine to  
delegate and which may lawfully be delegated.  
This amendment js to be effective upon signing by a majority of the Trustees.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 1-22-98 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR.  
JAMES KROUT 1-22-98 PAUL MEYER 1-22-98  
### ROBERT A. LUCKS _ 1-22-98 DAN WIENSTROER 1-22-98  
—— 4|—  
### ARTICLE I  
### ARTICLE I.  
### ARTICLE Ill  
### ARTICLE IV  
### ARTICLE V  
### ARTICLE VI  
### ARTICLE VII  
### ARTICLE VII  
### ARTICLE IX  
### ARTICLE X  
### ARTICLE XI  
### ARTICLE XI  
### ARTICLE XII  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### ARTICLE XV  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
(Restated Effective July 1, 1998)  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Page No.  
### IMtrOCUCtION  
Definitions  
### INES: TIC VG cig THOS ONY agp  
DATION ounces canes spss saree Kemer  
Employer Participation  
Accrual of Benefits  
Conditions for Benefit Entitlement/Types of Benefits  
Vesting Requirements  
Forms of Benefit  
Application for and Timing of Benefit Distribution ee  
Benefit Procedure  
Limitations Of Benefits  
Miscellaneous ProviSiOns  
Right to AMONG 200.  
  
Merger Or Consolidation  
  
Trustees’ Powers af seis  
Governmental Approval  
Effective Date  
### I  
2  
  
5  
5  
6  
9  
15  
16  
. 18  
20  
20  
. 22  
28  
28  
. 33  
### SU)  
3]  
32  
. 32  
### ARTICLE I  
### Definitions  
1.1] TrustAgreement, “Trust Agreement” means those provisions of this Pension Trust and Plan Agreement  
which govern the creation, existence and administration of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust.  
1.2 Governing Law. “Governing Law” means the laws of the State of Missouri, concerning the validity,  
construction and administration of the Trust, except to the extent federal law preempts state law, in which case  
federal law shall be the governing law.  
1.3 Trustees. “Trustees” means the Board of Trustees as established and constituted from time to time in  
accordance with the Trust Agreement.  
1.4 Pension Planor Plan. “Pension Plan” or “Plan” means those documents as adopted by the Trustees and as  
thereafter amended by the Trustees, which govern the creation, existence and administration of the Pension Plan.  
15 Umon. “Union” means Painters District Council No. 2.  
16 Contributing Employer or Employer. “Contributing Employer” or “Employer” means an Employer  
signatory to a Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Union requiring contributions to this Fund and any other  
Employer authorized by the Trust Agreement to contribute to this Fund, provided:  
A. The Employer has been accepted as a Controibuting Employer by the Trustees, and  
B. The Trustees have not, by terminated the Employer’s status as a “Contributing Employer”  
because the Employer has failed, for a period of 120 days after the due date, to make contributions to  
the Fund as provided for in its Agreement.  
An Employer shall not be deemed a Contributing Employer simply because it is part of a controlled group of  
corporations or of a trade or business under common control, some other part of which is a Contributing Employer.  
1.7 Collective Bargaining Agreement, “Collective Bargaining Agreement” means an agreement between the  
Union and an Employer which requires contributions to the Fund.  
1.8 Covered Employment. “Covered Employment” means employment of an Employee by an Employer.  
However, “Covered Employment” shall not include emp!oyment by an Employer after termination of that Employer’s  
status as a Contributing Employer for failure to pay contributions due pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.6.  
1.9 Contribution Period. “Contribution Period” means, with respect to a category of employment, the period  
during which the Employer is a Contributing Employer with respect to the category of employment.  
1.10 Contribution Date, “Contribution Date” shall mean the date of commencement of contribution as set  
forth in an agreement between the Employer and the Union as being the date on which the Employer’s obligation to  
contribute to the Pension Trust shall start.  
Participant. “Participant” means Pensioner or an Employee who meets the requirements for participa-  
tion in the Plan as set forth in Article III.  
1.12 Employee, “Employee” means a person who is an Employee of an Employer and who is: (a) covered by  
a Collective Bargaining Agreement; or (b) a person for whom any other Employer authorized by the Trust  
Agreement to contribute to this Fund makes contributions to this Fund.  
The term “Employee” shall not include any self-employed person or sole proprietor of a business organization, or  
other person who ts prohibited by federal law from participating in the Plan.  
1.13 Pensioner. “Pensioner” means a person to whom a pension under this Plan is being paid or to whom a  
pension would be paid but for time for administrative processing.  
— Dae  
1.14 Beneficiary, means a person (other than a Pensioner) who is receiving benefits under this  
Plan because of his or her designation for such benefits by a Participant or by provisions of this Plan. See also  
Sections 5.2 and 6.7C.  
1.15 Normal Retirement Age/Normal Retirement Date. “Normal Retirement Age” means age 65 or, if later,  
the age of the Participant on the fifth anniversary of his participation. Participation before a Permanent Break in  
Service shal] not be counted. “Normal Retirement Date” means the first date of the month coincident with or next  
following the month in which the Participant reaches his “Normal Retirement Age”.  
1.16 Plan Year. “Plan Year” means the twelve month period from July | through the next June 30. For  
purposes of ERISA regulations, the Plan Year shall serve as the vesting computation period, the benefit accrual  
computation period, and after the initial period of employment, the computation period for eligibility to participate  
in the Plan.  
1.17 Fiscal Year, ‘Fiscal Year” means the period from July 1 through the next June 30 and is the period for  
which various governmental reports are required to be filed by the Plan Administrator.  
1.18 Year of Participation, For the purposes of compliance with Regulation 2530 of the Department of Labor.  
a full “Year of Participation” means a Plan Year during the Contribution Period in which a Participant has completed  
240! or more hours of work in Covered Employment, for Plan Years through the Plan Year ending June 30, 1993.  
For Plan Years beginning July 1, 1993 and thereafter, a full “Year of Participation” means a Plan Year during the  
Contribution Period in which a Participant has completed 3201 or more hours in Covered Employment.  
1.19 Hourof Service, “Hour of Service” means:  
A. An hour of service is each hour for which an employee is patd, or entitled to payment, for the  
performance of duties for the employer during the applicable computation period.  
B. An hour of service is each hour for which an employee is paid, or entitied to payment, by the  
employer on account of a period of time during which no duties are performed (irrespective of whether  
the employment relationship has terminated) due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity (including  
disability), layoff, jury duty, military duty or leave of absence, except that:  
1. No more than 501 hours of service shall be credited under this paragraph 1.19B to an cmployee  
on account of any single continuous period during which the employee performs no duties (whether  
or not such period occurs in a single computation period);  
2. An hour for which an employee ts directly or indirectly paid, or entitled to payment, on account  
of a period during which no duties are performed is not required to be credited to the employee if  
such payment is made or due under a plan maintained solely for purpose of complying with  
applicable workmen’s compensation, or unemployment compensation or disability insurance laws;  
and  
3. Hours of service are not required to be credited for a payment which solely reimburses an  
employee for medical or medically related expenses incurred by the  
For purposes of this paragraph 1.19B, a payment shall be deemed to be made by or due from an  
employer regardless of whether such payment is made by or due from the employer directly or  
indirectly through, among others, a trust fund or insurer, to which the employer contributes or pays  
premiums and regardless of whether contributions made or due to the trust fund, insurer or other  
entity are for the benefit of particular employees in the aggregate.  
C. An hour of service is each hour for which back pay, irrespective of mitigation of damages, is either  
awarded or agreed to by the employer. The same hours of service shall not be credited both under  
paragraph 1.19A or 1.19B, as the case may be, and under this paragraph 1.19C.  
D. Effective July 1, 1986, for purposes of computing hours for determining whether a one-year break in  
service has occurred only, an hour of service includes each hour up to a maximum of 501 hours, during  
a period of absence from covered employment, if the absence from such employment was due to one  
of the following:  
— Fe  
. Pregnancy of the Participant;  
2. Birth of a child of the Participant;  
3. Placement of a child with the Participant in connection with the adoption of such child by the  
Participant, or  
4. Caring for such child by the Participant.  
The amount of hours to be credited for the period of absence shall be the number of hours that  
normally would be credited to the Participant, but for the absence from covered employment, if such  
an amount can be ascertained. If this amount is not able to be ascertained, the Participant shall be  
credited with eight hours of service for each working day during the leave.  
The hours of service shall be credited in the vesting computation year in which they occur, if the leave  
occurs totally within one vesting computation year. If the leave takes place in more than one vesting  
computation year, the hours of service shall be credited in the vesting year during which the absence  
begins, if the crediting is necessary to prevent a break in service, otherwise the hours of service shall  
be credited in the following vesting computation year.  
Hours of service under this subparagraph shail be computed only for purposes of determining whether  
a one-year break in service has occurred. Such hours will not be counted toward credited service nor  
will they be counted toward determining whcther the Participant has completed a year of service for  
vesting purposes.  
The Participant is required to furnish, upon request by the Plan Administrator or an authorized repre-  
sentative thereof, such timely information as the Plan may reasonably require to establish that the  
absence was for one of the reasons stated in this subparagraph and/or to establish the number of days  
for which there was such an absence.  
E. Effective January |, 1994, an hour of service for purposes of determining whether a Participant has  
completed a year of service for vesting purposes will include hours of service the Participant would  
have earned but for his having taken approved leave of absence under the Family and Medical Leave  
Act. Such hours will not be counted for purposes of benefit accrual.  
Hours of service shall be computed and credited in accordance with Department of Labor Regulations  
2530.200b.  
1.20 Work, “Work” means each hour for which an Employee is paid, or entitled to payment, by an Employer  
for services performed.  
1.21 Continuous Employment, “Continuous Employment” means any Periods of Service not separated by  
quit, discharge or other termination of employment between the periods.  
1.22 Contnbutions. “Contributions” shall mean the rate or amount to be paid to the Trust Fund as specified in  
collective bargaining between the Employer and the Union.  
1.23 Gender, Except as the context may specifically require otherwise, use of the masculine gender shall be  
understood to include both masculine and feminine gender.  
1.24 Annuity Starting Date, The “Annuity Starting Date” is the first day of the first period for which an  
amount is payable as an annuity. The Participant may elect this Annuity Starting Date after fulfilling all of the  
conditions for entitlement to benefits, subject to the following:  
A. The date must be at least 30 days and no more than 90 days after the Participant has received the Notice of  
right to waive Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity described in Section 8.4. The Notice will be given to the  
Participant upon request. The Notice does not apply to Alternate Payees or Beneficiaries.  
B. The Annuity Starting Date will not be later than the Participant’s Required Beginning Date as defined in  
Section 9.4A.  
A participant who begins receiving benefits before his or her Normal Retirement Age and then earns additional  
benefit accruals under the Plan through re-employment will have a separate Annuity Starting Date determined under  
this Section with respect to the additional accruals, except that an Annuity Starting Date that is on or after the  
Participant’s Normal Retirement Age shall apply for any additional benefits through after that date.  
(See Section 6.1 for rules concerning payment of benefits accrued after a Participant’s Annuity Starting Date that is  
on or after the Participant’s Retirement Age).  
1.25 Non-Bargained Employee. A “Non-Bargained Employee” is an employee who is not covered by a  
collective bargaining agreement between the Union and a Contributing Employer, but for whom contributions are  
made to this Fund. This term includes any employee of the Painters District Council No. 2, Painters District Council  
No. 2 Unity Hall Corporation or any employee of the Trustees of Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Plan,  
Pension Plan, Vacation Fund or Apprenticeship and Journeyman Fund, to the extent the Employer has agreed to  
make contributions to this Fund on behalf of said employee.  
### ARTICLE II  
### Name and Objectives  
This Trust is to be known as the “Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust”. This Agreement contains the  
governing provisions of the Trust, as well as the provisions of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Plan. This  
Agreement shall be known as the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement.  
This Trust is designed to provide retirement, survivor, disability and death benefits for Participants and  
Beneficiaries, who are entitled to receive such benefits as defined in this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE II  
### Participation  
The term Participant shall mean any Employee of a Contributing Employer who is engaged in Covered Empioy-  
ment during the Contribution Period for that Employer. Any Employee becomes a Participant upon completion of  
one hour of covered service. Unless otherwise specifically provided, a Participant’s participation ceases as of the  
first day of the Plan Year following the Plan Year during which the Participant experiences a one year break in  
service, as defined in Section 7.3A, unless such Participant is then a pensioner.  
An Employee who has lost his status as a Participant shall again become a Participant upon completion of one  
hour of covered service.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### Emplover Participation  
When an Employer of one or more eligible Employees signifies its agreement to the Trustees in writing to pay for  
the benefits as provided herein and to be bound by the terms of this Plan and Trust, such Employer shall, if accepted  
by the Trustees, become a Contributing Employer. The Trustees have the night to refuse to accept an Employer as a  
contributing Employer or to terminate an Employer’s status as a contributing Employer, in their discretion.  
Each Contributing Employer who agrees in writing to contribute for the purpose of providing benefits under this  
Plan and executes an agreement subscribing to and.being bound by the terms of this agreement, shafl contribute the  
money per hour as shall be negotiated from time to time by Employers and the Union on behalf of Participants who  
shall be employed by Contributing Employers as evidenced by agreenments from time to time between Contributing  
Employers and the Unton.  
The contributions as established from time to time in the Agreements shall be due for each pay period on or before  
the Friday of the week following the week in which the pay day for that pay period occured. A Delinquent Employer  
shall be assessed liquidated damages of 10% up to 30 days of delinquency, after which liquidated damages of  
1-1/2% of the then current delinquency for each month or part of a month, shall be assessed and compounded  
monthly, until the full contribution is made.  
= 5 —  
In any legal action instituted to recover delinquent contributions or to recover unpaid liquidated damages, the  
Contributing Employer shall be obligated to pay reasonable attorneys’ fees and accounting fees in addition to all  
principal amounts due and in addition to all other relief prescribed by law.  
### ARTICLE V  
Accrual of t  
5.1 This Article sets forth the rules for determining and computing the amount of a Participant’s  
accrued benefit under the Plan. The accumulation and retention of accrued benefit credits are subject to the  
requirements concerning Years of Vesting Service and Breaks in Service. The Benefit Amounts are subject to  
reduction on account of the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity (Article VJ) and modification if the Participant  
retires with an annuity starting date other than his normal retirement date, or with a form of benefits other than the  
normal form of benefits.  
Eligibility to receive a benefit based on the Participant’s accrued benefit depends on mecting the conditions for  
benefit entitlement (Article VI) and/or the rules concerning Years of Vesting Service and Permanent Break in  
Service (Article VID.  
5.2 Normal Form of Benefit. For purposes of thts Plan the normal form of benefits is a life annuity, with a 60  
month guarantee. This form includes the payment of a monthly amount commencing with the Annuity Starting Date  
and continuing until the month in which the Participant dies. If the death of the Participant occurs after his Annuity  
Starting Date, but before all sixty (60) guaranteed monthly payments have been made, the remaining payments shall  
be made to the named beneficiary, if then surviving, or if such beneficiary is not then surviving, to the contingent  
bencficiarey, if then surviving. Jf no designated beneficiary is surviving at the time of the Participant’s death, the  
remaining payments shall be made to the Participant’s cstate. If a beneficiary who is receiving guaranteed payments  
dies before all guaranteed payments are made, payments will continue to the contingent beneficiary, if one is then  
surviving. If no contingent beneficiary is then surviving, the remaining payments will be made to the estate of the  
beneficiary who last received a payment, unt! all guaranteed payments have been made.  
The amount of benefit stated in the Plan (Section 5.3) is the amount which the Participant would receive each  
month, if the Participant receives a life annuity with a 60 month guarantee, commencing at normal retirement date.  
In the event the Participant receives a form of payment different from the life annuity with a 60 month guarantee, or  
in the event the Participant begins to receive at a time other than his normal retirement date, the monthly  
amount which the Participant will be entitled to receive will be different from the amount stated in this section. The  
amount received will be the actuarial equivalent of the amount of benefit stated in Section 5.3; that is, it will be the  
actuarial equivalent of the amount which the Participant would be entitled to under the life annuity with a 60 month  
guarantee form of payment, commencing at normal retirement date.  
5.3. Amount of Benefit Stated in the Normal Benefit Form, The amount of benefit that a Participant accrues  
stated in the normal form of benefits (a life annuity with a 60 month guarantee) commencing at Normal Retirement  
Date, is the sum of the amount determined under subsection §.3A and the amount determined under Section 5.3B.  
A. The amount determined under this subsection (“accredited past service benefit’) is $2.50 for cach year of  
accredited past service for any Participant who participated on and after July 1, 1964. An eligible  
Participant receives a year of accredited past service for each continuous year of service prior to July 1,  
1964. No Participant who first participated in the Plan after July t, 1964 shall be entitled to past service  
credits. The amount determined under this subsection is subject to the rules concerning permanent breaks  
in Service.  
B. determined under this subsection (“accredited future service benefit”) is the sum of the amounts  
eamed by the Participant under all applicable tables. Accredited future service benefit will be accrued under  
this subsection for each 12 consecutive month period commencing with July 1, 1964, and subsequent  
thereof (“benefit accrual year’), based on the number of “hours of service” completed by the  
Participant during the particular benefit accrual year, subject to the following rules:  
1. No accredited future service benefit will be accrued by a Participant for any benefit accrual year during  
which the Participant fails to complete at least 400 hours of service.  
— § —  
2. The accrual of accredited future service benefits under this subsection is subject to the rules concerning  
permanent breaks in service.  
3. The amounts set out in these tables are subject to the rules contained in Subsection 5.3C.  
The amount of accredited future service benefit accrued by a Participant during each benefit accrual year is:  
Total Hours of Service Future Service Credits Future Service Credits  
as defined below from 7/1/64 thru 6/30/72 V1/72 thru 6/30/76  
_ July | to June 30 each year  
400 to and including 600 hours $ 1.50 $ 1.50  
601 to 800 hours 1.80 2.25  
801 to 1,000 hours 2.10 3.00  
1,001 to 1,200 hours 2.40 3.75  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 2.70 4.50  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 3,00 5.25  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 3.30 6.00  
[,801 to 2,000 hours 3,60 6.75  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 3.90 7.50  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 4.20 8.25  
2,401! and over 4,20 8.25  
Total Hours of Future Service Future Service Future Service Future Service  
Service as Credits Credits Credits Credits  
defined below 7/1/76 thru 7/1/78 thru 7/1/80 thru 7/1/84 thru  
from July 1 to 6/30/78 6/30/80 6/30/84 11/30/84  
June 30 each year  
400 to and including  
600 hours $ 3.00 $ 4.50 $ 5.65 $ 6.50  
601 to 800 hours 4.50 6.75 8.45 9.60  
801 to 1,000 hours 6.00 9.00 11.25 12.75  
1,001 to 1,200 hours 7.50 14.25 14.05 15.90  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 9.00 13.50 16.90 19.05  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 10.50 15.75 19.70 22.20  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 12.00 18.00 22.50 25.35  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 13.50 20.25 25.30 28.45  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 15.00 22.50 28.15 31.65  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 16.50 24.75 30.95 34.80  
2,401 and over 16.50 24.75 30.95 34.80  
'2,401 is considered full-time employment for purposes of accredited future service benefits for all accrual years through the year ending June 30,  
1993, For benefit accrual years beginning July 1, 1993 and thereafter, 3,20! hours of service is considered full-time employment for purposes of  
accredited future service benefits.  
Total Hours of Subject to Sub- Subject to Sub-  
Service as section 5.3C3 section 5.3C3  
defined below Future Service Future Service  
from July 1 to Credits Credits  
June 30 each year 12/1/84 thru 7/1/85 thru  
6/30/85? 6/30/86  
400 to 600 hours $ 16.25 $ 21.85  
601 to 800 hours 23.00 30.85  
801 to 1,000 hours 30.00 40.10  
1,001 to 1,200 hours 37.00 49,30  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 44.05 58.60  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 51.00 67.80  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 58.00 77.00  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 65.00 86.25  
2,001 to 2,206 hours 72.006 95.50  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 79.00 104.75  
2,401 and over 79,00 104.75  
Subject to Sub- Subject to Sub-  
section 5.3C3 section §.3C3  
Future Service Future Service  
Credits Credits  
from 7/1/86 thru from 7/1/89 thru  
6/30/89 6/30/93  
400 to 600 hours $ 31.45 $ 35.30  
601 to 800 hours 44.35 49.75  
801 to 1,000 hours 57.40 64.30  
1,001 to 1,200 hours 70.45 78.90  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 83.60 93.60  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 96.65  
1,60 to 1,800 hours 109.70 122.80  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 122.80 137.40  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 135.90 152.05  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 147.05 164.75  
2,401 and over 147.05 164. 75  
*Subject to Section 5.3C4,  
Total Hours of Subject to Sub- Subject to Sub- Subject to Sub-  
Service as section 5.3C3 section 5.3C3 section 5.3C3  
defined below Future Service Future Service Future Service  
From July | to Credits Credits Credits  
June 30 each year from 7/1/93 from 7/1/94 from and after  
thru 6/30/94 thru 6/30/96 7/1/96  
40010 600 hours $ 38.70 $ 42.10 $ 44,95  
601 to 800 hours 54.55 59.40 63.90  
801 to 1,000 hours 70.50 76.70 81.65  
1,001 to 1,200 hours 86.50 94.15 100.60  
1,201 to 1,400 hours 102.60 111.60 118.35  
1,401 to 1,600 hours 118.60 128.95 136.10  
1,601 to 1,800 hours 134.60 146.40 155.05  
1,801 to 2,000 hours 150.60 163.75 172.80  
2,001 to 2,200 hours 166.70 181.25 191.75  
2,201 to 2,400 hours 180.60 196.45 209.50  
2,401 to 2,600 hours 197.30 214.60 227.25  
2,601 to 2,800 hours 213.10 231.80 246.15  
2,801 to 3,000 hours 228.90 249.00 263.90  
3,001 to 3,200 hours 244.50 265.90 281.65  
3,201 or more 244.50 265.90 281.65  
C. The amount of accredited future service accrued by a Participant under the foregoing tables, is subject to the  
following rules:  
1. Any Participant or Beneficiary whose annuity starting date was prior to July 1, 1984 (including  
disability benefits), shall, effective with the monthly payment due on July 1, 1984, receive benefits in  
the amount of his June 1984 payment, increased by 20%.  
The monthly benefit amount of any Participant or Beneficiary whose Annuity Starting Date (including  
disability benefits) is July 1, 1984 or thereafter, shall be based on the greater of:  
a. The Participant’s accrued benefit as of the Annuity Starting Date determined under the tables set  
out in subsection 5.3B, or  
b. The Participant’s accrued benefit as of June 30, 1984 determined under the tables set out in  
subsection 5.3B, increased by 20%.  
  
2. Notwithstanding other provisions of this Article V and excepting Participants or Beneficiaries of  
Participants who are employed by contributing employers who are signatory to agreements with Sign  
and Pictorial Painters Local Union 774, the accredited future service benefit of any Participant or  
Beneficiary whose Annuity Starting Date is on or after July 1, 1985, as of June 30, 1985, shall be the  
benefit computed under the tables set forth in subsection 5.3B as of June 30, 1985, without regard to the  
increase in the foregoing subsection 5.3C1, increased by 20%. The resulting accrued benefit shall be  
added to the accredited future service benefit, if any, accrued for service on and after July 1, 1985, to  
arrive at the Participant’s total accrued benefit.  
3. The tables marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3” do not apply to Participants who are employed by  
contributing employers who are signatory to agreements with Sign and Pictorial Painters Local Union  
774. The accredited future service benefit accrued by Participants who are employed by contributing  
employers signatory to agreements with Local 774 shail, for any future service benefit accrual year, be  
the amount set out in the last most recently effective table which is not marked “Subject to Subsection  
5.3C3.” The accrued benefit for such a Participant shall be the total of all amounts accrued under the  
applicable tables which are not marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3”, adjusted by Subsection 5.3C1,  
if applicable.  
4. Notwithstanding the above, Participants shall have their accrued benefit for the period July 1, 1984  
through June 30, 1985 computed under the following table, if the computation results in a higher  
benefit than the combined total of the accrued benefit computed under the two tables entitled, “Future  
Service Credits 7/1/84 thru 11/30/84” and “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3 Future Service Credits 12/1/84  
thru 6/30/85”:  
Total Hours of Service 7/1/84 thru 6/30/85  
Plan Year  
400- 600 $ 12.19  
601- 800 17.42  
801 - 1,000 22.81  
1,001 - 1,200 28.21  
1,201 - 1,400 33.63  
1,401 - 1,600 39.00  
1,601 - 1,800 44.40  
1,801 - 2,000 49.77  
2,001 - 2,200 55.19  
2,201 - 2,400 60.58  
2,401 & over 60.58  
This subparagraph does not apply to Participants who were employed by contributing employers who  
are signatory to agreements with Sign and Pictorial Painters Local Union 774 during the period | 2/1/84  
through 6/30/85.  
D. Any Participant or Beneficiary (except for Participants or Beneficiaries of Participants whose benefits are  
based on service for contributing employers who were or are signatory to agreements with Sign and  
Pictorial Painters, Local Union 774) whose annuity starting date was prior to January 1, 1992 (including  
disability benefits), shall, effective with the monthly benefit payment due for January, 1992, have his monthly  
benefit increased by the greater of five percent (5%) of the monthly payment or Ten Dollars ($10.00).  
### ARTICLE VI  
onditions for Benefit Entitleme of Benefits  
In order to be entitled to received benefits under this Plan, a Participant or Beneficiary must meet the  
requirements for one of the types of benefits described in this Article VI.  
6.1 Normal Retirement Benefit. If a Participant reaches his Normal Retirement Date while still an active  
Participant in the Plan (i.c. prior to his Participation ceasing within the meaning of Article IH), the Participant shall  
be entitled to a Normal Retirement Benefit. If a Participant reaches his Normal Retirement Date while not an active  
Participant, but has met one of the requirements of Article VIE such that he has become vested in his accrued benefit,  
the Participant shall be entitled to a Normal] Retirement Benefit upon reaching his Normal Retirement Date.  
—9—  
A Normal Retirement Benefit 1s paid in the form provided under Article VIII and is based on the Participant’s  
accrued benefit as computed under Article V, without reduction for early retirement.  
A participant who has met the requirements for a Normal] Retirement Benefit is entitled to begin to receive  
benefits as of his Norma] Retirement Date without regard to whether he continues 10 work in covered employment  
and without regard to whether he is entitled to Social Security Bencfits.  
In the event a Participant accrues additional accredited future service benefits for service after his Normal  
Retirement Annuity Starting Date, he shal] be credited with such service. However, any such additional accredited  
future service shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the actuarial value of any normal retirement benefits paid to  
the Participant subsequent to his Normal Retirement Date. Notwithstanding the reduction set forth in the previous  
sentence, a Participant who completes 1,200 or more hours of service in any Plan Year after his Annuity Starting  
Date, commencing with the Plan Year beginning July 1, 1994, shall accrue at least the benefit set forth in the  
following table:  
     
   
Additional Monthly Benefit  
Stated in the Normal Form  
of Benefit  
   
      
         
   
    
   
   
   
   
     
    
Hours Worked In Plan Year  
1,200 - 1,399  
1,400 - 1,599  
1,600 - 1,799  
1,800 - 1,999  
0  
$45  
$60  
   
Additional accredited future service earned in any benefit accrual year for service after the Participant’s Normal  
Retirement Date, shall become payable as soon as administratively feasible following the end of that benefit accrual  
year; the first payment shall include retroactive payments to and including the first payment due July !. The Participant’s  
post Normal Retirement Age clection as to the form of benefits will apply to the additional accredited service  
accrued after his Normal Retirement Date.  
6.2 Postponed Retirement Date, Subject to the requirements of subsection 9.4, a Participant who has met the  
requirements for a Normal Retirement Benefit may elect to postpone his Annuity Starting Date to a date of his  
choice after his Normal Retirement Date. In such event, the Participant shalt notify the Fund Office of his intent to  
postpone his Annuity Starting Date and, if he knows, of his postponed Annuity Starting Date. The Participant shall,  
within a reasonable time of said notification, receive the notification described in subsection 8.4. The Participant’s  
election period for purposes of subsection 8.3, shall be the ninety (90) day period immediately preceding the  
Participant’s elected Postponed Annuity Starting Date. In the event of a Postponed Annuity Starting Date, the amount  
of Participant’s monthly benefit shall be actuarially adjusted to reflect the later commencement datc. The actuarial  
adjustment for any additional accredited service which accrues for service after the Participant’s Normal Retirement  
Date shall run from the date that the benefits would have first been payable (i.e., September | following the end of  
the bencfit accrual year in which the benefits accrued). In no event shali the Participant be permitted to postpone his  
Annuity Starting Date to a date after his “Required Beginning Date,” as defined in Section 9.4A.  
   
—10—  
6.3  
Early Retire enefit  
A.  
A Participant may clect an Early Retirement Benefit (to be computed in accordance with Section 6,3E)  
by electing an Annuity Starting Date at any time before his Normal Retirement Date, after meeting the  
following eligibility requirements:  
1. Attainment of age 62, and  
2. Completion of ten (10) years of vesting credit under the Plan.  
Effective July 1, 1988, and thereafter, the following provisions shall apply for all Participants except  
Participants who are employed by Contributing Employers who are signatory to agreements with Sign  
and Pictorial Painters Local Union 774 (the early retirement eligibility and benefit amount of these  
excluded Participants are to continue to be determined under subsection 6.3A).  
1. A Participant may elect an Early Retirement Benefit (to be computed in accordance with  
subsection 6.3E) by electing an Annuity Starting Date at any time before his Normal Retirement  
Date, after meeting the following requirements:  
a. Attainment of age 60, and  
b. Completion of ten (10) years of vesting credit under the Plan.  
### WN  
A Participant may elect an Early Retirement Benefit (to be computed without the reduction set  
forth in subsection 6.3E) by electing an Annuity Starting Date before his Norma] Retirement Date,  
aftcr meeting the following eligtbility requirements:  
a. Attainment of age 60, and  
b. Completion of ten (10) years of vesting service under the Plan, and  
c. Accrual of twenty-five (25) years of credited service as defined herein. For purposes of this  
subsection 6.3B2, a year of credited service is any year in which the Participant accrued any  
benefit under the Plan (including a year of past service credit under the Plan). In addition, as  
to Participants who were Participants in the Plan as of July 1, 1988, a year of credited service  
for purposes of this subsection 6.3B2 includes any year of service within the geographic  
jurisdiction of Painters District Council No. 2, as it was constituted on July 1, 1988, under a  
collective bargaining agreement to which a union affiliated with the International  
Brotherhood of Painters was a party.  
Effective September 1, 1998, and thereafter, the following provisions shall apply for all Participants  
who are active Participants on or after Aprif 1, 1998 except Participants who are employed by  
Contributing Employers who are signatory to agrcements with Sign and Painters Local Union  
774 (the early retirement eligibility and benefit amount of these excluded Participants are to continue  
to be determined under subsection 6.3A). A Participant may elect an Early Retirement Benefit (to be  
computed without the reduction set forth in subsection 6.3E) by electing an Annuity Starting Date, at  
any timc before his Norma! Retirement Date, after meeting the following eligibility requirements:  
1. Attainment of age 58, and  
2. Completion of ten (10) years of vesting service under the Plan, and  
3. Accrual of thirty (30) years of credited service, as defined herein. For purposes of this Section  
6.3C3, a year of credited service is any year in which the Participant accrued any benefit under the  
Plan (including a year of past service credit under the Plan). In addition, as to Participants who  
were Participants in the Plan as of April 1, 1998, a year of credited service for purposes of this  
subsection 6.3C.3 includes any year of service within the geographic jurisdiction of Painters  
District Council No. 2, as it was constituted on September 1, 1998, under a collective bargaining  
agreement to which a union affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Painters was a party.  
The eligibility provisions of this section represent alternative eligibility provisions to those set out  
in subsections 6.3A and 6.3B and do not replace the eligibility provisions set out in those  
subsections.  
—i1—  
D. Except as specified in Section 8.2 below, the Early Retirement Benefit shall be paid in the Normal  
Form of Benefits under the Plan (a life annuity with a 60 month guarantee). The Participant may elect  
any Annuity Starting Date after the date of his election and after meeting the applicable eligibility  
requirements.  
The amount of Early Retirement Benefit which the Participant will be entitled to receive each month,  
stated in the form of a life annuity with a sixty (60) month guarantee will be the Participant’s Normal  
Benefit Amount, computed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3, reduced by one-half of  
one percent (1/2 of 1%) for each full month that the Participant ts younger than age 65 as of his Early  
Retirement Annuity Starting Date.  
For any additional accredited future service which the Participant accrues after his Early Retirement  
Annuity Starting Date, the Participant is entitled to elect Annuity Starting Date(s), and for each such  
election, the Participant will receive the notices and election options set forth in Article VIII. Likewise,  
the spousal consent requirements of Article VIII will continue to apply to any such election.  
Notwithstanding the above, the first valid election of an Annuity Starting Date and Form of Benefits  
which the Participant makes on or after his Normal Retirement Date will govern all additional benefits  
accrued thereafter.  
6.4 Tota] and Permanent Disability Benefit.  
A.  
A Participant who becomes totally and permanently disabled, while still a Participant in the Plan, and  
after the Participant has earned ten (10) years of vesting credit, may elect to receive the Total and  
Permanent Disability Benefits described in this Section.  
For purposes of this Article, participation ceases on the first day of the Plan Year following the Plan  
Year during which a Participant experiences a one year break in service as defined in Section 7.3A.  
For purposes of this Article, effective March I, 1986, a Participant shall be deemed to be totally and  
permanently disabled only if he is determined to be totally and permanently disabled by the Social  
Security Administration.  
The Benefit provided by this Article is not available to a former Participant whose participation ceased  
within the meaning of this Section, prior to his becoming disabled. The Benefit provided by this  
Article is not available to a Participant who the Trustees determine has become disabled while en-  
gaged in the commission of a felony or as a result of willful intention to injure himsclf or to induce an  
illness that could result in disability.  
Such Participant who shall be so certified as totally and permanently disabled shall be entitled to  
receive a monthly disability pension in the amount of his accrued benefit stated in the Normal Form of  
Benefits (but in no event less than Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) per month), commencing with the  
month in which he is eligible to receive his first disability payment from the Social Security  
Administration and he shall continue to receive such disability pension until the earliest of death,  
recovery from his total and permanent disability, the election of an Early Retirement Benefit, or  
attainment of Normal Retirement Age.  
Upon attaining Normal Retirement Age (or at Early Retirement Annuity Starting Date, if elected by  
the Participant), the Participant’s Benefits shall convert to one of the forms of benefit payable for the  
Normal Retirement Benefit (or Early Retirement Benefit) and the Total and Permanent Disability  
Benefit shall cease. At that time the Participant shall receive the notices and elections that a Participant  
would receive at Normal Retirement Age. The Participant’s monthly benefit after converting to Early  
or Normal! Retirement Benefit will in no event be less than Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) per month.  
Nothing in this Section shall affect the nght of a Participant who ts otherwise eligible for any benefit  
under this Plan. Nor shail the receipt of benefits under this Section cause a reduction in the amount of  
retirement or other benefits which may be due to the Participant or his beneficiary under other  
provisions of this Plan. A Participant who receives benefits under this Section shall be entitled to the  
same retirement benefits (Preretirement Survivor Annuity, Early Retirement Benefit and Normal  
Retirement Benefit) in the same form, under the same conditions and with the same notification and  
election procedures as he would otherwise have been entitled to if he had not received the disability  
benefits.  
—12—  
6.5 Death Benefit. Effective March 1, 1986, in addition to the benefits otherwise provided by this Plan and  
Trust, the Plan and Trust shall pay a death benefit in the amount of $3,000 to the designated beneficiary of any  
Participant who has retired under this Plan on July 1, 1982 or thereafter, provided the Participant was an active  
Participant at the time of his Annuity Starting Date. For purposes of this paragraph, the term retirement means that  
the Participant commences receiving a benefit payment under this Plan other than a Total and Permanent Disability  
Payment. For purposes of this paragraph, the term active Participant means a Participant whose participation has not  
ceased under Article III.  
Effective with respect to Participants who die September 1, 1989 or thereafter and who otherwise meet the re-  
quirements of this Section 6.5 for a death benefit, the amount of the death benefit shall be $5,000. This increase shall  
not apply to any Participant who was employed by an employer which is signatory to an agreement with Sign and  
Pictorial Painters Local Union 774, during the Plan Year during which the Participant last completed an hour of  
service.  
Effective with respect to Participants who die October 1, 1991 or thereafter and who otherwise meet the re-  
quirements of this Section 6.5 for a death benefit, the Participant is eligible for Death Benefit only if the Partici-  
pant was (at the time of his Annuity Starting Date under the Pension Plan) a covered Participant for the Death  
Benefit under the Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Fund or on Waiver of Premium for Disability under the  
Painters District Council No. 2 Welfare Fund or the Painters District Council No. 2 Group Insurance Trust. For  
purposes of the death benefit for deaths that occur on or after October 1, 1991, it is no longer required that the  
Participant shall have been an active Participant in the Painters District Council Pension Plan at the time of his  
Annuity Starting Date.  
6.6 Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity,  
A. General Rule, A Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity (as defined in this Section) is payable to  
the surviving spouse of any Participant who dies after August 22, 1984 but before his Annuity Starting  
Date, who has been married to the surviving spouse for a period of one year immediately preceding the  
date of death, and who has met one of the requirements of Article VII and was therefore vested as of  
the date of his death.  
B. Definition, A Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity is an annuity payable to the surviving spouse  
of a Participant who meets the requirements of Section 6.6A computed under Section 6.6C.  
Cc C utation of Oualified Preretirement Survivor Annuit  
1. If a Participant dics after the earliest retirement age under the Plan which applies to that  
Participant, the amount of the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity payable to the surviving  
spouse is the amount which would have been payable to the surviving spouse as a survivor annuity  
if the Participant had retired with a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity on the day before the  
Participant’s death. If, however, the surviving spouse elects to defer the Annuity Starting Date  
under subsection 6.6C.4, the amount of the monthly benefit shalf be computed under that  
subsection.  
2. Ifa Participant dies before the earliest retirement age under the Plan which applies to that Partici-  
pant, the amount of the Qualified Prerctirement Survivor Annuity payable to the surviving  
spouse is the amount which would be payable to the surviving spouse as a suvivor annuity, if the  
Participant had:  
a. Separated from service on the day he fast worked in covered employment;  
b. Survived to the earliest retirement date under the Plan which applies to that Participant;  
c. Retired on that date with a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity, and  
d. Died on the next day.  
If, however, the surviving spouse elects to defer the Annuity Starting Date under subsection 6.6C.4,  
the amount of the monthly benefit shall be computed under that subsection.  
—13—  
   
6.7  
A.  
B.  
C.  
3. Subject to the next succeeding paragraph (6.6C4), the monthly payments to the surviving spouse  
shall-commence on the first day of the month coinciding with or following the later of:  
a. The date of the Participant’s death, or  
b. The earliest retirement date under the Plan which applics to that Participant;  
and shall continue until and including the payment for the month in which the surviving spouse  
dies. No survivorship benefits shall be payable if the Participant’s spouse fails to survive to the  
date on which the annuity payments are to begin. However, in such event, benefits may be payable  
under Section 6.7.  
4, Notwithstanding the above, the surviving spouse may defer his or her Annuity Starting Date to  
any date on or before the later of:  
a. The Participant’s Normal Retirement Date; or  
b. The first day of the month coincident with or next following the Participant’s 62nd birthday.  
In the event the surviving spouse defers the Annuity Starting Date for the survivorship benefit, the  
amount will be the amount which would have been payable to the surviving spouse as a survivor  
annuity if the Participant had retired with a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity two days before  
the deferred Annuity Starttng Date and died the next day. If the Participant’s spouse clects ta defer  
the Annuity Starting Date for the survivorship benefits, and fails to survive the Annuity Starting  
Date, no survivorship benefits will be payable. However, in such cvent, benefits may be payable  
under Section 6.7.  
5. The Trustees shall distribute the survivorship benefits to the surviving spouse at any time prior to  
the annuity starting date, in lump sum form, if the present value of the benefit does not exceed  
$5,000.  
For purposes of determining the present value of an annuity as of the date of distribution, the Plan  
is required to use an interest rate no greater than the rate used by the Pension Benefit Guaranty  
Corporation in valuing a lump sum distribution upon Plan termination.  
Beneficia nnuit  
A Beneficiary Annuity, as defined in subsection 6.7B shall be paid to the beneficiary determined under  
subsection 6.7C of any Participant who meets either of the fotlowing eligibility requirements:  
1. A vested Participant who dies before his Annuity Starting Date but has not met the requirements  
for a Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity; or  
2. A vested Participant who dies before his Annuity Starting Date while eligible for a Qualified  
Preretirement Survivor Annuity, but whose surviving spouse dies prior to the surviving spouse’s  
Annuity Starting Date under the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity.  
The Beneficiary Annuity is the monthly amount which would have been payable under the Normal  
Form of Benefits (a life annuity with a 60 month guarantee) commencing at the Participant’s Normal  
Retirement Date, provided, however, that this amount is payable to the beneficiary or  
determined under Section 6.7C only for 60 months. Bencfit payments to the benficiary will  
commence with the first day of the first month following the month in which the Participant would  
have reached age 60 or if later, the first day of the month following the month in which the Participant  
dies or if later, the first day of the month following the death of the surviving spouse.  
The beneficiary or beneficiaries entitled to the Beneficiary Annuity shall be determined in the same  
manner as the beneficiary is determined under Section 5.2, except that if payment is required to be  
made under that section to the Participant’s estate and if more than one year has passed since the  
participant’s death, the payments shall be made to the Particitpant’s legal heirs determined under the  
laws of intestacy of the State of Missouri as of the date the payments are to commence.  
This Section shall be effective with regard to an eligible Participant whose death occurs on or before  
January 19, 1995.  
— 14—  
### ARTICLE VII  
### Vesting Requirements  
7.1. General Rule, A Participant meets the requirements of Article VI, and is therefore “vested” for purposes  
of eligibility for plan benefits, if he meets one of the following requirements:  
A.  
B.  
A Participant who has completed ten years of vesting service as defined in Section 7.2 (excluding  
years of vesting service prior to a permanent break in service) is vested;  
A Participant who has completed five years of vesting service as defined in Section 7.2 (excluding  
years of vesting service prior to a permanent break in service) and whose participation ceases within  
the meaning of Article III after the Participant has reached the age of forty-five (45) is vested.  
A Participant whose termination of participation within the meaning of Article IIT occurs after the  
Participant has reached the age of sixty (60) is vested.  
For any Participant who has one hour of service on or after July 1, 1989 and who is not a Participant  
as a result of being covered under a collective bargaining agreement, that Participant is vested if he  
has completed five (5) years of vesting service as defined in Section 7.2 (excluding years of vesting  
service prior to a permanent break in service).  
Any Participant who has one hour of service on or after July I, 1998, is vested if he had completed five  
(5) years of vesting service as defined in Section 7.2 (excluding years of service prior to a permanent  
break in service),  
Year of Vesting Service.  
The vesting computation period is the twelve month period commencing July 1 of each year and  
ending June 30 of the following year.  
A Participant whose participation ceased (within the meaning of Article IIE) on or after January 1,  
1976, earns a year of vesting service for any vesting computation period up to and including the  
vesting computation period which ended Junc 30, 1992, during which the Participant completed one  
hour of service, as defined in Section 1.19.  
For each vesting computation period commencing with the vesting computation penod that begins  
July 1, 1992, a Participant carns a year of vesting service for each such vesting computation period  
during which the Participant completed 400 or more hours of service as defined in Section 1.19.  
Years of vesting service prior to a permanent break in service (as defined in Section 7.3D) are forfeited  
and do not count toward years of vesting service.  
A Participant who ceased participation prior to December 1, 1974, will be deemed to have completed  
10 years of vesting service (or 5 years of vesting service if applicable) only if the Participant  
completes said years of vesting service in accordance with the rules contained in this Section 7.2 and  
if the date of the Participant’s cessation of participation is after the tenth anniversary (or if applicable,  
the fifth anniversary) of the date that the Participant first participated.  
For purposes of computing years of service for vesting only, hours of service with a Contributing  
Employer for which the Employer is not obligated to contribute to this Trust shall be counted provided  
that such noncovered service ts contiguous with the Participant’s service for which contributions were  
required. Noncovered service shal! be considered as contiguous with covered service if there is no  
intervening quit, discharge or other termination. No benefits are accrued for contiguous noncovered  
service.  
Break-in-Service.  
A one year break in service occurs when, during any vesting computation period up to and including  
the vesting computation period that ended on June 30, 1992, a Participant has no hours of service, as  
defined in Section 1.19, For vesting computation periods beginning with the vesting computation  
period that begins on July 1, 1992, and thereafter, a one year break in service occurs when, during any  
such vesting computation period, a Participant or former Participant completes Jess than 400 hours of  
service, as defined in Section 1.19.  
A Participant who experiences a one year break in service after he has become vested within the  
meaning of Section 7.1, is entitled to have his pre-break service counted for vesting and benefit  
accrual purposes.  
— 15 —  
8.2  
A Participant who experiences a one year break in service prior to becoming vested and who  
subsequently becomes a Participant in the Plan shall be entitled to have his years of vesting service  
and his years of accredited service for purposes of benefit computation prior to that one year break in  
service counted unless the break in service is a “permanent break in service” within the meaning of  
the following Section 7.3B. Conversely, years of service prior to a “permanent break in service” will  
not be counted.  
A Permanent Break in Service occurs if a nonvested Participant experiences consecutive one year  
breaks in service which equal or exceed, the greater of:  
1. five years of service;  
2. the number of the Participant’s years of service before the break in service.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### Forms of Benefit Payments  
Definitions, The following definitions apply for purposes of this Article VII.  
The term “Annuity Starting Date” shall have the meaning set out in Section 1.24.  
A “Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity” for a Participant who ts married to his spouse on his Annuity  
Starting Date is a form of annuity which pays a lifetime monthly pension payment to the Participant  
and upon the Participant’s death, pays one-half of that amount in monthly payments to the  
“surviving spouse” for the life of the surviving spouse. The Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity fora  
married Participant wil] be the actuarial equivalent of the amount which the Participant would receive  
under the Normal Form of Benefits under this Plan. The monthly amount of the Participant’s pension  
is reduced in accordance with the actuarial assumptions used by the Plan and the ages of the  
Participant and his spouse.  
A “Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity” for a Participant who has not been married for one year  
immediately prior to his Annuity Starting Date is a life annuity. This annuity shall be the actuarial  
equivalent of the benefit which the Participant would have received under the Normal Form of  
Benefits under this Plan.  
The “surviving spouse” for purposes of this Article is the spouse to whom the Participant was lawfully  
married as of the Annuity Starting Datc. If the “surviving spouse’ predeceases the Participant. no  
survivorship annuity will be payable, even if the Participant remarries. The death of the surviving  
spouse prior to the Participant’s death will not affect the amount of the monthly payment to the  
Participant.  
c € enefits. Effective for any Participant whose Annuity Starting  
Date is July 1, 1976, or thereafter, benefits shall be paid in the form of a Qualified Joint and Survivor  
Annuity unless the Participant validly waives the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity in accordance  
with the provisions of Section 8.3.  
Wai ali ivor  
A participant who 1s otherwise required to receive his benefits in the form of a Qualified Joint and  
Survivor Annuity may waive said form of benefits by filing with the Fund Office a valid waiver during  
the election period. The election period is the ninety (90) day period prior to the Annuity Starting Date.  
Any valid election made during an election period prior to an Annuity Starting Date which is on or  
after the Participant’s Normal Retirement Age will govern all payments of benefits earned thereafter.  
Any election may be revoked at any time during the election period.  
In order to be valid, an election to waive the Qualified Jomt and Survivor Annuity must meet the  
following requirements:  
1. It must be in writing.  
2. It must be filed no less than thirty (30) days and no more than ninety (90) days after the  
Participant receives the Notice and Explanation described in Section 8.4. The Notice and  
Explanation is presumed to be received on the third day after the date it is mailed.  
— 16—  
8.4.  
A.  
3. In the case of a Participant who had one or more hours of service after August 23, 1984, the  
waiver must be consented to in writing by the Participant’s spouse (unless such consent is not  
required under subsection 8.3B4). Said consent must also acknowledge in writing the effect of  
the election. The consent and acknowledgement required by this subsection must be  
witnessed by a notary public or a plan representative.  
Effective for an election filed with regard to an Annuity Starting Date on or after July 1, 1987,  
the waiver and consent must name the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries, if any, who will  
receive survivorship benefits under the Plan and must name the form of benefits to be paid  
under the Plan, (subject to the paragraph). If a consent names a designated  
beneficiary and/or a specific form of benefits, then any subsequent change to said designated  
beneficiary and/or form of benefits is invalid unless a new consent is obtained from the spouse,  
which meets the requirements of this Section 8.3.  
If the consent does not name a specific beneficiary or beneficiaries or a specific form of  
benefits, or tf the Participant and spouse desire that future changes in the beneficiary and/or  
form of benefits may be made without spousal consent, the consent must acknowledge that  
the spouse has the right to limit consent to a specific beneficiary and a specific form of  
benefits and the consent must voluntarily waive whichever (or both) of said rights, in  
accordance with the desires of the Participant and his spouse.  
4. The consent described in this Section 8.3 is not required if it is established to the satisfaction  
of a plan representative that the consent otherwise required cannot be obtained because:  
a. there is no spouse;  
b. the spouse cannot be located; or  
c. such other circumstances exists as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury as  
sufficient to obviate the requirement of the spousal consent.  
   
Within a reasonable time prior to the Annuity Starting Date, the Plan must provide the Participant  
with a notice in writing explaining the terms of the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity and the  
right to waive that Annuity Form of Benefit,. This Notice will be provided within a reasonable  
period of time before the Participant’s Normal Retirement Age and a reasonable period of time  
before any Early Retirement Date or Postponed Retirement Date. A Participant may not elect an  
Annuity Starting Date at any time before the 31st day after he has received the Notice.  
The Notice and Explanation must contain a written explanation of the following:  
1. The terms and conditions of the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity;  
2. The Participant’s nght to make an election to waive the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity  
and the procedure for making the election;  
The effect of an election to waive the Qualified Joint and Survivor form of benefit:  
The rights of the Participant’s spouse, including the right to withhold consent; and  
The right to revoke an election to waive Qualtfied Joint and Suvivor Annuity and the effect of  
such revocation.  
iona Retirement Benefit  
In the event a Participant validly waives the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity, he may elect to  
receive his benefits in any of the following optional forms:  
1. Life Annuity with a 60 month guarantee (described in Section 5.2 of this Plan).  
—17—  
2. ALife Annuity with 120 month guarantee, which is the same form of payments as the life annuity  
with a 60 month guarantee as described in Section 5.2, but the number of guaranteed payments is  
120. This option may only be selected if the 120 monthly payments will not extend payments  
beyond the life expectancy of the Participant and his designated beneficiary.  
3. ALife Only Annuity which provides monthly benefit payments to the Participant for his lifetime  
with no further payments after the monthly payment for the month tn which the Participant dies.  
4. A Joint and Full Survivor Annuity which provides monthly benefit payments to the Partictpant  
throughout his lifetime and, upon his death, continues monthly payments in the same amount to  
the “surviving spouse”.  
5. A Joint and Two-Thirds Survivor Annuity, which provides monthly benefit payments to the  
Participant throughout his lifetime and, upon his death, continues monthly payments equal to  
66-2/3% of the amount that the Participant was receiving, to the “surviving spouse”.  
B. All optional forms of benefits (including the Qualified Joint and Suvivor Annuity) shall be adjusted  
so that the actuarial value of the benefit is the eqivalent of the Participant’s accrued benefit  
stated in the Normal Form of Benefit (Section 5.2). Under this Plan, actuarial equivalent means that  
whenever it is necessary to convert one form of annuity to another form of annuity or to a lump sum,  
the result will be benefits substantially equal in value as determined by application of the 1971 Male  
Group Annuity Mortality tables and a 6-1/2% interest rate.  
C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustees shall distribute the Participant’s benefits or the Beneficiary’s  
benefits in the form of a lump sum payment on or prior to the annuity starting datc if the present value  
of the benefits does not exceed $5,000. For purposes of determining the present value of an annuity as  
of the date of distribution, the Plan shall use the interest rate established by the Pension Benefit  
Guaranty Corporation as of the beginning of the Plan Year for valuing a lump sum distribution upon  
plan termination or individual termination. This section shall not apply after the Annuity Starting Date  
unless the Participant or Beneficiary consents in writing to a single lump sum distribution.  
### ARTICLE IX  
lication for and Timi Benefit Distributi  
9.1 Applications, A Participant or Beneficiary must apply in writing for any benefit payable under this Plan  
in a timely manner, in advance of the Annuity Starting Date. To be timely for this purpose, an application must be  
sufficient to give notice to the Trustees of the applicant’s request to commence receipt of benefits under this Plan.  
Every Participant, Beneficiary or Pensioner shall furnish, at the request of the Trustces, any information or proof  
reasonably required to determine his benefit rights. If a person makes a willfully false statement material to an  
application or furnishes fraudulent information or proof, benefits not vested under this Plan (as defined in Article  
VI) may be denied, suspended or discontinued as determined by the Trustees. The Trustees shall have the right to  
recover any benefit payment made in reliance on any false or fraudulent statement, information or proof submitted  
by a Participant, Beneficiary or Pensioner.  
9.2 Trustees. The Trustees shall, subject the requirements of the law, be the sole judges of the standard of  
proof required in any case and the application and interpretation of the Plan including decisions concerning the  
eligibility of a Participant or to participate or his entitlement to benefits, and decisions of the Trustees  
shall be final and binding on all parties. In the event an application for benefits ts denied in whole or in part, the  
Participant or Beneficiary must follow the Benefit Claim Procedure set forth in Article X. Wherever in the Plan the  
Trustees are given discretionary powers, the Trustees shall exercise such powers in a uniform and non-  
discriminatory manner.  
9.3 Timing of BenefitCommencement, Payment of benefits may begin sooner but shall begin no later than 60  
days after the last of the following dates, unless the Participant elects a later date (see Section 6.2):  
A. The end of the Plan Year in which the Participant attained Normal Retirement Age;  
B. The end of the Plan Year in which the Participant left covered service;  
— 18 —  
C. The Annuity Starting Date selected by the participant on an application for benefits filed with the  
Plan; or  
D. The date the Trustees were first able to ascertain entitlement to, or the amount of, the Participant’s  
Benefit.  
9.4 Limitations on the Timing of Benefit Distribution  
A. As set forth in Section 6.2, a Participant may elect to postpone his Annuity Starting Date to a date  
which is past his Normal Retirement date, provided:  
l.  
Effective January !, 1984, no Participant may postpone his Annuity Starting Date to a date later  
than April 1 of the calendar year following the later of the calendar year in which the Participant  
attains age 70-1/2 or the calendar year in which he ceases working in covered employment. If a  
Participant owns 5% or more of the stock of a Contributing Employer, the benefit must begin no  
later than April | of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant attains  
age 70-1/2.  
Effective May 1, 1989, benefit commencement may not be postponed later than April 1 of the  
calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age 70-1/2.  
The latest date on which benefit payments may commence as set out in paragraph 9.4A1 and 2 is  
called the “required beginning date.”  
B. Notwithstanding any provisions in the Plan to the contrary, benefit payment must meet the  
requirements of either of the following subsections:  
1,  
Pz  
Benefits shall be distributed in full prior to the “required beginning date”, set out in subsection  
9.4A, or  
a.  
Distribution to a Participant must begin no later than the required beginning date and must be  
made over the life of the Participant (or lives of the Participant and the Participant’s spouse),  
or over a period not exceeding the life expectancy of the Participant (or the life expectancies  
of the Participant and the Participant’s spouse). Distributions (as described in this subsection)  
may be made to a Participant and a nonspouse Beneficiary provided the period used to  
determine the “life expectancies” remains as that of the Participant and the Participant’s spouse.  
If distribution of benefits has begun in accordance with the provisions of subsection 9.4B2a,  
and if the Participant dies before his or her entire interest is distributed, the remaining portion  
of the Participant’s interest must be distributed at least as rapidly as under the distribution  
method being used as of the date of his death.  
If a Participant dies before the Distribution of the Participant’s interest has begun in  
accordance with subsection 9.4B2a, then the entire interest of the Employee must be  
distributed by December 31 of the fifth calendar year following the year of the Participant’s  
death, subject to the following:  
(1) The five-year payout of the requirement shall not apply if:  
(a) any portion of the Participant’s interest is payable to (or for the benefit of) a  
designated beneficiary;  
(b) such portion will be distributed (in accordance with over the life of  
such designated beneficiary (or over a period not extending beyond the life  
expectancy of such beneficiary); and  
(c) such distributions begin not later than one year after the Particiant’s death or such  
later date as may be prescribed by regulations.  
—19—  
(2) If the designated beneficiary referred to in paragraph 9.4B2c(1) is the surviving spouse of  
the Participant, then:  
(a) the date on which distributions are required to begin under 9.4B2c(i)(c) shall not be  
earlier than the date on which the Participant would have attained age 70-1/2; and  
(b) if the surviving spouse dies before the distribution to such spouse begins, this  
subparagraph shall be applied as if the surving spouse were the Participant.  
### ARTICLE X  
### Benefit Claims Procedure  
Any claim for benefits under the Plan shall be made in writing to the Plan Administrator of the Plan on forms  
which will be provided upon request to the Fund Office. The Plan Administrator shal] furnish the clasmant with a  
written notice of his decision within ninety (90) days after receipt of the claim, unless special circumstances require  
an extension of time for processing the claim. If such an extension of time for processing the claim is required,  
written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the expiration of the initial 90 day period.  
In no event shall such an extension exceed a period of 90 days after the expiration of the iniual 90 day period.  
In the event that the decision of the Plan Administrator is to wholly or partially deny a claim, the claimant shall be  
provided with a written decision which shall set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant the  
following:  
A. The specific reason or reasons for the denial;  
B. Specific reference to pertinent plan provisions on which the denial is based;  
C. Adescription of any addsitional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim  
and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and  
D. Appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the Participant or Beneficiary wishes to submit  
his or her claim for review.  
In the event a claim is wholly or partially denied, a claimant or his duly authorized representatives may appeal  
the claim to the Board of Trustees of the Plan by written application to the Board of Trustces filed within sixty (60)  
days after receipt by the claimant of written notification of denial of claim. Said application for revicw shall be  
available at the office of the Plan. The claimant shall have the right to have a duly authorized representative review  
pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing.  
The decision by the Board of Trustees shall be made no later than the date of the meeting of the Board which  
immediately follows the Plan’s receipt of request for review, unless the request for review is filed within 30 days  
preceding the date of such meeting. In such a case, a decision may be made by no later than the date of the second  
meeting following the Plan’s receipt of the request for review.  
If special circumstances require an extension of time for reviewing the decision of the Plan Administrator, the  
decision of the Board of Trustees shall be rendered no later than the third meeting of the Board following the Plan’s  
receipt of the request for review. If such an extension of time for review is required, written notice of the extension  
shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the commencement of the extension. The decision of the Board shall be in  
writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the  
claimant, as well as specific references to the pertinent plan provisions on which the decision is based.  
The benefit claims procedure provided herein is exclusive and no action shall be brought in any court or before  
any agency to recover any benefits or seek relief under the Plan prior to the exhaustion of the remedies set forth  
herein.  
### ARTICLE XI  
### 11.1 Maximum Limitation.  
A. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Plan, the annual retirement benefit to which a Participant  
shall be entitled hereunder when aggregated with the benefit under all other Defined Benefit Plans  
maintained by the Employers, shall not exceed the lesser of:  
— 20 —  
1. $90,000; or  
2. 100% of the Employee’s average annual compensation for the three highest consecutive calendar  
years during which he participated in the Plan or any other Plan maintained by the Employer.  
The $90,000 limit set forth in subparagraph (1) above shall be increased automatically to account for  
increases in the cost of living. Such cost of living adjustment shall be limited to scheduled increases in  
accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary of Treasury under Internal Revenue Code § 415(d)  
and shall be effective no sooner than January 1! of each year.  
For purposes of this section “compensation” shall mean the Employce’s earned income, wages,  
salaries and fees for professional services, and other amounts received for personal services actually  
rendered in the course of employment with the Employer maintaining the plan (including, but not  
limited to, paid to salesmen, percentage of profits, commissions on insurance premiums,  
tips and bonuses), and excluding the following:  
1. to a plan of deferred compensation which are not included in the Employee’s  
gross income for the taxable year in which contributed or Employer contributions under a  
simplified Employee pension plan to the extent such contributions are deductible by the  
Employee, or any distributions from a plan of deferred compensation.  
2. Amounts realized from the exercise of a non-qualifted stock option, or when restricted stock (or  
property) held by the Employer either becomes freely transferable or is no longer subject to a  
substantial risk of forfeiture.  
3. Amounts realized from the sale, exchange or other disposition of stock acquired under a qualified  
stock option plan.  
4, Other amounts which received special tax benefits, or contributions made by the Employer (whether  
or not under a salary reduction agreement) towards the purchase of an annuity described in  
Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (whether or not the amounts actually excludable  
from the gross income of the Employee).  
In the case of a Participant who has less than 10 years of accredited service for purposes of benefit  
accrual, the limitations sct forth in subsections BI and 2 of this section shall be multiplied by a  
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of the Participant’s such years of service and the  
denominator of which ts 10,  
The following additional rules apply for plan years beginning July 1, 1983 to July 1, 1986, inclusive:  
in the case of a Participant whose benefits hereunder commence prior to his attainment of age 62, the  
limitations set forth in subsection A1 of this section shail, in accordance with the regulations issued by  
the Secretary of Treasury, be adjusted so that it is the equivalent to such benefit beginning at age 62,  
provided that such an adjustment shall not reduce such limitation below:  
1. Ifthe benefit commences after the Employee attains age 55, $75,000, or  
2. If the benefit commences before the Employce attains age 55, the amount which the actuarial  
equivalent to the $75,000 limitation at age 55.  
In the case of an Employce whose benefits hereunder commence after he has attained the age of 65,  
the limitation set forth in subsection AI of this section shall, in accordance with regulations issued by  
the Secretary of Treasury, be adjusted so that it is the actuarial equivalent to the dollar limitation for a  
benefit commencing at age 65. For purposes of adjusting any benefit under this subsection, the interest  
rate assumption shail be 5%.  
Notwithstanding the limitations of subsection A of this section, if a Participant was covered by the Plan  
before the first day of the Limitation Year beginning in 1983, he may receive an annual retirement  
benefit which is not less than the amount of his current accrued benefit as of the close of the last  
Limitation Year beginning before 1983, as determined under the terms of the Plan as then in effect  
disregarding any amendments or cost of living adjustment after July 1, 1982. For the purposes of this  
Section, the term “Limitation Year” shal] mean the Plan Credit Year.  
— 21 —  
F. The following rules apply for Plan Years beginning July 1, 1987 and thereafter. In the case of a  
Participant whose Annuity Starting Date is prior to Social Security Retirement Age, the $90,000  
limitation contained in Section 11.1A1 shall be actuarially reduced so that it is the actuarial equivalent  
of an annual benefit of $90,000 commencing at the Social Security Retirement Age. In the case of a  
Participant whose Annuity Starting Date is after Social Security Retirement Age, the $90,000  
limitation contained in Section 11.1A1 shall be actuarially increased so that it is the actuarial equiva-  
Icnt of an annual benefit of $90,000 commencing at the Social Security Retirement Age.  
G. Ifa Participant covered by this Plan participates in both Defined Benefit and Defined Contributions  
Plans maintained by the Employer, the sum of } and 2 below may not exceed 1.0:  
1. The sum of the projected annua! benefit of the Employec under all Defined Benefit pension pians  
of the Employer determined as of the close of the Limitation Year, divided by the lesser of:  
a. The product of 1.25 multiplied by the dollar limitation in effect under Section 415(b)(1)(A)  
of the Internal Revenue Code for such year, or  
b. The product of 1.4 multiplied by the amount which may be taken into account under Section  
415(b)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to such Employce for such year.  
2. The sum of the annual additions to the Employee’s account under all defined contributions plans  
of the Employer as of the close of the Limitation Year and for all prior Calendar Years divided by  
the sum of the lesser of a or b for such year and for each prior year of service with the Employer  
(regardless of whether any such defined contribution plan was in existence during those years),  
where;  
a. Is the product of 1.25 multiplied by the dollar limitation tn effect under Section 415(c)(1)(A)  
of the Interna] Revenue Code for such year (without regard to Section 415(c)(6) of such  
Code); and  
b. Is the product of 1.4 multiplied by the same amount which may be taken into account under  
Section 415(c)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code (or Section 415(c)(7) of such Code, if  
applicable) with respect to such individual under such plan for such year; provided, however,  
that the Board of Trustees may elect that the amount taken into account for each Employee  
for all years ending before January |, 1983, under a and b above shall be determined pursuant  
to the special transition rule in such Section 415(e)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code.  
If this Plan is aggregated with another Plan that was in existence on July }, 1982, and the above  
limitations are not met, each Participant for whom the limits are violated will not receive any  
annual additions or accruals in this Plan. In the event that at the earlier to occur of each December  
31 or the date of an Employee retirement or termination, the sum of | and 2 above exceeds 1.0  
and the benefit of such Employee under such other Plan or Plans is not reduced to bring such  
sums to 1.0, then such Employee’s benefits under this Plan shall be reduced by an amount  
sufficient to cause the sum of | and 2 above for each Employee to equal 1.0.  
### ARTICLE XIl  
### Miscellaneous Provisions  
12.1 Military Service. Service in the armed forces of the United States shal], upon return to employment  
covered by this Plan, be credited for purposes of participation, benefit accrual and vesting to the extent required by  
law.  
121 § thrift Trus/Non Alienati of Bene  
A. No Participant shall, under this Trust, have any legal right, title, or interest in the Trust or any contract issued  
concerning his participation, and any such interest, beneficial or otherwise, shall be limited to  
that provided in this Trust and under any contract on such Participant.  
— 22 —  
To the extent permitted by law, and except as provided in paragraph (B), the Participant shall not be  
permitted to anticipate, encumber, alienate or assign any of his rights, claims or interest in this Trust or  
contract, or any part thereof, except upon the written authority of the Trustees, and such authority, if granted  
and it relates to a contract, shall have been filed with the issuing insurance company during the lifetime of  
the Participant and neither the contract nor any part thereof, nor any payments, benefits or rights arising by  
reason of this Trust, shal] be in any way subject to the Participant’s debts, contracts or engagements, nor to  
any judicial processes to levy upon or attach the same for payment thereof.  
B. All other provisions of this Section and this Plan notwithstanding, the Plan shall pay benefits in accordance  
with any domestic relations order which is determined to be a Qualified Domestic Relations Order within  
the meaning of Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Trustees shall adopt a written procedure  
for determining the qualified status of domestic relations orders and for administering distributions under  
such qualified orders.  
12.3. Non Reversionto Employer. expressly understood that in no event shall any of the corpus or assets  
of the Pension Trust Fund revert to the Employers or be subject to any claims of any kind or nature by the  
Employers.  
12.4 Fundsi tees’ Possessi Bene articipants and Beneficiaries. Any funds coming into the  
hands of the Trustees from any source whatsoever, less reasonable expenses of administering this Trust as may be  
determined from time to time by the Trustees, shall be used solely to provide the benefits enumerated for eligible  
Participants and Beneficiaries. The sources of these funds shall include contributions from Employers, interest and  
other carnings on investments, dividends from an insurance company, other credits that may be granted by the  
insurance company and other income from any source whatsoever.  
12.5 Limitation of Liability, The Pension Plan has been established on the basis of an actuarial calculation  
which has established, to the extent possible, that contributions will, if continued, be sufficient to maintain the Plan  
on a permanent basis, fulfilling the funding requirements of ERISA. Except for liabilities which may result from  
provisions of ERISA, or other applicable law, nothing in this Plan shall be construed to impose any obligation to  
contribute beyond the obligation of the Employer to make contributions as stipulated in its collective bargaining  
with the Union, and there shaii be no lability upon the Trustees individually, or collectively, or upon the Union to  
provide benefits established by this Pension Plan, if the Pension Fund does not have assets to make such payments.  
12.6 Liabili loyer/Liabulity of Participants. The liability of any individual employer to this Fund  
shall] in no event extend to the obligations of another participating employer or other participating employers.  
The individual Participants shall not be required to make any payments or contributions to the cost of the  
operation of the Fund or in connection with the administration of the Trust hereby established or otherwise. No  
individual Participant shall be liable or responsible for any debts, liabilities or obligations of the Trust or Trustees.  
12.7 Rollover Distributions.  
A. This section applies to distributions made on or after January 1, 1993. Notwithstanding any provision  
of the Plan to the contrary that would otherwise limit a distributee’s election under this section, a  
distributee may elect, at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator, to have any  
portion of an eligible rollover distribution paid directly to an eligibie retirement plan specified by the  
distributee in a direct rollover.  
B. Definitions.  
1. Eligible rollover distribution: An eligible rollover distribution is any distribution of all or any  
portion of the balance to the credit of the distributee, except that an eligible rollover distribution  
does not include: any distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments  
(not less frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the distributee or the  
joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee and the distributee’s designated  
beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten years or more; any distribution to the extent such  
distribution is required under section 401(a)(9) of the Code; and the portion of any distribution  
that is not includable in gross income (determined without regard to the exclusion for net  
unrealized appreciation with respect to employer securities).  
a 99 —  
2. Eligible retirement plan: An cligible retirement plan is an individual retirement account  
described in section 408(a) of the Code, an individual retirement annuity describes in section  
408(b) of the Code, an annuity plan described in section 403(a) of the Code, or a qualified trust  
described in section 401(a) of the Code, that accepts the distributee’s eligible rollover  
distribution. However, in the case of an eligible rollover distribution to the surviving spouse, an  
eligible retirement plan ts an individual retirement account or individual retirement annuity.  
Distributee: A distributee includes an employee or former employee. In addition, the employee’s  
or former employee’s surviving spouse and the employee’s or former employce’s spouse or former  
spouse who is the alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order, as defined in section  
414(p) of the Code, are distributees with regard to the interest of the spouse or former spouse.  
Direct roHover. A direct rollover is a payment by the Plan to the eligible retirement plan  
specified by the distnibutce.  
12.8 Top-Heavy Provisions.  
A. Definitions. For the purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning  
stated below unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context.  
l.  
Key Employee,  
“Key Employee” means any employee or former employee (and the beneficiary of such  
employee) meeting the definition of “Key Employce” contained in Section 416(i)(1) of the  
Internal Revenue Code and Section 1.416-1 of the Treasury Regulations.  
n- m e  
“Non-Key Employee” means any Employee who is not a Key Employee.  
u Imitation  
a. For Plan Credit Years beginning on or after July 1, 1994, the amount of a Participant’s  
Compensation (as defined ia subsection 11.1 B above) from any single employer that may be  
taken into account for any Plan purpose in any Plan Credit Year is $150,000, as that amount  
may be adjusted from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury under Section 401(a){17)  
of the Internal Revenue Codec.  
b. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, effective July 1, 1994, the accrued benefit  
of any Participant whose Compensation exceeded $150,000 in any Plan Credit Year  
beginning before August 1, 1994, shall be the greater of:  
the sum of  
(1) The Participant’s accrued benefit as of June 30, 1994, determined under Article V as  
though the Participant had terminated employment on that date and without regard to  
any Plan amendments adopted after that date (but taking into account remedial amend-  
ments that apply retroactively before that date under Section 401(b) of the Internal  
Revenue Code), plus  
(2) the amount of the Participant’s benefit accrued on or after July 1, 1994, under Article V,  
taking into account only years of service after June 30, 1994, and  
the Participant’s accrued benefit, determined under Article V, taking into account all Years of  
Service before and after July 1, 1994.  
terminati  
“Determination Date” means, with respect to any Plan Credit Year, the last day of the preceding  
Plan Credit Year, or in the case of the first Plan Credit Year of any Plan, the last day of such Plan  
Credit Year.  
— 24 —  
B. Top-Heavy Plan Requirements.  
Effective January 1, 1984, for any Top-Heavy Plan Credit Year, the Plan shall provide the following:  
1.  
This Plan shall be a Top-Heavy Plan for any Credit Year commencing after December 31, 1983,  
in which, as of the Determination Date,  
a. the present value of accrued benefits of Key Employees and  
b. the sum of the aggregate accounts of Key Employees under this Plan and all plans of an  
Aggregation Group exceeds sixty percent (60%) of the present value of accrued benefits and  
the aggregate accounts of al] Key Employees and Non-Key Employees under this Plan and  
all plans of an Aggregation Group.  
If any Participant is a Non-Key Employee for a Plan Credit Year, but such Participant was a Key  
Employee for any prior Plan Credit Year, such Participant’s present value of accrued benefits  
and/or aggregate account balance shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining  
whether this Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan (or whether any Aggregation Group which includes this  
Plan is a Top-Heavy Group). In addition, for Plan Credit Years beginning after December 31.  
1984, if a Participant or former Participant has not performed services for any Employer main-  
taining the Plan at any time during the five-year period ending on the Determination Date, the  
aggregate account and/or present value of accrued benefit for such Participant or former Partici-  
pant shall not be taken into account for the purposes of determining whether this Plan is a Top-  
Heavy Plan.  
A Participant’s aggregate account as of the Determination Date shall be determined under  
applicable provisions of the defined contribution plan used in determining Top-Heavy Plan  
Status.  
“Aggregation Group” means either a Required Aggregation Group or a Permissive Aggregation  
Group as hereinafter determined.  
a. Indetcrmining a Required Aggregration Group hereunder, each plan of an Employer in which  
a Key Employcc ts a Participant, and each other plan of an Employer which enables any plan  
in which a Key Employee participates to mect the requirements of Sections 401(a)(4) and  
410 of the Internal Revenue Code, will be required to be aggregated. Such group shall be  
known as a “Required Aggregation Group.”  
In the case of a required Aggregation Group, each plan in the group will be considered a  
Top-Heavy Plan if the Required Aggregation Group is a Top-Heavy Plan. No plan in the  
Required Aggregation Group ts a Top-Heavy Plan if the Required Aggregation Group  
1s not a Top-Heavy Plan.  
b. An Employer may also include any other plan not required to be included in the Required  
Aggregation Group, provided the resulting group, taken as a whole, would continue to  
satisfy the provisions of Section 401{a)(4) and 410 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such  
group shall be known as a “Permissive Aggregation Group.”  
In the case of a Permissive Aggregation Group, only a plan that is part of the Required  
Aggregation Group will be considered a Top-Heavy Plan if the Permissive Group  
is a Top-Heavy Plan. No plan in the Permissive Aggregation Group will be considered a  
Top-Heavy Plan if the Permissive Aggregation Group is not a Top-Heavy Plan.  
c. Only those plans of an Employer in which the Determination Dates fall within the same Plan  
Credit Ycar shall be aggregated in order to determine whether such plans are Top-Heavy  
Plans.  
In the case of a defined benefit plan, a Participant’s present value of accrued benefits shal! be  
determined:  
a. as of the most recent actuarial valuation date which is the most recent valuation date within  
a twelve-month period ending on the Determination Date;  
b. for the first Plan Credit Year, as if:  
—295—  
the Participant terminated service as of the Determination Datc; or  
the Participant terminated service as of the actuarial valuation date, but taking into account  
the estimated present value of accrued benefits as of the Determination Date.  
for any other Plan Credit Year, as if the Participant terminated service as of the actuarial  
valuation date,  
the actuarial valuation date must be the same date used for computing the defined benefit  
plan minimum funding costs, regardless of whether a valuation is performed in the Plan  
Credit Year.  
The calculation of a Participant’s present value of accrued benefit as of a Determination Date  
shall be the sum of the following:  
a.  
the present value of accrucd benefit using actuarial assumptions stated in the most recent  
actuarial valuation;  
any Plan distributions made within the Plan Credit Year that includes the Determination Date  
or within four preceding Plan Credit Years. However, in the case of distributions made after  
the valuation date and prior to the Determination Date, such distributions are not included as  
distributions for Top-Heavy purposes to the extent that such distributions are already  
included in the Participant’s present value of accrued benefit as of the valuation date.  
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all distributions, including distributions  
made prior to July |, 1984, and distributions under a terminated plan which if it had not been  
terminated would have been required to be included in an Aggregation Group, will be counted;  
any Employer contributions, whether voluntary or mandatory. However, amounts  
attributable to tay deductible Qualified Voluntary Employee Contributions shall not be  
considered to be a part of the Participant’s present value of accrued benefits;  
with respect to unrelated rollovers and plan-to-plan transfer (ones which are both initiated by  
the Employee and made from a plan maintained by one Employer to a plan maintained by  
another Employer), if this Plan provides for roflovers or pian-to-plan transfers, it shall  
always consider such rollovers or plan-to-plan transfers as a distribution for purposes of this  
section. If this Plan is the plan accepting such rollovers or plan-to-plan transfers, it shall not  
consider such rollovers or plan-to-plan transfers accepted after June 30, 1984, as part of the  
Participant’s present value of accrued benefits. However, rollovers or plan-to-plan transfers  
accepted prior to July |, 1984, shall be considered as part of the Participant’s present value of  
accrued benefits; and  
with respect to related rollovers and plan-to-plan transfers (ones either not initiated by the  
Employee or made to a plan maintained by the same Employer), if this Plan provides the  
rojlover or plan-to-plan transfers, it shall not be counted as a distribution for purposes of this  
section. If this Plan is the plan accepting such rollover or plan-to-plan transfer, it shall  
consider such rollover or plan-to-plan transfer as part of the Participant’s present value of  
accrued benefits, irrespective of the date on which such rollover or plan-to-plan transfer is  
accepted.  
“Top-Heavy Group” means an Aggregation Group in which, as of the Determination Date,  
the sum of:  
(1) the present value of accrued benefits of Key Employees under all defined benefit plans  
included in the group; and  
(2) the aggregate accounts of Key Employees under all defined contribution plans included  
in the group excceds sixty percent (60%) of a similar sum determined for all  
Participants.  
— 26 —  
g. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the effective date otherwise provided for  
herein for the application of Section 416 of the Internal Revenue Code to this Plan (Plan  
Credit Years beginning after December 31, 1983) shall be extended in accordance with any  
federal law or regulatory authority.  
C. Top-Heavy Vesting.  
1.  
Z.  
3.  
Notwithstanding the determination of Vested Status in accordance with Article VII of the Plan, for  
any Top-Heavy Plan Credit Year, the vested portion of any Participant’s accrued benefit shall be  
determined on the basis of the Participant’s number of Years of Vesting Service according to the  
following schedule:  
Service for Vesting  
(excluding Years of  
Service for Vesting  
prior to effective Vested  
date of this Pian) percentage  
| Year 0%  
2 years 0%  
3 years 100%  
If, in any subsequent Plan Credit Year, the Plan ceases to be a Top-Heavy Plan, the Trustees may  
elect to:  
a. continue to apply this vesting schedule in determining the vested portion of any Participant’s  
accrued benefit; or  
revert to the vesting schedule in effect before this Plan became a Top-Heavy Plan pursuant to  
Section 411(a}(10) of the Internal Revenue Code. The nonforfeitable percentage of the  
accrued benefit before the Plan ceased being Top-Heavy, therefore must not be reduced and  
any Participant with three or more Years of Vesting Service must be given the option of  
remaining under the Top-Heavy vesting schedule. Any such reversion shall be treated as a  
Plan amendment.  
The Top-Heavy vesting schedule does not apply to the accrued benefit of any Emptoyce who does  
not have one hour of work after the Plan has initially become a Top-Heavy Plan and such Employee’s  
accrued benefit attributable to Employer contributions will be determined without regard to this  
Article.  
D. Top-Heavy Benefit Requirement.  
1.  
The minimum accrued benefit derived from Employer contributions to be provided under this  
section for cach Non-Key Employee who is a Participant shall equal the product of:  
a.  
one-twelfth of Annual Compensation averaged over the five consecutive “limitation  
years” (or actual number of “limitation years” if less) which produces the highest average,  
and  
the lesser of  
(1) two percent (2%) multiplied by Years of Vesting Service; or  
(2) twenty percent (20%).  
2. For purposes of providing the minimum benefit under Section 416 of the Internal Revenue Code,  
a Non-Key Employee who is not a Participant solely because:  
a.  
b.  
his Annual Compensation is below a stated amount, or  
he declined to make mandatory contributions to the Plan  
will be considered to be a Participant.  
27 —  
3. For purpose of this section, Years of Vesting Service for any Plan Credit Year ending prior to July  
1, 1984, or for any Plan Credit Year during which the Plan was not a Top~Heavy Plan shall be  
disregarded.  
4. For purposes of this section, Annual Compensation for any “limitation year” ending prior to July  
1, 1984, or subsequent to the last “limitation year” during which the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan  
shall be disregarded. The term “limitation year” means the Plan Credit Year.  
5. Ifthe Plan provides for the normal retirement to be paid in a form other than a single life annuity,  
the accrued benefit under this section shali be the Actuartal Equivalence of the minimum accrued  
benefit under Article V.  
6. If payment of the minimum accrued benefit commences at a date other than Normal Retirement  
Age, the minimum accrued benefit shall be adjusted in accordance with Article VI of the Plan.  
7. If a Non-Key Employee participates in this Plan and a defined contribution plan included in a  
Required Aggregation Group which 1s Top-Heavy, the minimum benefits shall be provided under  
this Plan.  
8. To the extent required to be nonforfeitable under Article VII of the Plan, the minimum accrued  
benefit under this section may not be forfeited under Section 411(a)(3)(B) or 411(a)(3)(D) of the  
Internal Revenue Code.  
### ARTICLE XI  
Ri e  
The Trustees shall have the sole right to amend this Plan and Trust without the consent of any Participant, at any  
time from time to time as may be deemed advisable; provided, however, that no amendment to this Trust shall  
deprive any Participant of any accrued benefit or vested equitable interest herein, if any, nor shall such amendment  
be contrary to any Jaws in existence or enacted by the Federal or State Government directly concerning this Trust,  
provided that the Trustees may adopt an amendment.  
A. If it is necessary to establish or maintain the qualification of the Plam or the Trust Fund under the  
Interna] Revenue Code and to maintain compliance of the Plan with the requirements of ERISA; or  
B. If the amendment meets the requirements of Section 302(c)(8) of ERISA and Section 412(c)(8) of  
the Internal Revenue Code, and the Secretary of Labor has been notified of such amendment and has  
either approved of it or, within 90 days after the date on which notice was filed, has failed to  
disapprove.  
Ejther the Trustees representing the Union or the Trustees representing the Employers may propose amendments  
io this Trust. Such amendment will become effective when it has becn approved and executed by a majority of the  
Trustecs. All amendments adopted relevant to the continuing qualification of this Plan and Trust under the Internal  
Revenue Code shall be submitted to the United States Internal Revenue Service for its determination of the  
qualification of such amendment.  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### Termination  
A. Rightto Terminate, The Trustees shall have the right to discontinue or terminate this Plan in whole  
or in part. The rights of all affected Participants to benefits accrued to the date of the termination,  
partial termination, or discontinuance to the extent funded as of such date shail be nonforfeitable.  
B. foriti Hlocati In the event of termination, the assets then remaining in the Plan, after  
providing for any administrative expenses, shal! be allocated among the Pensioners, Beneficiaries,  
and Participants in the following order:  
— 28 —  
1.  
3  
4.  
First in the case of benefits payable as a pension:  
a. In the case of the pension of a Participant or Beneficiary which was in pay status as of the  
beginning of the three year pertod ending on the termination date of the Plan, to each  
pension, based on the provisions of the Plan (as in effect during the five year period ending —  
on such date) under which such pension would be the least. The lowest pension in pay status  
during the three year period shall be considered the pension in pay status for such period.  
b. In the case of a pension of a Participant or Beneficiary which would have been in pay status  
as of the beginning of such three year period if the Participant had retired prior to the  
beginning of the three year period if his pension had commenced (in the standard form) as of  
the beginning of such period, to each such pension based on the provisions of the Plan (as in  
effect during the five year period ending on such date) under which the pension would be the  
least.  
Second, to all other benefits (if any) of the individuals under the Plan guaranteed under Title IV of  
### ERISA.  
Third, to all other vested benefits under the Plan.  
Fourth, to afl other benefits under the Plan.  
C. Allocation Procedure, For purposes of subsection B hereof:  
I.  
The amount allocated under any paragraph of subsection B with respect to any benefit shall be  
properly adjusted for any allocation of assets with respect to that benefit under a prior paragraph  
of that subsection.  
If the assets available for allocation under any paragraph of subsection B (other than Paragraphs 3  
and 4) are insufficient to satisfy 1n full the benefits of all individuals which are described in that  
paragraph, the assets shall be allocated pro-rata among such individuals on the basis of the present  
value (as of termination date) of their respective benefits described in that paragraph. |  
This paragraph applies if the assets available for allocation under paragraph B3 are not sufficient  
to satisfy in full the benefits of individuals described tn that paragraph.  
a. If this paragraph applies, except as provided in subparagraph b below, the assets shall be  
allocated to the benefits of individuals described in paragraph B3 on the basis of the benefits  
of individuals which would have been described in such paragraph B3 under the Plan as in  
effect at the beginning of the five year period ending on the date of the Plan termination.  
b. If the assets available for allocation under subparagraph a above, are sufficient to satisfy in  
full the benefits described in such subparagraph (without regard to this subparagraph), then  
for purpose of subparagraph a, benefits of individuals described in such subparagraph shall  
be determined on the basis of the Plan as amended by the most recent amendment effective  
during such five year period under which the assets available for allocation are sufficient to  
satisfy in full the benefits of individuals described in subparagraph a and any assets  
remaining to be allocated under subparagraph a on the basis of the Plan as amended by the  
next succeeding Plan Amendment effective during such period.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### Merger or Consolidation  
The Trustees shall not merge or consolidate this Plan with any other Plan or transfer the assets or liabilities of  
this Plan to any other Pian, unless each Participant in the Plan would (if the Plan then terminated) receive a benefit  
immediately after the merger, consolidation, or transfer which is equal to or greater than the benefit said Participant  
would be entitled to receive immediately before the merger, consolidation or transfer (if the Plan had then  
terminated).  
— 29 —  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### Trustees  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: RICHARD BRYAN, JAMES KROUT, and ROBERT A. LUCKS  
have been selected by the Union and H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., PAUL MEYER, and DAN WIENSTROER have been  
selected by the Employers. The total number of Trustees designated by the Union and the total number of Trustees  
designated by the Employers shall at all times be equal, regardless of the number of Employers who may be  
contributing to the Fund. The term “Trustee” as used herein shall mean any natural person designated as a Trustee  
and selected by the Union or the Employer. The Board of Trustees shall be the plan sponsor, administrator and  
named fiduciaries of the Plan.  
Any Trustee may resign by giving thirty (30) days’ notice in the United States mail to the other Trustees and to the  
Board of his intent to so resign. The Union may discharge any of the Trustees appointed by it, by giving thirty (30)  
days’ notice in the United States mail of such intent to discharge. The Employers may discharge any of the Trustees  
appointed by them, by giving thirty (30) days’ notice in the United States mail of such intent to discharge. The  
removal of a Trustee shall be automatic at the end of a 30-day period of notification by either the Trustee or the  
Union or the Employers, as described above, of resignation or removal.  
In the event any of the Trustees selected by the Union shail die, be incapable of acting hereunder, resign or be  
removed, a successor Trustee shall immediately be appointed by the Union duly certified by the Board. In the event  
any of the Trustees sclected by the Employers shall die, become incapable of acting hereunder, resign or be  
removed, a successor Trustee shall immediately be appointed by the Employers duly certified by the Board. Failure  
of the Union or the Employers to select a successor Trustee promptly shall not prevent the remaining Trustees from  
carrying on the affairs of the Trust.  
For purposes of this Plan, the Trustees are authorized to perform any of the above functions and shall be the Plan  
Fiduciarics. As such, the Trustees shaJ] discharge their duties with respect to the Plan solcly in the interest of the  
participants and beneficiaries and for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to Participants and their  
beneficiaries and defraying reasonable expenses of administering the Plan with the care, skill, prudence and dili-  
gence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiar with such  
matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims; by diversifying the invest-  
ments of the Plan so as to minimize the risk of large losses unless under the circumstances it is clearly prudent not to  
do so, and in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the Plan (to the extent said documents and  
instruments are consistent with the law), The Fiduciaries may act in one or more fiduciary capacities with respect to  
the Plan and may allocate to others certain aspects of the management and operation responsibilities of the Plan  
including the employment of investment (and other) advisors and investment managers for all or part of the Plan  
assets and the delegation of any ministerial duties or functions to qualified individuals. The Fiduciaries shall be  
responsible for determining the Plan’s short and long-run financial needs from time to time and on the basis thereof  
shall establish a funding policy and method which will carry out the Plan’s objectives and nceds. The Trustees shall  
from time to time adopt appropriate resolutions defining such investment objectives.  
The Trustees are further authorized to appoint one from their number to serve as Managing Trustce and to  
dclegate to such Managing Trustee such authority and responsibility as they determine to delegate and which may  
lawfully be delegated.  
The Trustees shail further have the night to audit the books of a participating employer when such is deemed  
necessary or desirable for the effective administration of the Trust.  
The Trustees shall designate one Trustec as Chairman to serve for a term of one year commencing with the date  
of election and until a successor chairman is thereafter selected for the purpose of presiding at the meetings of the  
Trustees. The Chairman shall be alternately selected from the Trustees representing the Employers and the Trustees  
representing the Union.  
A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of the presence at the meeting of at least four (4) Trustees,  
two (2) of whom represent the Employers and two (2) of whom represent the Union. Decisions of the Trustees shall  
be made by majority vote. If an unequal number of Employer and Union Trustees attend a meeting, the voting power  
of the group with less Trustees present shall be and stand increased to that of the group with more Trustees present  
— 39 —  
so that there shall be equal voting strength between Employer and Union Trustees at all times at such meeting. A  
deadlock shall be deemed to exist whenever cither of the following situations arise: (1) whenever a proposal, nomi-  
nation motion or resolution or other matter is voted upon and the votes cast are evenly divided and remain evenly  
divided; and (2) whenever a quorum is lacking at a meeting duly called and there shall be absent from said meeting  
two (2) or more Trustees of one group, and a majority of the Trustees present declare a deadlock due to the inability  
to obtain a quorum. In the event of such deadlock in either case arising, the Employer Trustees and the Union  
Trustees shall meet promptly for the purpose of agrceing upon an impartial umpire to break such deadlock by  
casting the deciding vote or deciding any dispute in question or matter under consideration. In the event of the  
inability of the Employer Trustees and the Union Trustees to agree upon the selection of such impartial umpire, then  
such impartial umpire shal], on the petition of either the Employer Trustces or Union Trustees, be appointed by the  
Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the district wherein the principal office of the Trust is located.  
The decision of any such impartial umpire shall be final and binding on the Trustces and all concerned.  
Either the Chairman or the Managing Trustee or any two (2) Trustees may call a meeting of the Trustees at any  
time by giving at least five (5) days’ written notice of the time and place thereof to cach Trustee. Any meeting so  
called may be postponed once for a reasonable period upon the request of any Trustee upon showing of justifiable  
cause therefor. Any meeting of the Trustees may also be held at any time without notice if all of the Trustees consent  
thereto in writing or if al] attend and act. If all of the Trustees shall concur in writing upon any proposition, no formal  
meeting thereon need be held by Trustees. The Managing Trustee, in the written notice, shall notify the Trustecs of  
the subjects to be discussed but this shal! not be construed to limit any other subjects of discussion properly placed  
before the meeting.  
The Trustees and Fund Office personnel may receive reimbursement for expenses properly and actually incurred  
in the performance of their duties, including but not limited to expenses incurred in attending educational  
conferences, seminars and meetings, provided that the Trustees determine in each casc the subject matter of the  
conference, seminar or meeting is relevant to the administration of this Trust and that the expenses incurred are  
reasonable. The Trustees may adopt travel expenditure guidelines for such expenses. Reasonable compensation  
may be paid to the Trustees for services rendered in the performance of their duties as Trustees provided such  
payments are made in accordance with the Federal and State Jaws and regulations then in effect. governing Trusts.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### Trustees’ Powers and Duties  
The Trustees shall have general supervision of the operation of the Trust Fund and shal! conduct the business and  
aclivities of the same according to law and this Trust Agreement. The Trustees shall have the obligation to receive,  
hold and administer monies and other funds received by them from Employers (and from any Employer who may  
hereafter agrce to be bound by the terms and provisions of this instrument), or otherwise, in Trust under the terms  
hereof. In order to carry out and effectuate the purposes hereof, the Trustecs shall have the power and authority to  
adopt uniform rules and regulations as are consistent with and necessary for effectuating the provisions of this  
Agreement.  
The Trustees shall deposit all monies received by them in such bank or banks as they may designate for the  
purpose and may, in their sole and absolute discretion if they deem it advisable, invest and reinvest such funds as  
they do not require for current expenditure in such securities as are legal for the investment of pension trust funds  
under the laws of the United States and the State of Missouri.  
No party dealing with the Trustecs in relation to this Trust shall be obligated to see to the application of any  
money or property of the Trust Fund, or see that the terms of this Trust have been complied with or be obligated to  
inquire into the necessity or expedience of any act of the Trustees and every instrument executed by the Trustees  
shall be conclusive in favor of every person relying thereon, provided: (1) that at the time of the delivery of said  
instrument the Trust hereby created was in full force and effect; and (2) that said instrument was executed in  
accordance with the terms and conditions contained in this Trust Agreement.  
The payment of money to the Trustees shall effectually discharge the person or persons paying or transferring the  
same, and such person or persons shall not be bound to see to the application or be answerable for the joss or  
misapplication thereof.  
The Trustees shall have the authority to delegate duties amongst themselves and to others to the full extent  
permitted by law.  
The Trustees shall have the authority to reasonably request of any Employer, and an Employer when so  
reasonably requested, shal] furnish to the Trustees such information and reports as may be necessary in the  
performance of their duties under this Agreement and Declaration of Trust.  
The Trustees and ail their agents who handle funds of this Trust shall furnish such bond as may be required by  
law, and shall be responsible, further, for the proper execution and administration of the terms of the Trust.  
The Trustces shall: (a) prescribe procedures for appeals from the denial of any trust benefits, and serve as an  
appeals board for a full, fair and final review of any such denial; (6) retain a qualified public accountant and an  
enrolled actuary; (c) prepare annual registrations required with respect to rights of terminated employees with vested  
interests and with respect to trust mergers and terminations; (d} comply with requirements with respect to Plan  
descriptions and other reports to be provided to the Secretary of Labor and Participants; (e) submit annual reports  
and make proper notification of reportable events; (f) provide statements of accrued benefits at the request of the  
Participant; (g) pay Plan Termination Insurance Premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, and, when  
required, file Notice of Termination with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; (h) maintain the funding  
standard account for the purposes of the Plan required by the Employee Retirement Income Secunity Act of 1974, or  
as thereafter amended; (i) designate the Managing Trustee as the agent for service of process in any legal action  
initiated under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or as thercafter amended; adopt a cost  
method, actuarial assumptions, basis for evaluation of assets, and a funding method and policy for purposes of  
actuarial cost calculations under the Plan, in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of  
1974, or as thereafter amended; (k) authorize the enrolled actuary to study the actual experience under the Plan in  
comparison to actuarial assumptions and to make actuarial caiculations to determine whether anticipated benefits  
may reasonably be provided by anticipated contributions and existing assets of the Plan at least once every three  
years; (1) have the authority to take further actions, retain or employ such additional personnel (including but not  
limited to an Investment Manager within the meaning of ERISA) and expend Trust assets as they deem necessary in  
the administration and operation of the Trust and in the vested interests of the Participants.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### Governmental! Approval  
It is the intent that the provisions of this Trust and Agreement conform with all Federal and State laws, including  
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and all applicable regulations thereunder. It is specifically  
intended that this Agreement be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service for its approval as conforming with all  
Internal Revenue Service regulations regarding qualified pension plans, and if any of the provisions are in conflict  
with any laws or regulations referred to herein, said provisions will be amended to conform with any laws or rulings.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### Effective Date  
This Restated Plan shall be effective July 1, 1998, unless otherwise specifically provided.  
### UNION TRUSTEES EMPLOYER TRUSTEES  
### RICHARD BRYAN 4/15/99 PAUL MEYER  
### JAMES KROUT H. FRED PHILIPP, JR.  
### ROBERT LUCKS DAN WIENSTROER  
— 32 —  
### AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust hereby amend the Trust and  
Plan Agreement by adding the following new Subsection E to the end of Section 5.3:  
E. Effective April 1, 1999, each individual who is receiving monthly benefits from this  
Plan, including surviving spouses, shall receive a one-time only payment of $500.00.  
This supplemental payment is applicable to participants (and the surviving spouses  
thereof) who have an annuity starting date on or before April 1, 1999.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 4/15/99 DAN WIENSTROER 4/15/99  
JAMES KROUT 4/15/99 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. 7/22/99  
### ROBERT LUCKS 4/15/99 PAUL MEYER 4/15/99  
== 33 —  
### AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Patnters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust hereby adopt the following  
Amendment No. 2 to the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement, which said  
document is a Restatement of the Plan effective July 1, 1999.  
1. Subsection 5.3.C.3. is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following is substituted  
therefore:  
3. The tables marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3” do not apply to Participants, who are  
employed by contributing employers who are signatory to agreements with Sign and  
Pictorial Painters Local Union 774. The accredited future service benefits accrued by  
Participants who are employed by contributing employers signatory to agreements with  
Local 774 shall be the sum of the following two amounts:  
a. For years of service prior to July 1, 1999, the accredited future service for any  
future service benefit accrual year shall be the amount set out in the last most  
recently effective table which is not marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3”. The  
accrued benefit for such a Participant for the years of service prior to July t, 1999,  
shall be the total of all amounts accrued under the applicable tables which are not  
marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3,” adjusted by Subsection 5.3C1, if applicable.  
b. For years of service on or after July 1, 1999, the accredited future service benefit  
shall be determined under the following table:  
Total Hours of  
Service in the Future  
lan Year Service Credits  
400 to 600 hours $ 12.05  
601 to 800 hours 17.40  
801 to 1000 hours 22.75  
100 to 1200 hours 28.15  
1201 to 1400 hours 33.50  
1401 to 1600 hours 38.90  
1601 to 1800 hours 44.30  
1801 to 2000 hours 49.60  
2001 to 2200 hours 55.05  
2201 to 2400 hours 60.40  
2401 and over 60.40  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE MANAGEMENT TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 7/22/99 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. 7/22/99  
### JAMES KROUT 7/22/99 PAUL MEYER 8/5/99  
### ROBERT LUCKS 8/5/99 DAN WIENSTROER 7/22/99  
— 34 —  
### AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO THE  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST-AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust hereby adopt the following  
Amendment No. 3 to the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement, which said  
document is a Restatement of the Plan effective July 1, 1998:  
1. Subsection 6.6C. is hereby amended by adding a Subsection 6.6C.6 to read as follows:  
6. Notwithstanding the above, for any Participant whose death occurs on or after July 1,  
1999, the basic computation for the Qualified Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity shall be  
performed in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 6.6C.2., except that for this  
computation, 6.6C.2.c., shall read:  
“c. Retired on that date with a Qualified Jomt and 75% Survivor Annuity, and”  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE MANAGEMENT TRUSTEES DATE  
RICHARD BRYAN 11/21/99 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. 10/21/99  
### RICHARD BROEKER 10/21/99 PAUL MEYER 10/21/99  
### ROBERT A. LUCKS 10/21/99 DAN WIENSTROER 10/21/99  
### AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO THE  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust hereby adopt the following  
Amendment No. 4 to the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement, which said  
document is a Restatement of the Plan effective July 1, 1998.  
1. The introductory paragraph is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:  
THIS AGREEMENT, first made and entered into as of the first day of July, 1964, by  
### and between ST. LOUIS PAINTERS AND DECORATORS JOINT TRADE BOARD,  
INC., a Missouri pro forma decree corporation, hereinafter referred to as the BOARD,  
and any other employers, hereinafter referred EMPLOYERS, who adhere to the  
area practice and who have a contract with Painters District Council No. 2,  
hereinafter referred to as the UNION, and certain named individuals, as initial  
trustees, whose successors currently are RICHARD BRYAN, RICHARD BROEKER,  
### ROBERT A. LUCKS, PAUL MEYER, H. FRED PHILIPP, JR., and DAN  
### WIENSTROER.  
2. The first sentence of the first paragraph of Article XVI is hereby deleted and replaced with  
the following:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: RICHARD BRYAN, RICHARD  
BROEKER, and ROBERT A. LUCKS have been selected by the Union and H. FRED  
PHILIPP, JR., PAUL MEYER, and DAN WIENSTROER have been selected by the  
Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
RICHARD BRYAN 11/21/99 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. 10/21/99  
### RICHARD BROEKER 10/21/99 PAUL MEYER 10/21/99  
### ROBERT A. LUCKS 10/21/99 DAN WIENSTROER 10/21/99  
### AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO THE  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
(As Amended and Restated Effective July 1, 1998)  
The undersigned, Richard Bryan and Dan Wienstroer, Chairman and Managing Trustee of the Painters  
District Council No. 2 Pension Trust, respectively, hereby adopt on behalf of such Trust, pursuant to a  
resoution adopted by the Board of Trustees of such Trust on May, 2000, the following Amendment No. 5  
to the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement (as amended and restated  
effective July 1, 1998) effective July 1, 2000. This Amendment is to be submitted to the Internal Revenue  
Service for approval and adoption of said Amendment and is contingent upon satd approval.  
1. Section 6.3 is amended by deleting the second full paragraph of Subsection 6.3E and adding  
the following new Subsection 6.3F:  
F. A Participant shall be credited with additional accredited future service benefits for  
service after his Early Retirement Annuity Starting Date. However, any such additional  
accredited benefits for a Plan Year shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the  
Subsidized Portion of any early retirement benefits paid to the Participant subsequent to  
his Early Retirement Date for such Plan Year. “Subsidized Portion” means the difference  
between the amount of a Participant’s Early Retirement Benefit which is actually paid to  
him and the amount which would have been paid to him if the reduction under  
Subsection 6.3E applied to the early retirement benefit. Notwithstanding the reduction  
set forth in the previous sentence, a Participant who completed 1,200 or more Hours of  
Service in any Plan Year after his Early Retirement Annuity Starting Date, commencing  
with the Plan Year beginning July 1, 2000, shall accrue at least the benefits provided in  
the table set forth in Section 6.1. The Annuity Starting Date for accredited future service  
benefits earned after a Participant’s Early Retirement Date shall be his Normal  
Retirement Date, or his Postponed Retirement Date if he retires after his Normal  
Retirement Date.  
### RICHARD BRYAN, CHAIRMAN DAN WIENSTROER, MANAGING  
### TRUSTEE  
Date: June 16, 2000 Date: June 16, 2000  
— 37 —  
### AMENDMENT NO. 6 TO THE  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust hereby adopt the following  
Amendment No. 6 to the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement, which said  
document is a Restatement of the Plan effective July 1, 1999.  
1. Subsection 5.3.C.3 is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following is substituted  
therefor:  
3. The tables marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3” do not apply to Participants, who are  
employed by contributing employers who are signatory to agreements with Sign and  
Pictorial Painters Local Union 774. The accredited future service benefits accrued by  
Participants who are employed by contributing employers signatory to agreements with  
Local 774 shall be the sum of the following two amounts:  
a. For years of service prior to July 1, 1999, the accredited future service for any  
future service benefit accrual year shall be the amount set out in the last most  
recently effective table which is not marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3”. The  
accrued benefit for such a Participant for the years of service prior to July 1, 1999,  
shall be the total of all amounts accrued under the applicable tables which are not  
marked “Subject to Subsection 5.3C3,” adjusted by Subsection 5.3C1, if applicable.  
b. For years of service on or after July t, 1999 through June 30, 2000, the accredited  
future service benefit shaJl be determined under the following table:  
Total Hours of  
Service in the Future  
Plan Year Service Credits  
400 to 600 hours $ 12.05  
601 to 800 hours 17.40  
801 to 1000 hours 22.75  
1001 to 1200 hours 28.15  
1201 to 1400 hours 33.50  
1401 to 1600 hours 38.90  
1601 to 1800 hours 44.30  
1801 to 2000 hours 49.60  
2001 to 2200 hours 55.05  
2201 to 2400 hours 60.40  
2401 and over 60.40  
— 38 —  
c. For years of service on and after July 1, 2000, the accredited future service benefit  
shall be determined under the following table:  
Total Hours of  
Service in the Future  
Pla r Service Credits  
400 to 600 hours $ 13.15  
601 to 800 hours 18.95  
801 to 1000 hours 24,75  
1001 to 1200 hours 30.55  
1201 to 1400 hours 36.35  
1401 to 1600 hours 42.20  
1601 to 1800 hours 48.05  
1801 to 2000 hours 53.80  
2001 to 2200 hours 59.65  
2201 to 2400 hours 65.45  
2401 and over 65.45  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE MANAGEMENT TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 7/20/00 H. FRED PHILIPP, JR. 7/20/00  
### RICHARD BROEKER 7/20/00 PAUL MEYER 7/20/00  
### ROBERT A. LUCKS 7/20/00 DAN WIENSTROER 7/20/00  
— 39 —  
### AMENDMENT NO. 7 TO THE  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### PENSION TRUST AND PLAN AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust hereby adopt the following  
Amendment No. 7 to the Painters District Council No. 2 Pension Trust and Plan Agreement, which said  
document is a Restatement of the Plan effective January |, 2001:  
1. The third paragraph of Article IV is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following is  
substituted therefor:  
The contributions as established from time to time by the collective bargaining  
agreement shall be due on the date set out in the collective bargaining agreement. If  
the payment of contributions is delinquent, the Employer shall be assessed  
liquidated damages of 10% up to 30 days of delinquency. Thereafter, liquidated  
damages of 1'/2% shall be assessed, compounded monthly until the full contribution  
is made.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 2/27/01 H. FRED PHILLIPP, JR. 2/27/01  
### RICHARD BROEKER 2/27/01 PAUL MEYER 2/27/01  
### ROBERT A. LUCKS 2/27/01 DAN WIENSTROER 2/27/01  
— 40 —  
### ARTICLE I  
### ARTICLE if  
### ARTICLE fi  
### ARTICLE IV  
### ARTICLE V  
### ARTICLE VI  
### ARTICLE Vil  
### ARTICLE VI  
### ARTICLE IX  
### ARTICLE X  
### ARTICLE XI  
### ARTICLE XII  
### ARTICLE XIII  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### ARTICLE XV  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN  
### AND  
### TRUST AGREEMENT  
(Restated Effective July 1, 1988)  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### NAME 2  
### OBJECTIVE 2  
### DEFINITIONS 3  
### EMPLOYER PARTICIPATION 3  
### ELIGIBILITY 3  
### BENEFITS TO BE PROVIDED 3  
### EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS 4  
### NO REVERSION TO EMPLOYER 5  
### FISCAL YEAR AND PAYMENT OF BENEFITS 5  
### PAYMENT TO BENEFICIARIES  
### OF DECEASED EMPLOYEES 5  
### FUNDS IN TRUSTEES’ POSSESSION 6  
### RIGHT TO AMEND 6  
### TERMINATION 6  
### TRUSTEES 7  
### TRUSTEES’ POWERS AND DUTIES 8  
### RESPONSIBILITY AND IDENTIFICATION 10  
### VESTING OF RIGHTS 10  
### BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURE. EO  
### LIABILITY OF EMPLOYER if  
### AMENDMENTS 12  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
(Restated Effective July 1, 1988)  
This Agreement, first made and entered into on July 13, 1966 to be effective as of the first day of September, 1966,  
by and between the Painters District Council No. 2 and the Painters Employers of St. Louis, Missouri and vicinity,  
who adhere to the area practice and who have a contract with the Painters District Council No. 2, and certain named  
individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES KROUT and JAMES  
### SMITH (employee trustees) and WALTER BAZAN, SR., RICHARD SUNDERMEYER and DONALD HERBSTER  
(employer trustees), hereinafter referred to collectively as TRUSTEES, and  
WHEREAS, Painter District Council No. 2, a labor organization, has entered into collective bargaining  
agreements with certain Employers, which provide, among other things, for the payment of contributions to the  
Painters District Council] No. 2 Vacation Trust, for the benefit of Participants and Beneficiaries thereof, and  
_ WHEREAS, to effectuate the aforesaid purposes, it is desired to continue and maintain a Trust Fund which will  
conform to the applicable requirements of the Labor Management Relations: Act of 1947, as amended, and will  
continue to qualify as an “exempt trust”, pursuant to the United States Internal Revenue Code and the rules and  
regulations issued thereunder, and will conform with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and  
WHEREAS, to further effectuate the aforesaid purposes, it is desired to continue and maintain a Vacation Plan,  
pursuant to the Trustees’ authority contained in Article II, Section 7 of the original Trust Agreement to adopt rules  
and regulations, which Plan will conform to the applicable requirements of the Labor Management Relations Act of  
1947, as amended, and will continue to qualify as a plan maintained pursuant to and as part of an “exempt trust”  
pursuant to the United States Internal Revenue Code and the rules and regulations issued thereunder, and will conform  
with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and  
WHEREAS, this Vacation Trust Agreement has been amended from time to time in accordance with Article XII  
### entitled RIGHT TO AMEND, and  
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties thereto to amend and restate in its entirety said Vacation Trust Agreement  
as heretofore amended and said Vacation Plan, maintained pursuant to and as a part of the Vacation Trust.  
_ NOW, THEREFORE, said Vacation Trust Agreement as amended and said Vacation Plan are hereby continued  
and restated as of July 1, 1988 for the benefit of such persons as are now or shall hereafter become entitled to the benefits  
of this Trust pursuant to the terms hereof, as follows to wit:  
### ARTICLE I  
### NAME  
This Trust is to be known and designated as “Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Plan and Trust.”  
The Trust is accepted in the State of Missouri and all questions pertaining to its validity, construction and  
administration shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the United States and the State of Missouri.  
### ARTICLE I  
### OBJECTIVE  
This Trust is designed to provide Vacation benefits for Participants and their beneficiaries who are cligible to  
receive such benefits as defined in this Agreement, and any rules and regulations issued hereunder.  
### ARTICLE III  
### DEFINITIONS  
The term “Participant” as used herein shall be any member, apprentice or employee of Painters District Council  
No. 2, or of Painters’ Local Union Numbers 46, 115, 137, 1199, 2341 and 1156 or any employee of UNITY HALL  
ASSOCIATION, or any employee of the TRUSTEES of PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2 welfare plan,  
pension plan, vacation fund, or any person employed and working in a unit for which the Union is the bargaining  
representative, and whose Employer has agreed in a current, existing written collective bargaining agreement to pay  
for the benefits made available by the Trustees, provided said Participant meets al! of the eligibility requirements  
enumerated herein.  
The term “Beneficiary” as used herein shall mean the person or persons entitled to payment of vacation benefits  
in the event of death of the participant, as provided hereinbelow in Article X.  
The term “Union” shall mean Painters’ Local Unions Numbered 46, 115, 137, 1199, 2341 and 1156 which are  
under the jurisdiction of Painters District Council No. 2, or the Painters’ District Council No. 2 itself.  
The term “Employer” shall mean any employer who has agreed in existing written collective bargaining  
agreement to make contributions to this fund on behalf of its employees who are or may become participants hereof  
for the purpose of providing and maintaining vacation benefits for its said employees; provided, however, that the  
Union and/or the pension, health and welfare and/or vacation trust funds maintained by Painters’ District Council No.  
2 may also be included within the scope of the term “Employer”, as used herein, with regard to their respective  
employees for whom the contributions are made by it to the Trust Fund. In such event, the Union’s and/or the particular  
fund’s or funds’ status as an Employer shall be solely for the purpose of making the required contributions to the Trust  
Fund, and neither the Union nor any fund shall participate in the selection of any Employer Trustee.  
The term “Trustees” as used herein, shall mean the Trustees as designated by the Parties hereto, together with their  
Successors.  
The term “Fund” as used herein, shall mean the Painters’ Vacation Fund, District Council No. 2, which shall consist  
of all contributions received, together with income therefrom and any other property received or receivable and held  
by the Trustees for the uses, purposes and Trusts set forth in this Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### EMPLOYER PARTICIPATION  
When an Employer of one or more eligible Participants signifies his agreement to the Trustees tn writing to pay  
for the benefits as specified herein, then the Trustees shall take the necessary steps to provide all eligible Participants  
of such Employer with the benefits.  
### ARTICLE V  
### ELIGIBILITY  
A Participant shall be eligible to participate herein immediately upon commencement of employment with an  
Employer who is party to a current, existing agreement in writing to make contributions to this Trust as defined  
hereinabove in Article III on that employee’s behalf.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### BENEFITS TO BE PROVIDED  
The trustees shall provide vacation benefits, as stated hereinbelow, in Article VII.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS  
Each contributing Employer who agrees in writing to contribute for the purpose of providing vacation benefits and  
executes an agreement subscribing to and being bound by the terms of this agreement, shall contribute the money per  
hour as shafl be negotiated from time to time by Employers and the Union on behalf of Participants who shall be  
employed by contributing Employers as evidenced by Agreements from time to time between contributing Employers  
and the Union. Contributions shall be made for cach hour worked by an eligible employee in his employment with  
Employer.  
Such Employer payments to the Vacation Fund shal! be made after the Employer first withholds from the  
employee’s takehome pay all monies required by law to be withheld from wages, considering the payments to the  
Vacation Fund as part of the Employee’s wages.  
Employer payments to the Vacation Fund shall be made weekly, not later than Friday of the week following the  
Employer’s pay period. Such payments shall be made at or transmitted to the office of the Vacation Fund. At the time  
of making such weekly payment each such Employer shall also furnish and deliver to the Trustees of the Vacation  
Fund, in writing, on a form provided for such purposes by the Trustees, a list showing all employees who are employed  
by such Employer, and, with respect to those employces for whose hours of work such Employer owes contributions  
as aforesaid to the Vacation Fund. Such list shall also disclose the number of hours each such employee has worked  
during the weekly period for which contributions are being made.  
The liability of the Trustees to pay vacation benefits to eligible employees shall be limited to the amount of hours  
worked each week as reported by the Employers of such employees. The Trustees shall be authorized to accept as true,  
bona fide and accurate the number of hours worked each week by such employees. It shall be the duty and obligation  
ofeach employee eligible to receive benefits from the Vacation Fund to check and examine at the office of the Vacation  
Fund the reports, lists and payments made by his respective Employers on account of the number of hours such  
employee has worked, in order to determine the accuracy and truthfulness thereof, and to report any mistakes, errors  
or false reportings of the number of hours he has worked for such Employers during the periods covered by such  
Employers’ reports and lists. Such employee, in the event his records do not coincide with the reports and listings of  
his Employer(s) shall immediately furnish the Trustees of the Vacation Fund with evidence of the actual number of  
hours he has worked for such Employer(s) during the period involved. If any eligible employee shall fail to comply  
with the provisions of this Section, the amount of his earned vacation benefits shall be limited to the number of hours  
worked as reported by his Employer(s).  
Employees eligible to receive Vacation Fund benefits, or their beneficiaries, shall not be entitled to receive nor  
shall they acquire or have any right, title or interest in or to any interest or dividends which may be received and credited  
to their accounts by any bank, savings and loan association or other depository of the monies belonging to the Vacation  
Fund. Such employees and their beneficiaries shall be entitled only to the amount of contributions paid into the  
Vacation Fund by their respective Employers.  
Employer contributions and the income earned thereon shall be held, deposited and invested for the sole and  
exclusive benefit of those entitled to the benefits of this Trust and to pay benefits provided hereunder and the  
reasonable administrative and operating expenses of this Trust. If the Trustees in their sole and exclusive discretion  
determine that the assets of the Trust exceed the amount necessary to pay benefits to all eligible employees and al!  
administrative and operating expenses, then the Trustees in their sole and exclusive discretion may pay to the  
participants the amount or a percentage of the amount of contributions which were obligated to be made on their behalf  
by contributing employers but which were not remitted. The Trustees shall establish the terms and conditions of any  
such payment to the employees of delinquent employers and shall be the sole judges of the sufficiency of the evidence  
of a particular employee’s entitlement to participate in such a payment. An employee who receives a payment as  
described above shall receive no further benefits for hours worked during the Plan year unless and amounts  
actually contributed on his behalf for that Plan year exceed the amount of the payment.  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### . NO REVERSION TO EMPLOYER  
No part of the corpus or income of this Plan and Trust shall be (within the taxable year or thereafter) used for, or  
diverted to, purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of the Participants or their beneficiaries, and no contributing  
Employers shall be entitled to receive back any part of their contributions to this Trust.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### FISCAL YEAR AND PAYMENT OF BENEFITS  
The fiscal year of the Plan and Trust shall be July { through June 30.  
On December 15 (or the first regular workday thereafter if December 15 is not a regular workday), the Trustees  
shall pay to each participant the sum of money which has been credited to his account forthe year ending on the October  
31 prior to that December 15. No partial withdrawals will be permitted at any time. However, the Trustees may provide  
for early payment of benefits in the event the participant becomes permanently and totally disabled.  
Prior to December 15, the Fund Office shall notify the Participant of the amount payable to him. The Participant  
shall also be provided with a card. This card is to be signed and returned to the Fund Office and shall constitute the  
Participant's request for payment. No payment will be made to a Participant until the signed card has been received  
by the Fund Office. Payment shall be deemed delivered when deposited by the Trustees in the United States Mail, First  
Class Mail Postage Prepaid, and addressed to the requesting participant (or beneficiary, if applicable) at the address  
given by such participant or beneficiary on the form described hereinabove.  
In the event payment is not received by the participant or beneficiary on the date due, the participant or beneficiary  
may then file a Claim for Benefits described in Article XVIII hereof. In the event a participant or beneficiary fails to  
make a claim for benefits under this Trust within three years of the date on which benefits first become payable, the  
participant or beneficiary shall forfeit all rights to receive those benefits.  
### ARTICLE X  
### PAYMENT TO BENEFICIARIES OF DECEASED EMPLOYEES  
In the event of the death of any eligible employee, the Trustees shal], immediately upon being notified of such  
death, demand from the Employer(s) of such employee payment of all then unpaid Vacation Fund contributions earned  
by and due to such employee’s Vacation Benefit Account, and such Employer(s) shall immediately, upon receipt of  
such demand, pay such unpaid contribution to the Trustees.  
Entitlement to Vacation Benefits in the event of the death of the participant shall be determined as follows: first,  
to the same beneficiary designated by such employee and which designation is on file in the records of the Painters’  
District Council No. 2 Welfare Plan, if any; and if no designation of beneficiary is contained in such file, then second,  
to the spouse of such employee; if living; and if such spouse has predeceased such employee, then third, to the child  
or children of such employee, in equal shares; and if there is no child of such employee living, then fourth to the legal  
representatives of such decreased employee.  
The person or persons entitled to receive such vacation benefits remaining unpaid to the employee at the time of  
such employee's death, shall, as soon as reasonably possible after such death, make a written demand for the payment  
of the same on a form provided for that purpose by the Trustees (which such forms shail be available at the office of  
the Vacation Fund), and shall accompany the same with a certified or photostatic copy of the death certificate of such  
employee. After the expiration of seven (7) days following receipt of such form and death certificate at the office of  
the Vacation Fund, the Trustees shal! pay such remaining vacation benefits to the person or persons entitled thereto  
in accordance with the above and foregoing priority schedule. Any person or persons entitled to the payment of the  
vacation benefits credited to or earned by aneligible employee up to the time of his death shall be entitled immediately  
after such death to payment thereof by the Trustees, and shall not be required to wait until the 15th of December  
following such death before making such demand for payment or receiving the payment thereof. It is the intent and  
purpose of the next preceding sentence to provide, in cases of deaths of eligible employees, for as early closing of his  
Vacation Benefit Account as is reasonably possible.  
In the event payment is not received by the beneficiary on the date due, the beneficiary may then file a claim for  
Benefits described in Article hereof.  
### ARTICLE XI  
### FUNDS IN TRUSTEES’ POSSESSION  
The Trustees shall have general supervision of the operation of the Trust Fund and shall conduct the business and  
activities of the Trust Fund according to this Plan and Trust Agreement.  
Any funds coming into the hands of the Trustees from any source whatsoever not payable to a Participant, less  
reasonable expenses of administering this Trust as may be determined from time to time by the Trustees, shall be used  
solely to provide the benefits enumerated herein for eligible Participants. The sources of these funds shall include  
contributions from Employers, interest earnings on investments, dividends from an insurance company, other credits  
_ that may be granted by the insurance company and income from any source whatsoever. Any excess monies in the  
Trust may be invested in a form and type of investment that shall be agreed to by the Trustees keeping in mind at all  
times that safety of principal shall be the first consideration.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### RIGHT TO AMEND  
The Trustees shall have the sole right to amend this Plan and Trust without the consent of any Participant, at any  
time and from time to time as may be deemed advisable; provided, however, that no amendment to this Plan and Trust  
shall deprive any Participant of any vested equitable interest herein, if any, nor shall such amendment be contrary to  
any laws in existence or enacted by the Federal or State Government directly concerning this Plan or Trust.  
Either a Trustee representing the Union ora Trustee representing the Employers may propose amendments to this  
Trust. Such amendment will become effective when it has been approved and executed by a majority of the Trustees.  
All amendments adopted relevant to the continuing qualification of this Plan and Trust under the Internal Revenue  
Code shall be submitted to the United States Internal Revenue Service for its determination of the qualification of such  
amendment, if so required by applicable law. ,  
### ARTICLE XIII  
### TERMINATION  
This Trust may be terminated by a majority of the Trustees, when all agreements between the Union and all  
contributing Employers providing for contributions to this Trust are no longer in force and effect.  
Upon the termination of the Trust by notice as herein provided, the Trust shall, nevertheless, continue for the sole  
purpose of dissolution and the Trust Fund shall be used by the Trustees for the sole purpose of providing Vacation  
benefits to Participants entitled thereto until such funds are completely exhausted, upon the occurrence of whichevent,  
the Trust shall be completely terminated. In the event a surplus remains after payment of all expenses and all benefits  
due to participants and beneficiaries, said surplus shal] be paid by the Trustees equally to the then participants of the  
fund.  
At such time as said Trust is terminated, the Trustees shall render a final accounting of the affairs of the Trust and  
the Trust Fund to the Union and to all then participating Employers, and thereafter, there shall be no claim against the  
Trustees, and they shall have no further duties or responsibilitics,  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### TRUSTEES  
Trustees heretn have been selected as follows: JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES KROUT and JAMES SMITH have  
### been selected by the Union and WALTER BAZAN, SR., RICHARD SUNDERMEYER and DONALD HERBSTER  
have been selected by the Contributing Employers. Painters District Council No. 2 shall have the right to designate  
three Trustees and the Employers shall have the right to designate three Trustees. However, irrespective of the number  
of Trustees designated or voting on a particular question, the voting power of the Union Trustees and Employer  
Trustees shall at all times be equal.  
Any Trustee may resign by giving thirty (30) days’ notice in the United States Mail to the other Trustees and to  
the Board of intent to so resign. The Union may discharge any of the Trustees appointed by it, by giving thirty (30)  
days’ notice in the United States Mail of such intent to discharge. The Employers may discharge any Trustee appointed  
by them by giving thirty (30) days’ notice in the United States Mail of such intent to discharge. The removal of a Trustee  
shail be automatic at the end of a thirty-day period of notification by either the Trustee or the Union or the Employers  
as described above of resignation or removal.  
_ In the event any of the Trustees selected by the Union shall die, be incapable of acting hereunder, resign or be  
removed, a successor Trustee shall immediately be appointed by the Union. In the event any of the Trustees selected  
by the Employers shall die, become incapable of acting hereunder, resign or be removed, a successor Trustee shal]  
immediately be appointed by the Employers. Failure of the Union or the Employers to select a successor Trustee  
promptly shall not prevent the remaining Trustees from carrying on the affairs of this Trust.  
A is the person who exercises any discretionary authority or discretionary control representing the  
management or disposition of plan assets, renders any investment advice for a fee or other compensation, or exercises  
any discretionary authority or responsibility for plan administration. For purposes of this Plan, the Trustees are  
authorized to perform any of the above functions and shall be the Plan Fiduciaries. The Fiduciaries may act in one or  
more fiduciary capacity with respect to the Plan and may allocate to others certain aspects of the management and  
operation responsibilities of the Plan including the employment of investment (and other) advisors and investment  
managers and the delegation of any ministeria} duties or functions to qualified individuals. Any delegation of duties,  
general investment powers, or other powers shall be evidenced by a document in writing which shall be filed with the  
records of the Plan.  
The Trustees shall select one (1) of their number who will serve as Chairman, and one (1) to serve as Co-Chairman,  
and one (1) to serve as Secretary and one (1) to serve as Treasurer. The term of office for each office shall be one (1)  
year, or until an election is duly held, although the incumbent of any office may be re-elected. If the Chairman is an  
Employer Trustee, the Co-Chairman shall be a Union Trustee, and vice versa. The Chairman, or !n his absence the  
Co-Chairman, shall preside at meetings.  
The Trustees may designate one (or more) Trustee as Managing Trustee, and may, from time to time thereafter,  
change such designation. In the event a Managing Trustee is designated, he may be delegated any of the following  
rights and powers, in the name of and in behalf of, all of the Trustees with full and binding obligation and effect upon  
all the Trustees, to-wit: to receive contributions, to open bank accounts, to sign checks, to pay insurance premiums,  
to keep records of receipts, disbursements and monies on hand and held in the Trust Fund, to keep records of all benefits  
provided participants in the Vacation Fund, to hire such corporation or persons as may be required for the efficient  
administration of the Trust Fund, to purchase all supplies needed for the proper bookkeeping and proper administration  
of the Trust Fund and to expend from the Funds available, any money necessary for these purposes, to have the books  
of the Trust Fund audited annually, to have the books and auditor’s report available for inspection at all times by the  
other Trustees, participants, officers of the Union and Employers, and to perform such other functions and duties of  
a purely ministerial nature as may be determined from time to time by the Trustees in the interest of the proper and  
efficient administration of the Trust. The Trustees shall further have the right to audit the books of a participating  
employer when such is deemed necessary or desirable for the effective administration of the Trust. If no designation  
of a Managing Trustee is made, then all actions are to be taken in the manner provided hereinbelow unless otherwise  
properly delegated.  
A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of the presence at the meeting of at least four (4) Trustees,  
two (2) of whom represent Employers and two (2) of whom represent the Union. Decisions of the Trustees shall be  
made by majority vote. If an unequal number of Employer and Union Trustees attend a meeting, the voting power of  
  
the group with less Trustees present shall be and stand increased to that of the group with more Trustees present so  
that there shall be equal voting strength between Employer and Union Trustees at all times at such meeting. A deadlock  
shall be deemed to exist whenever either of the following situations arise: (1) whenever a proposal, nomination, motion  
or resolution or other matter is voted upon and the votes cast are evenly divided and remain evenly divided; and (2)  
whenever a quorum is lacking at a meeting duly called and there shall be absent from said meeting two (2) or more  
Trustees of one group, and a majority of the Trustees present declare a deadlock due to the inability to obtain aquorum.  
In the event of such deadiock in either case arising, the Employer Trustees and the Union Trustees shall meet promptly  
for the purpose of agreeing upon an impartial umpire to break such deadlock by casting the deciding vote or deciding  
any dispute in question or matter under consideration. In the event of the inability of the Employer Trustees and Union  
Trustees to agree upon the selection of such impartial umpire, then such impartial umpire shall, on the petition of either  
the Employer Trustees or Union Trustees, be appointed by the Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the  
district wherein the priacipal office of the Trust is located. The decision of any such impartial umpire shall be final  
and binding on the Trustees and all concerned. |  
The Trustees shal] meet at least quarterly untess a quorum thereof shall agree in advance that there is no business  
to come before the meeting. Any two (2) Trustees may call a meeting of the Trustees at any time by giving at least  
five (5) days’ written notice of the time and place thereof to each Trustee; provided, however, that such notice need  
not be given to any member of the Board of Trustees who has expressly waived the service of such written notice upon  
him, Any meeting so called may be postponed once for a reasonable period upon the request of any Trustee upon  
showing of justifiable cause therefor. Any meeting of the Trustees may also be held at any time without notice if all  
of the Trustees consent thereto in writing or if all attend and act. If all of the Trustees shall concur in writing upon any  
proposition, no formal meeting thereon need bc held by Trustees. The Managing Trustce in the written notice shall  
notify the Trustees of the subjects to be discussed but this shall not be construed to limit any other subjects of discussion  
properly placed before the meeting.  
The Trustees and Fund Office personnel may receive reimbursement for expenses properly and actually incurred  
in the performance of their duties as Trustee, including but not limited to expenses incurred in attending educational  
conferences, seminars and meetings, provided that the Trustees determine in each case the subject matter of the  
conference, seminar or meeting is relevant to the administration of this Trust and that the expenses incurred are  
reasonable. Reasonable compensation may be paid to the Trustees for services rendered in the performance of their  
duties as Trustees, provided such payments are made in accordance with the Federal and State laws and regulations  
then in effect governing Trusts.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### TRUSTEES’ POWERS AND DUTIES  
The Trustees shall have general supervision of the operation of the Trust Fund and shall conduct the business and  
activities of the same according to law and this Trust Agreement. The Trustees shall have the obligation to receive,  
hold and administer monies or other funds received by them from Employers (and from any Employer who may  
hereafter agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of this instrument), or otherwise, in Trust under the terms  
hereof. In order out and effectuate the purposes hereof, the Trustees shall have the power and authority to adopt  
uniform rules and regulations as are consistent with and necessary for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement.  
The Trustees shall deposit all monies received by them in such bank or banks as they may designate for the purpose  
and may, in their sole and absolute discretion, if they deem it advisable, invest and reinvest such funds as they do not  
require for current expenditure in such securities as are Segal for the investment of trust funds under the laws of the  
United States and the State of Missouri, and such other property, including real property, which it deems to be a proper  
investment and may execute any and all documents required for the purchase or sale of any such investment.  
All withdrawals of monies from a depository of the Fund shall be made only by check signed by one (1) Union  
Trustee and one (I) Employer Trustee, who have been authorized by the Trustees to sign and countcrsign, unless the  
Trustees shall otherwise delegate this authority.  
The Trustees shall have power and authority to employ or hire such agents, attorneys, accountants, actuaries,  
clerical assistance or other employees and personnel as in the opinion of the Trustees may be necessary or desirable  
in administering the Trust Fund, and the compensation or fees of any such persons shall be paid from the Trust Fund.  
  
The Trustees are specifically and expressly authorized and empowered in their discretion to employ one or more  
agents or investment managers to provide for the safekeeping and investment of all or part of the assets of the Fund  
and to delegate to such agent or investment managers all or such of their discretionary powers and duties with respect  
to the investment and reinvestment of the Trust Fund as the Trustees in their sole discretion shall deem to be for the  
best interest of the Trust Fund. The Trustees may alter, amend or revoke any such delegation at their discretion. The  
Trustees shall not be liable for the acts or omtssions of any such agent or investment manager in carrying out duties  
or powers so delegated, except as may be required by Federal law.  
The Trustees may at any time or from time to time delegate to a named fiduciary or fiduciaries all or part of their  
responsibilities, obligations, duties or powers set forth herein and the Trustees may alter, amend or revoke any such  
delegation at their discretion. The Trustees shall not be tiable for any act or omission of any such named fiduciary in  
Carrying out duties or powers so delegated, except as may be required by Federal Law or regulation.  
Any delegation of duties, general investment powers or other powers shall be evidenced by a document in writing  
which shall be filed with the records of the Plan.  
No party dealing with the Trustees in relation to this Trust shall be obliged to see to the application of any money  
or property of the Trust Fund, or to see that the terms of this Trust have been complied with or be obliged to inquire  
into the necessity or expedience of any act of the Trustees, and every instrument executed by the Trustees shall be  
conclusive in favor of every person relying thereon ()) that at the time of the delivery of said instrument the Trust hereby  
created was in full force and effect, (2) that said instrument was executed in accordance with the terms and conditions  
contained in this Trust Agreement.  
The payment of money to the Trustees shali effectually discharge the person or persons paying or transferring the  
Same, and such person or persons shall not be bound to see to the application or be answerable for the loss or  
misapplication thereof. The Trustees shall have the authority to reasonably request of any Employer, and an Employer  
when so reasonably requested shall furnish to the Trustees, such information and reports as may be necessary in the  
of their dutics under this Plan and Trust Agreement.  
The Trustees and all their agents who handle funds of this Trust shall furnish such bond as may be required by law,  
and shall be responsible at all times for all monies received by them and shall be responsible, further, for the proper  
execution and administration of the terms of the Trust.  
The Trustees shall keep or cause to be kept true and accurate books of account and records of their transactions,  
which books shall be kept in the possession of the Secretary, Treasurer, or such employee or agent as the Trustees may  
designate. Ail books of account shall be audited at least annually. A statement of such audit shail be available for  
inspection by all interested persons, at the principal office of the Trust Fund.  
The Trustees shall: (a) prescribe procedures for appeals from the denial of any trust benefits, and serve as an appeals  
board for a full, fair and final review of any such denial; (b) retain a qualified public accountant; (c) comply with  
requirements with respect to Plan descriptions and other reports to be provided to the Secretary of Labor and  
Participants; (d) submit annual reports; and (e) designate the agent for service of process in any legal action initiated  
under the Employce Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or as thereafter amended.  
The Trustees shall not engage in a prohibited transaction within the meaning of ERISA. The Trustees shall not be  
precluded from applying to the Secretary of Labor for an exemption with respect to a prohibited transaction.  
The Trustees are empowered and authorized to perform any and all transactions for the purpose of acquiring or  
transferring property. real or personal. By way of clarification, but not limitation, the Trustees are authorized to borrow  
funds and to execute any documents required therefor; to purchase property, real or personal, and to execute any and  
al) documents required therefor; to sell or otherwise transfer property and to make, execute, acknowledge and deliver  
any and all deeds, deeds of trust, assignments, conveyances and any other documents of transfer and conveyance and  
any and all other instruments that may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the powers herein granted.  
The foregoing is not intended to limit in any way the powers of the Trustees, it being the intent that the Trustees  
shall have all implied powers of trustees and power and authority to do all these things which in the opinion of the  
Trustees may be necessary or desirable for the proper and necessary administration and operation of the Trust Fund.  
The Trustees’ duties under this Agreement shail be discharged solely in the interest of the Participants and  
Beneficiaries and (1) for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits for such Participants and Beneficiaries and  
— 9 —  
defraying reasonable expenses of administering the Plan; (2) with the care, skill, prudence and diligence under the  
circumstances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would use  
in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims; (3) by diversifying the investments of the Plan  
sO as to minimize the risk of losses, unless under the circumstances it is clearly prudent not to do so; and (4) in  
accordance with this Agreement and the Plan insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of Title [of ERISA.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### RESPONSIBILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION  
1. Responsibility of Trustees. The Trustees shall be responsible for funds only when and as such funds have been  
received by them.  
2. Indemnification of Trustees. The Trustees may purchase and pay, out of the assets of the Fund, insurance for  
the benefit of the Fund and for the protection of the fiduciaries under the Vacation Plan to cover liability or losses  
occurring by reason of the act or omission of a fiduciary, provided that such insurance permits recourse by the insurer  
against the fiduciary in the case of a breach of a fiduciary obligation by such fiduciary.  
The Trustees shall be responsible for the actions of their Co-Trustees, other fiduciaries or agents and employces  
of the Trust, only under the provisions of ERISA.  
The Trustees shall be personally responsible for their own actions only as required by applicable federal law.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### VESTING OF RIGHTS  
No Participants, Employer, Union, or any other person or group of persons shall have any vested interest or right  
in the Trust Fund or in the payments from the Trust Fund, or in the eligibility requirements for benefits as changed  
or altered, except to the extent and as expressly provided in this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURE  
Any claim for benefits under the Plan shall be made in writing to the Administrator of the Plan on forms which  
will be provided upon request to the office of the Administrator. The Administrator shail furnish the claimant with  
a written notice of his decision within ninety (90) days after receipt of the claim, unless special circumstances require  
an extension of time for processing the claim. If such an extension of time for processing the claim is required, written  
notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the expiration of the initial ninety-day period. In no  
event shall such an extension exceed a period of nincty days after the expiration of the initial ninety-day period. The  
Trustees have designated Otway Rash as the Administrator of the Plan.  
In the event that the decision of the Administrator is to wholly or partially deny a claim, the claimant shall be  
provided with a written decision which shall set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant the  
following:  
(1) the specific reason or reasons for the denial;  
(2) specific reference to pertinent plan provisions on which the denial is based;  
(3) adescription of any additionaf material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and  
an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and  
(4) appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the participant or beneficiary wishes to submit his or  
her claim for review.  
In the event a claim is wholly or partially denied, a claimant or his duly authorized representative may appeal the  
claim to the Board of Trustees of the Plan by written application to the Board of Trustees filed within sixty (60) days  
after receipt by the claimant of written notification of denial of a claim. Said application for review shall be available  
— 10 —  
at the office of the Administrator. The claimant shall have a right to have a duly authorized representative to review  
pertinent documents and to submit issues and comments in writing.  
The decision by the Board of Trustees shail be made no later than the date of the meeting of the Board which  
immediately follows the Plan’s receipt of a request for review, unless the request for review is filed within thirty (30)  
days preceding the date of such meeting. In such acase, a decision may be made by no later than the date of the second  
meeting following the plan’s receipt of the request for review.  
If special circumstances require an extension of time for reviewing the decision of the Administrator, the decision  
of the Board of Trustees shall be rendered not later than the third meeting of the Board following the Plan’s receipt  
of the request for review. If such an extension of time for review is required, written notice of the extension shall be  
furnished to the claimant prior to the commencement of the extension. The decision of the Board shall be in writing  
and shall include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant,  
as well as specific references to the pertinent plan provisions on which the decision is based.  
The benefit claims procedure provided herein is exclusive and no action shall be brought in any court or before  
any agency to recover any benefits or seek any relief under this Plan prior to the exhaustion of the remedies set forth  
herein.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### LIABILITY OF EMPLOYER  
The liabitity of any individual employer to the Fund shall in no event extend to the obligations of another  
participating employer or other participating employers.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board has caused these presents to be signed by its duly authorized officer, and  
the Trustees have hereunto set their names the date and year first above written.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO 10/4/88 WALTER BAZAN, SR. 10/4/88  
### JAMES KROUT 10/4/88 RICHARD SUNDERMEYER 10/4/88  
### JAMES SMITH 10/4/88 DONALD HERBSTER 10/5/88  
—  
### AMENDMENTS TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO, 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Trust hereby adopt the following amendments to the  
Trust and Plan Agreement:  
i. The first sentence of paragraph three of Article VII is deleted, and the following sentence is inserted in its place:  
The contributions as established from time to time in the Agreements between the  
contributing Employer and the Union shall be due no later than the seventh  
calendar day following the weekly payroll day agreed upon between the contrib-  
uting Employer and the Union.  
2. The following two paragraphs are inserted between the second and third paragraphs of Article VII.  
The contributions as established from time to time in the Agreements shall be due  
on or before the seventh calendar day following the weekly payroll day agreed  
upon between the contributing Employer and the Union. After seven calendar days  
from the agreed payroll date a contributing Employer shal} be assessed liquidated  
damages of 10% up to 30 days of delinquency; after which liquidated damages of  
.1 1/2% shall be assessed compounded monthly until the full contribution is made.  
In any legal action instituted to recover delinquent contributions or to recover  
unpaid liquidated damages, the contributing Employer shall be obligated to pay  
reasonable attorney’s fees and reasonable accounting fees in addition to all  
principal amounts due in addition to other relief prescribed by law.  
This amendment shall be effective the 27th day of December , 1988.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO  
### JAMES KROUT RICHARD SUNDERMEYER 12/27/88  
### JAMES SMITH DONALD HERBSTER 12/27/88  
### AMENDMENT TO THE PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Trust hereby adopt the following amendments to the  
Trust and Plan Agreement.  
1. The first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
This Agreement, first made and entered into on July 13, 1966 to be effective  
as of the first day of September, 1966, by and between the Painters District Council  
No. 2 and the Painters Employers of St. Louis, Missouri and vicinity, who adhere  
to the area practice and who have a contract with the Painters District Council No.  
2, and certain named individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are  
### JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES KROUT, and DONALD MANGELSDORF  
{employee trustees) and RANDY FREESE, RICHARD SUNDERMEYER, and  
PAUL MEYER (employertrustees), hereinafter referred to collectively as Trustees.  
2. The first sentence of Article XIV is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
Trustees have been selected as follows: JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES KROUT  
and DONALD MANGELSDOREF have been selected by the Union and RANDY  
### FREESE, RICHARD SUNDERMEYER, and PAUL MEYER have been selected  
by the Contributing Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES: DATE MANAGEMENT TRUSTEES:  
### JOSEPH SHATRO RICHARD SUNDERMEYER  
### JAMES KROUT | RANDY FREESE  
### DONALD MANGELSDORF 12/27/91 PAUL MEYER  
—- —  
### DATE  
12/27/91  
12/27/9}  
12/27/91  
### AMENDMENT TO THE PAINTERS DISTRICT NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement hereby adopt the following  
amendment to the Plan.  
The last sentence of paragraph one of Article XVIII is deleted, and the following sentencc is inserted in its place:  
The Trustees have designated Eugene Fowler as the Administrator of the Plan.  
This amendment shall be effective July I, 1992.  
### UNION TRUSTEES: DATE MANAGEMENT TRUSTEES: DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO 11/1/94 RICHARD SUNDERMEYER 11/3/94  
### JAMES KROUT 11/1/94 RANDY FREESE 10/31/94  
TOM ERNST _ 11/1/94 PAUL MEYER 11/4/94  
— 14—  
### AMENDMENT TO THE PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2 |  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
Effective September 20, 1994, the Trustees of the Painters District Counct] No. 2 Vacation Trust amend the  
introductory paragraph of the Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement and the first paragraph of Section XIV of the  
Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement to provide the Trustees are as follows:  
Union Trustees  
Joseph Shatro  
James Krout  
Tom Ernst  
### UNION TRUSTEES:  
### JOSEPH SHATRO  
### JAMES KROUT  
### TOM ERNST  
### DATE  
11/1/94  
11/1/94  
11/1/94  
—15—  
Employer Trustees  
Richard Sundermeyer  
Randy Freese -  
Paul Meyer  
### MANAGEMENT TRUSTEES:  
### RICHARD SUNDERMEYER  
### RANDY FREESE  
### PAUL MEYER  
### DATE  
11/3/94  
10/31/94  
11/4/94  
### AMENDMENT TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement hereby adopt the following  
amendments to the Plan and Trust Agreement.  
1. The first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
This Agreement, first made and entered into on July 13, 1966 to be effective as of the first day of  
September, 1966, by and between the Painters District Council No. 2 and the Painters Employers of St.  
Louis, Missouri and vicinity, who adhere to the area practice and who have a contract with the Painters  
District Council No. 2, and certain named individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are  
### JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES KROUT, and TOM ERNST (employee trustees) and DAN HANSON,  
EDWARD SMITH, and RANDY FREESE (employer trustees), hereinafter referred to collectively as  
Trustees, and:  
2. The first sentence of Article XIV is deleted and the following is inserted 1n its place:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES KROUT and TOMERNST  
have been selected by the Union and DAN HANSON, EDWARD SMITH and RANDY FREESE have been  
selected by the Contributing Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO 3-19-96 DAN HANSON 3-19-96  
### JAMES KROUT 3-19-96 EDWARD SMITH 3-19-96  
TOM ERNST 3-19-96 RANDY FREESE 3-19-96  
—  
### AMENDMENT TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement hereby adopt the following  
amendments to the Plan and Trust Agreement.  
1. The first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
ad  
This Agreement, first made and entered into on July 13, 1966 to be effective as of the first day of  
September, 1966, by and between the Painters District. Council No. 2 and the Painters Employers of St.  
Louis, Missouri and vicinity, who adhere to the area practice and who have a contract with the Painters  
District Council No. 2, and certain named individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are  
### JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES KROUT, and GENE KAPPLER (employee trustees) and DAN HANSON,  
EDWARD SMITH, and RANDY FREESE (employer trustees), hereinafter referred to collectively as  
Trustees, and  
The first sentence of Article XIV is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: JOSEPH SHATRO, JAMES KROUT and GENE  
KAPPLER have been selected by the Union and DAN HANSON, EDWARD SMITH and RANDY  
FREESE have been selected by the Contributing Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO 6-18-96 DAN HANSON 6-18-96  
### JAMES KROUT 6-18-96 EDWARD SMITH 6-18-96  
### GENE KAPPLER 6-18-96 RANDY FREESE 6-18-96  
— | 7-—  
### AMENDMENT TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement hereby adopt the following -  
amendments to the Plan and Trust Agreement.  
1. The first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
This Agreement, first made and entered into on July 13, 1966 to be effective as of the first day of  
September, 1966, by and between the Painters District Council No. 2 and the Painters Employers of St.  
Louis, Missouri and vicinity, who adhere to the area practice and who have a contract with the Painters  
District Council No. 2, and certain named individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are  
### RICHARD BRYAN, JAMES KROUT, and GENE KAPPLER (employee trustees) and DAN HANSON,  
EDWARD SMITH, and RANDY FREESE (employer trustees), hereinafter referred to collectively as  
Trustees, and  
2. The first sentence of Article XIV is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows:RICHARD BRYAN, JAMES KROUT and GENE  
KAPPLER have been selected by the Union and DAN HANSON, EDWARD SMITH and RANDY  
FREESE have been selected by the Contributing Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 9-16-97 DAN HANSON 9-16-97  
### JAMES KROUT 9-16-97 EDWARD SMITH 9-16-97  
### GENE KAPPLER 9-16-97 RANDY FREESE 9-16-97  
— 18 —  
### TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement hereby adopt the following  
amendments to the Plan and Trust Agreement.  
|. The first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
  
This Agreement, first made and entered into on July 13, 1966 to be effective as of the first day of  
September, 1966, by and between the Painters District Council No. 2 and the Painters Employers of St.  
Louis, Missouri and vicinity, who adhere to the area practice and who have a contract with the Painters  
District Council No. 2, and certain named individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are  
### RICHARD BRYAN, RICHARD BROEKER and KEVIN KENNY (employee trustees) and DAN HANSON,  
EDWARD SMITH, and RANDY FREESE (employer trustees), hereinafter referred to collectively as  
Trustees, and  
The first sentence of Article XIV is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows:RICHARD BRYAN, RICHARD BROEKER and  
KEVIN KENNY have been selected by the Union and DAN HANSON, EDWARD SMITH and RANDY  
FREESE have been selected by the Contributing Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
RICHARD BRYAN 12-23-97 DAN HANSON [2-23-97  
### RICHARD BROEKER 12-23-97 EDWARD SMITH 1-8-98  
KEVIN KENNY [2-23-97 RANDY FREESE {2-23-97  
— {9—  
### AMENDMENTS TO THE PAINTERS  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement hereby  
adopt the following Amendments to the Plan and Trust Agreement:  
1. the first paragraph of the preamble is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
This Agreement, first made and entered into on July 13, 1966 to be effective as of the  
first day of September, 1966, by and between the Painters District Council No. 2 and  
the Painters Employers of St. Louis, Missouri and vicinity, who adhere to the area  
practice and who have a contract with the Painters District Council No. 2, and  
certain named individuals, as initial trustees, whose successors currently are  
RICHARD BRYAN, DANIEL WOODS, and LEN HART (employee trustees) and  
### DANIEL HANSON, EDWARD SMITH, and RANDY FREESE (employer trustees),  
hereinafter referred to collectively as Trustees, and  
2. The first sentence of Article XVI is deleted and the following is inserted in its place:  
Trustees herein have been selected as follows: RICHARD BRYAN, DANIEL  
WOODS, and LEN HART have been selected by the Union and DANIEL HANSON,  
EDWARD SMITH, and RANDY FREESE have been selected by the Contributing  
Employers.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 10/13/00 DANIEL HANSON  
### DANIEL WOODS 10/13/00 EDWARD SMITH  
### LEN HART 10/13/00 RANDY FREESE  
— 290 —  
### AMENDMENT TO THE PAINTERS  
### DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### VACATION PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT  
Effective on January 1, 2001, the Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Vacation Trust  
amend the Vacation Plan and Trust Agreement by deleting the third paragraph of Article VII and |  
replacing it with the following:  
The contributions as established from time to time by the collective bargaining  
agreement shall be due on the date set out in the collective bargaining agreement. If  
the payment of contributions is delinquent, the Employer shall be assessed  
liquidated damages of 10% up to 30 days of delinquency. Thereafter, liquidated  
damages of | '/2% shall be assessed, compounded monthly until the full contribution  
is made.  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### RICHARD BRYAN 2/9/01 RANDY FREESE 2/9/01  
### DANIEL WOODS 2/9/01 DANIEL HANSON 2/13/01  
### DANIEL LEN HART 2/9/01 EDWARD SMITH 2/12/01  
—24—  
©  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL #2  
### APPRENTICESHIP AND JOURNEYMEN TRAINING TRUST  
### APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING  
### DECLARATION OF TRUST  
THIS AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST, entered into as of this day of  
19 , in the City of Saint Louis, State of Missouri, by and between Painters District Council  
#2 of the International Brotherhood of Painters and Allied Trades, AFL-CIO (hereinafter called the UNION) and the  
Contracting Painters & Decorators of America Chapter #2 of the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America,  
(hereinafter called the “CHAPTER”) and together with such other individual contractors who may now or hereafter  
become parties to the within plan and  
### EMPLOYER TRUSTEES UNION TRUSTEES  
   
who, with their successors designated in the manner hereinafter provided for, are hereinafter called the  
### “TRUSTEES”.  
“WHEREAS, the Union and the Chapter have theretofore entered into a Collective Bargaining Agreement dated  
the Ist. day of January, 1977, which by some of its terms, require specific contributions by all employers who are  
parties thereto, for the purpose of financing the establishment and maintenance of a Trust for the operation and  
implementation of a program or programs providing for the training of apprentices and the retraining or refresher  
training of journeymen, and it is the desire of the Union and the Chapter to create an appropriate Trust for the  
administration of such training programs.”  
### NOW THEREFORE, THIS AGREEMENT AND TRUST  
### WITNESSETH:  
That in consideration of the within premises, and in order to create a suitable Trust for the purpose of providing  
and implementing the Training Programs desired by the parties hereto, it is mutually understood and agreed as follows:  
### ARTICLE I  
### DEFINITIONS  
Section 1. The term “employer” as used herein shall mean (a) all members of the Chapter and (b) all non-member  
signatores to the aforesaid Collective Bargaining Agreement or-any such renewals or extensions thereof, employing  
members of the Union, and (c) such other painting and decorating contractors who are signator Collective Bargaining  
Agreements with other local unions of the Brotherhood with the consent of the parties hereto and providing that such  
out-of-town contractors comply with the terms and conditions of the aforesaid Collective Bargaining Agreement and  
this Declaration.  
Section 2. The term “Union” as used herein shall mean Painters District Council #2 of the International  
Brotherhood of Painters and Allied Trades, AFL-CIO.  
Section 3. The term “Employee” as used herein shall mean and include any employee on whose behalf the Union  
acts as collective bargaining agent and who is covered by a collective bargaining agreement between the Union and  
any employer paying money into the Trust hereby created pursuant to the terms of this agreement and such collective  
bargaining agreement or either of said agreements.  
Section 4. The term “Trustees” as used herein shall mean the Trustees designated in this agreement and their  
successors designated in the manner provided herein. The term “Union Trustee” shall mean the Trustee designated  
by the Union in the manner hereinafter specified. The term “Employer Trustee” shall mean a Trustee designated by  
the Chapter in the manner hereinafter specified.  
Section 5. The term “Agreement and Declaration of Trust” as used herein shall mean this instrument including  
any amendments hereto and modifications hereof.  
Section 6. The term “Employer Contributions” as used herein shal! mean payments by Employers to the Trustees  
of the Training Program Trust.  
Section 7. The term “Training Program Trust’, “Training Program”, and “Training Fund” as used herein shall  
mean the Trust Fund created hereby.  
Section 8. The term “Collective Bargaining Agreement” as used herein shall mean the Collective Bargaining  
Agreement entered into between the Chapter, or other employers that are not members of said chapter but employ a  
member or members of Painters District Council #2, and the Union and any renewals or amendments thereof providing  
for payments by Employers to the Apprenticeship & Journeymen Training Trust.  
Section 9. The term “Trust” and “Trust Fund” shall mean the Trust established hereby .  
### ARTICLE II  
### PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL #2  
### APPRENTICESHIP AND JOURNEYMEN TRAINING TRUST  
Section 1. The parties hereto hereby create and establish a Trust to be known as the Painters Apprenticeship and  
Journeymen Training Fund.  
Section 2. The trust hereby established shall consist of all Employer contributions heretofore or hereafter made  
to the Trustees, or made into any escrow account for the ultimate benefit of the Trust pending the actual execution of  
this Agreement; all income from whatever source derived and received by the Trust; and any and all property of every  
kind and description from whatever source received and held by the Trustees for use and purposes set forth in this  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust .  
Section 3. The Trust shall be used solely and exclusively for financing a Training Program for apprentice painters  
and a Program for the retaining or refresher training of Journeymen painters, for related manpower programs which  
may be approved by the parties hereto, and for implementing any such program by increasing employment  
opportunities for retrainees and apprentices who have achieved journeyman status, by acquainting the public with the  
advantages of the training program and use of trained and skilled labor and other industry promotion, all on such terms  
and in such manner as the Trustees in the exercise of their sound discretion may determine .  
Section 4. Liability of Employers for payments to the Appenticeship Training Trust shall be effective as of January  
1, 1977. Payments shall be made by the Employers to the Apprenticeship and Journeymen Training Trust on or before  
the dates determined by the Trustees, after notice by the Trustees to the Employers of such periodic payment dates.  
The amount to be contributed by any Employer shall be subject to change as the result of any change negotiated in  
the terms of the prevailing Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
Section 5. The Trustees are hereby designated as the persons to receive the payments heretofore or hereafter made  
by the Employers, and the Trustees are hereby vested with all rights, title and interest in and to such monies and all  
interest accrued thereon, and the Trustees are hereby specifically authorized to receive same.  
Section 6. The Trustees agree to receive all payments, deposits, money and other property and assets described  
in Section 2 of this Article II, and to hotd same in trust hereunder for the uses and purposes of the Trust hereby created.  
Section 7. The Trustees shall agree upon and formulate the provisions, regulations and conditions of the Training  
Program hereby contemplated and the Trustees may make any provisions, regulations or condition relating to such  
Training Program required to carry out the intent and purpose of this agreement and any and all matters relating thereof,  
so long as such provisions, regulations and conditions are not inconsistent herewith or contrary to law.  
Section 8, The Trustees may amend the Training Program Plan from time to time whenever in their discretion  
amendment is necessary or desirable so long as such amendment, or amendments, do not conflict with the provisions  
hereof.  
### ARTICLE Il  
### DESIGNATION OF TRUSTEES-ACCEPTANCE OF TRUST,  
### RESIGNATIONS, REMOVALS, FILLING OF VACANCIES  
Section 1. The Trustees under this Agreement and Declaration of Trust, who shall be trustees of the Trust created  
and established by this agreement, shall be 6 in number, and 3 of be Union Trustees selected by the Union,  
and 3 of whom shall be Employer Trustees selected by the Chapter.  
Section 2. The Trustees hereinbefore named hereby accept the Trust created and established by this Agreement  
and Declaration of Trust and consent to act as Trustees hereunder, and declare they will administer the Trust hereby  
created in accordance with the terms hereof. The signature of a Trustee to any counterpart, or copy thereof, shall be  
conclusive evidence of his acceptance.  
Section 3. Each Trustee above named and each successor Trustee shall serve as Trustee until his death, incapacity,  
resignation or removal as herein provided.  
Section 4. A Trustee may resign and become and remain fully discharged for all! further duty or responsibility  
hereunder upon giving thirty (30) days notice in writing to the remaining Trustees, or such shorter notice as the  
remaining Trustees may accept as sufficient. Such notice shall set a date when such resignation shall take effect and  
resignation shall take effect the date specified in the notice unless a successor Trustee shall have been appointed at  
an earlier date. If a successor Trustee has been appointed at an earlier date than that specified in said notice, then the  
resignation shall take effect immediately upon the appointment of such successor Trustee.  
Section 5. If any Employer Trustee shall die, become incapable of acting, resign or be removed, a successor  
Employer Trustee shall be immediately designated by the Chapter. Such designation shall be effective and binding  
in all respects immediately upon the filing with the remaining Trustees of a certificate in writing signed by the President  
or Secretary of the Chapter.  
Section 6. Any Employer Trustee may be removed at any time by the Chapter by the filing with the remaining  
Trustees of a certificate in writing to such effect executed by the President or Secretary of the Chapter.  
Section 7. If any Union Trustee shall die, become incapable of acting, resign or be removed, a successor Union  
Trustee shall be immediately designated by the Union. Such designation shall be effective and binding in all respects  
as soon as a Certificate in writing, signed by the President or Secretary of the Union has been filed with the remaining  
Trustees.  
Section 8. Any Union Trustee may be removed at any time by the Union. Such removal shall be effective upon  
the filing with the remaining Trustees of a Certificate in writing to such effect executed by the President or Secretary-  
Business Manager of the Union.  
Section 9. If, for any reason, any Trustee desires a judicial settlement of his account or the accounts of the  
Apprenticeship and Journeymen Training Trust, such action or proceeding shall be conducted entirely at the expense  
of the petitioner or plaintiff, and the costs and expense of any such action or proceeding shall not become a charge  
or expense against or payable out of the Training Fund.  
Section 10. The parties intend that the Apprenticeship and Journeymen Training Trust shall, at all times, be  
administered by an equal number of Chapter and Union Trustees. To assure equal Chapter and Union representation  
at all times, itis agreed that whenever a vacancy exists on the Board of Trustees, or whenever a member of the Board  
of Trustees is absent from a meeting and not voting by absentee ballot as provided in Article IV, Section 13, if such  
vacancy or absence results from a lack of Union Trustees, the vote represented by each absence or vacancy shall be  
divided equally among the remaining Union Trustees, each of whom shall be entitled to vote the whole or fractional  
vote, or votes allocated to him as the result of such division, in addition to his own vote until the vacancy is filled or  
the absence terminates provided that at all times a quorum is present as provided in Article IV, Section 13, of this  
Declaration. If such vacancy, or absence, results from a lack of a Chapter Trustee, the vote represented by each  
— F —.  
vacancy, or absence shall be divided equally among the remaining Chapter Trustees each of whom shall be entitled  
to vote the whole or fractional vote, or votes, allocated to him as the result of such division, in addition to his own vote  
until such vacancy is filled or such absence terminates .  
Section 11. Any successor Trustee shall, immediately upon his designation as successor Trustee and his  
acceptance of the Trusteeship in writing, filed with the Trustees, become vested with all the property rights, powers  
and duties of a Trustee and all the Trustees when in office and all necessary parties shall immediately be notified of  
the designation of any such successor Trustee.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### ADMINISTRATION OF THE TRUST  
### GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TRUSTEES  
Section 1. The Trustees shal! use and apply the property and assets of the Apprentice and Journeymen Training  
Trust for the following purposes:  
To pay or provide for the payment of all reasonable and necessary expenses of the Training Program formulated  
and adopted by them and the collection of Employer contributions and administration of the affairs of the  
Training Trust and carrying out and effectuating the purposes of the Trust, including but without limitation,  
all expenses which may be incurred in connection with the establishment and maintenance of the Training  
Trust, and the carrying out and implementation of its purposes, the employment of such administrative, legal, -  
accounting, clerical and teacher personnel as may be required for the appropriate conduct of the Training  
Program; also, the leasing or purchase or construction of such premises and such matenials, space and  
equipment as the Trustees, in their discretion, find necessary or appropriate in the performance of their duties  
_ and the administration and successful conduct of the Training Program.  
Section 2. The Trustees shall have power to construe the provisions of this Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
and the terms used herein and any construction adopted by the Trustees in good faith shal! be binding upon the Union,  
the Employers, the Employees, and all other persons and parties dealing with or affected by the Trust.  
Section 3. The Trustees are hereby empowered, in addition to such other powers as are set forth herein or conferred  
by law.  
(a) To invest and re-invest such part of the Trust Fund as in their sole judgement it is advisable to invest and  
is not required for current expenditures.  
(b) To sell, exchange, lease, convey or dispose of any property whether real or personal, at any time forming  
a part of the Trust Fund upon such terms as they may deem proper and to execute and deliver any and all  
instruments of conveyance and transfer in connection therewith.  
(c) To enter into any and all contracts and agreements to carry out the terms of this Agreement and Declaration  
of Trust for the administration and implementation of the Training Program Trust and to do all acts which  
they, in their discretion, deem necessary or advisable and such contracts, agreements and acts shall be  
binding and conclusive on the parties thereto and on the employees involved.  
(d) To comprise, settle, arbitrate and release claims or demands in favor or against the Trust Fund on such terms  
and conditions as the Trustees may deem advisable. |  
(e) To keep property and securities registered in the name of the Trustees or in the name of a bank nominee.  
(f) To keep property or securities in the custody of a bank or trust company.  
(g) To establish and accumulate as a part of the Training Program Trust if they, in their discretion, deem such  
action necessary a reserve adequate in the opinion of the Trustees to insure the continuous operation of the  
Training Program Trust.  
(h) To hold part or all of the funds of the Training Program Trust uninvested.  
(i) To pay out of the funds of the Training Program Trust all real and personal property taxes, income taxes and  
other taxes of any and all kinds levied or assessed under existing or future laws upon or in respect to the  
Training Program Trust, or any money, property or securities forming a part thereof, subject to their  
authority and right to contest such tmposition or changes.  
(j) Todoall acts, whether or not expressly authorized herein, which the Trustees may deem necessary or proper  
for the protection of the property held hereunder.  
—4—  
Section 4. The Trustees shail not receive compensation for the performance of their duties.  
Section 5. The Trustees shall formulate and promulgate such rules and regulations as may, in their discretion, be  
deemed proper and necessary for the sound and efficient administration of the Training Program Trust, provided such  
rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the terms hereof, or with the terms and conditions contained in the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement between the parties hereto.  
Section 6. Neither the Trustees, nor any individual or successor Trustee shail be personally answerable or  
personally liable for any liabilities or debts of the Training Program Trust contracted by them, as such Trustees, or  
for the nonfulfillment of contracts, but the same shall be paid out of the Training Program Trust chargeable therefore,  
and the Training Program Trust is hereby charged with a first lien in favor of such Trustees for his or their security  
and indemnification for any amounts paid out by any such Trustee for any such liability and for his and their security  
and indemnification against any liability of any kind which the Trustees or any of them may incur hereunder; provided,  
however, that nothing herein shall exempt any Trustee from liability arising out of his own willful misconduct, bad  
faith or gross negligence, or entitle such Trustee to indemnification for any amounts paid or incurred as a result thereof.  
Section 7. The Trustees and each individual Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgement or for any loss  
arising out of any act or omission in execution of the Trust including any loss resulting from the investment and  
reinvestment of the corpus of his Trust, so long as they act in good faith and without gross negligence, nor shall any  
Trustee, in the absence of his own willful misconduct, bad faith, or gross negligence, be personally liable for the acts  
or omissions (whether performed at the request of the Trustees or not) of any other Trustee, or of any agent or attomney  
selected or appointed by or acting for the Trustees.  
Section 8. The Trustees shall be fully protected in acting upon any instrument, certificates or paper believe by them  
to be genuine and to signed or presented by the proper person or persons, and shall be under no duty to make any  
investigation or inquiry as to any statement contained in any such writing, but may accept the same as conclusive  
evidence of the truth and accuracy of the statements therein contained .  
Section 9. The Trustees shall not be liable for the proper applicatton of any part of the Training Program Trust,  
or for any other liabilities arising in connection with the administration or existence of the training program trust in  
this Agreement and Declaration of Trust except as herein provided.  
Section 10. The Trustees, collectively, may from time to time consult the Trust’s legal counsel and shall be fully  
protected in acting upon such advice of counsel to the Training Program Trust as respects legal questions.  
Section 11. The Trustees shall keep true and accurate books of account and records of all their transactions which  
shall be open to the inspection of each of the Trustees at all times and which shall be audited annually or more often  
by a Certified Public Accountant selected by the Trustees. Such audits shall be available at all times for inspection  
by the Union and the Employers at the principal office of the Training Program Trust. A free copy of each certified  
audit or statement shall be furnished by the Accountant to each of the Trustees and to the Secretary -Business Manager  
of the Union and the Secretary of the Chapter.  
Section 12. Questions concerning any action to be taken by the Trustees pursuant to this Agreement and  
Declaration of Trust shall be decided by a majority of the votes cast by the Trustees present at a meeting.  
Section 13. There must be present at any meeting at which any action is taken at least two (2) Union Trustees and  
at least two (2) Employer Trustees. Any and all action taken at such a meeting in the manner above provided shall have  
the same effect and force as if taken by all of the Trustees. The Chairman, or any two Trustees, may call a meeting  
of the Trustees at any time by giving at least three (3) days written notice of the time and place thereof to each Trustee.  
Such notice may be delivered in person, by mail or by telegram. A meeting socalled shall be adjourned for a reasonable  
period upon the request of any Trustee showing justifiable cause therefore to the purpose thereof. Meetings of the  
Trustees may also be held at any time without notice if all the Trustees consent thereto. In the event that all the Trustees  
shall concur in writing upon any proposition, no meeting thereon need be held by the Trustees. The vote of the Trustees  
may be cast by them in person at a meeting or may be evidenced by written instruments signed by them or telegrams  
from them.  
Section 14. In the event of a deadlock resulting from the failure of the majority of the Trustees present at a meeting  
to agree on a matter relating to the administration of the Training Program Trust, then and in that event the entire  
contents of the matter shall be submitted to a representative of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, who  
after reviewing same shall have the final decision which shall be final and binding upon the Trustees.  
— 5 —  
Section 15. The Trustees may authorize any Employer Trustee and a Union Trustee, or any joint group equally  
composed of Employer and Union Trustees, to jointly execute any notice or other instrument in writing and all persons,  
partnerships, corporations, or associations may rely thereupon that such notice of instrument has been duly authorized  
and is binding on the Training Program Trust and the Trustees.  
Section 16. All monies received by the Trustees hereunder shall be deposited by them in such bank, or banks, as  
the Trustees may designate for that purpose and all withdrawals of monies from such account or accounts, shall be  
made only by checks signed by the Trustees authorized in writing by the Trustees to sign such checks. Except as  
hereinafter provided, no check shall be valid unless signed by two persons of whom one shall be a Union Trustee and  
one an Employer Trustee.  
Section 17. The Employer Trustee shall designate in writing the names of the particular Employer Trustees who  
may sign checks in the above manner, and the Union Tmustees shall, likewise, designate, in writing, the names of the  
particular Union Trustees who may sign checks in the above manner.  
Section 18. The Trustees may, in their discretion, designate and authorize an employee of the Training Program  
to sign checks upon such separate and specific bank account, or bank accounts, as the Trustees may designate and  
establish for such purposes.  
Section 19. The Trustees and Employees who are empowered and authorized to sign checks as aforesaid shall each  
be bonded by a duly authorized surety company in such amounts as may be determined from time to time by the  
Trustees. Each employee employed by the Trustees who may be engaged in handling monies of the Training Program  
Trust shall also be bonded by a duly authorized surety company in the same manner. The cost of the premiums on such  
bond shall be paid out of the Training Program Trust. The covering bond shall be a blanket bond of possible and in  
no event shall be less than the amount of the funds and assets handled by those covered.  
Section 20. Officers of the Board of Trustees shall consist of a Chairman and a Secretary-Treasurer, each of whom  
- shall be selected for a 5 year term. The Chairman, who shall be a representative of the Employers. The main function  
of the Chairman shall be to preside at all meetings keeping the purpose of said called meeting meaningful, and deciding  
the question of order in the enforcement of this herein Trust. Also there shall be a Secretary-Treasurer, who shall be  
a representative of the Union. The Secretary-Treasurer’s main function besides the designated duties assigned to him  
by the Board of Trustees, shall! be to keep all minutes of meetings, and to present a report to the Board of his actions  
between quarterly meetings. He shall have full power to transact the business of the Trust in the employment of  
personnel, co-ordination of programs, purchase any and all material necessary to execute this Trust.  
### ARTICLE V  
### COLLECTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS  
Section 1. Each and every Employer shalt pay to the Trustee at the time and in the manner and in the amount  
specified and set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the parties hereto and that same may be  
amended from time to time in future Agreements by the parties hereto.  
Section 2. The Trustees shall have the power to demand, collect and receive contributions and to bring suit for such  
collection and shall hold such monies for the purpose specified in this Agreement and Declaration of Trust. Delinquent  
employers shall be responsible for interest on all monies owed tothe Fund, as well as reasonable attorneys fees incurred  
by the Trustees in the collective process.  
Section 3 . The failure of an Employer to pay the contributions required hereunder promptly when due shall be  
a violation of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Employer and the Union, as well as violation of the  
Employer’s obligations hereunder. Non-payment by an Employer of any monies due shall not relieve any other  
Employer from his obligation to make payment.  
Section 4. The Board of Trustees, or any authorized agent or representative of the Trustees, shal] have the right,  
at all reasonable times during business hours, to enter upon the premises of any Employer obligated to contribute to  
the fund and to examine and copy such of the books, records, paper, and reports of said Employer as may be necessary  
to determine the hours of work done and places where done by any employees and to permit the Trustees to determine  
whether said Employer is making payment to the Trust of the amount required by the Collective Bargaining  
Agreement with said Employer.  
Section 5. Nothing herein contained shall preclude or prevent any Employer or his representative or the Union or  
its representative from the right to inspect records regarding the failure or delinquency of any Employer in his  
obligations to make contributions to the Fund herein established or maintained. .  
Section 6. The Trustees are hereby given the power to impose a sum in their discretion as liquidated damages, to  
be fixed by the rules and regulations promulgated by them, or any amendment hereinafter adopted as hereinafter  
provided, for failure to make prompt payment to the Fund as provided for herein and in the Collective Bargaining  
Agreement and hereby given the power to collect such liquidated damages, when assessed, in the same manner as they  
are given power to collect the contributions.  
Section 7. The Trustees are hereby given the power and authority, in their discretion, to require any Employer to  
. deposit funds. or a bond with the Trustees, in advance, as a guarantee for the payment of the regular periodic  
contribution of such Employer, as estimated by the Trustees, as a condition to such Employer’s participation herein,  
and are given the right to require that said guarantee be continuously maintained by such Employer as a condition to  
continue participation herein .  
### ARTICLE VI  
### TERMINATION OF THE TRUST  
Section 1, The Training Program Trust may be terminated when there is no longer in force or expected to be in  
force an agreement between the Chapter and the Union requiring Employer contributions to such Training Program  
Trust for the purposes hereinabove provided. Itis not the intention of the parties hereto, however, to permit termination  
of the Trust in any situation where a collective agreement between the parties may have expired and the parties have  
been unable to reach agreement on new terms or a renewal thereof. It is the intention of the parties that the training  
program trust may be terminated only when there exists no reasonable possibility that any agreement between the  
parties will be reached and that all relationships between the parties will cease or have ceased.  
Section 2. The Training Program Trust may be terminated at any time by the unanimous vote of all Trustees with  
the consent of the Employer and the Union.  
Section 3. If the Training Program Trust is terminated, the Trustees shall apply the Trust Fund in payment of any  
and all obligations of the Trust and shall distribute and apply any remaining surplus in such manner as will, in their  
opinion, best effectuate the purpose of this Trust including contribution of such surplus to any then existing trade  
school, either public or private, engaged in giving training analogous to the training furnished by the Training program  
Trust prior to its termination. No part of the corpus or income of the Trust shall be used for or diverted to any purpose  
other than maintenance of a Training Program of the character contemplated by this agreement.  
Section 4. Upon termination of the Training Program Trust, the Trustees shall forthwith notify the Union, the  
Employer and all other interested parties, and shall continue as Trustees for the purpose of winding up the affairs of  
the Trust.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  
Section 1. No part of the net earnings of the Fund shall inure to the benefit of, or be distributable to, its members,  
directors, officers, or other private persons, except that the Fund shall be authorized and empowered to pay reasonable  
compensation for services rendered.  
Section 2. No substantial part of the activities of the Fund shall be the carrying on of propaganda, or otherwise  
attempting to influence legislation and the Fund shall not participate in, or intervene in (including the publishing or  
distribution of statements) any political campaign on behalf of any candidate for public office.  
Section 3. In the event of dissolution, any remaining assets shall be distributed to organizations organized and  
operated exclusively for. charitable, educational or scientific purposes as shal] at the time qualify as exempt  
organizations under Section 501 (c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.  
Section 4, Each Employer shall promptly furnish to the Trustees on demand any and all records of his employees  
concerning the classification of such employees, their names, Social Security numbers, the amount of wages paid and  
hours worked, and such other payroll records and information that the Trustees may require in connection with the  
administration of the Trust and for no other purpose. Each employer shall also submit, in writing, to the Trustees at  
such regular periodic intervals and in such form as the Trustees may establish, such of the above data and information  
as may be requested by the Trustees. The Trustees, or the authorized representative, may examine and/or audit or cause  
to be audited the pertinent payroll books and records of each Employer whenever such examination is deemed  
necessary or advisable by the Trustees tn connection with the proper administration of the Trust.  
Section 5. No employer, no employee, or any person claiming by or through such employers, or employees, shall  
have any right, title or interest in or to the funds or other property of the Training Program Trust or any part thereof.  
Section 6. No person, partnership, corporation or association dealing with the Trustees shall be obligated to see  
to the application of any funds or property of the Trust, or to see that the terms of the Trust have been complied with,  
or be obligated to inquire into the necessity or expediency of any act of the Trustees and every instrument effected  
by the Trustees shall be conclusive in favor of any person, partnership, corporation or association relying thereon that:  
(a) At the time of the delivery of said instrument the Trust was in full force and effect;  
(b) Said instrument was effected tn accordance with the terms and conditions of said Agreement and Declaration  
of Trust; and  
(c) The Trustees were duly authorized and empowered to execute the agreement.  
Section 7. The Trustees may have and maintain an office at the “Painters Building” 2501 59th. Street, St. Louis,  
Missouri 63110.  
Section 8 . Notices, documents or other statements given hereunder to the Trustees, the Union, the Chapter or any  
individual concerned, shall (unless herein otherwise specified) be sufficient if in writing, and delivered or sent by  
prepaid first class mail or telegram to their respective addresses.  
Section 9. Trustees are authorized to make such applications and representations to the United States Treasury  
Department as may be necessary to secure and retain rulings that the Apprenticeship and Journeymen Training Trust  
is qualified under the pertinent provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.  
Section 10, Each signatory to this agreement shall deposit with the Trustees a written designation of address to  
which all notices required or permitted hereby may be mailed.  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### AMENDMENTS  
This Agreement and Declaration of Trust may be amended at any time, or from time to time, by a majority vote  
of the Trustees, except that no amendment shall divert the Fund as then constituted, or any part thereof, to a purpose  
other than set forth herein, nor shall there be any amendment as a result of which there would not be an equal number  
of Employer and Employee Trustees, or which will change the method of voting as set forth herein, or which will be  
in contravention of or inconsistent with the existing collective bargaining agreement, between the parties hereto, nor  
shall there be any amendment which will, in any manner, contravene the terms and provisions of any State or Federal  
law, or result in the disallowance of contributions to the Fund as a deduction for tax purposes.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT SITUS OF TRUST  
Section 1 . This Agreement and Declaration of Trust may be executived in one or more counterparts. The signature  
of a party or any counterpart shall be sufficient evidence of his execution thereof.  
Section 2. This Agreement and Declaration of Trust shall be deemed to have been executed and delivered in, and  
with reference to the laws of the state of Missouri, and it and the Trust established and created hereunder shall be  
governed by said laws. The Trustees shall be accountable only in the State of Missour.  
— 3 —  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Union and the Chapter named herein have caused this instrument to be duly  
executed on their behalf by their proper officers, thereunto duly authorized, and the Trustees named herein have  
hereunto set their respective hands and seals the day and year first above written.  
### SIGNATURE OF PARTIES  
### EMPLOYER TRUSTEES UNION TRUSTEES  
Signed: Signed:  
### AMENDMENTS TO THE PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2.  
### APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING AGREEMENT  
### AND DECLARATION OF TRUST  
On this 22nd day of August, 1984, the Trustees of the Painters Apprenticeship and Journeymen Training Fund  
hereby adopt the following amendments to the Painters District Council No. 2 Apprenticeship and Training  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust (hereafter referred to as the “Trust Agreement”):  
1. The introductory section of the Trust Agreement is hereby amended to provide that the following individuals  
are the Trustees of the Apprenticeship and Journeymen Training Fund:  
### EMPLOYER TRUSTEES: UNION TRUSTEES:  
### ROBERT LATTA JOSEPH SHATRO  
### JOSEPH WARD MARTIN BERGERON  
### FRANK WOJEHOWSKI JAMES ENGEL  
2. The current Article III, Section 6, of the Trust Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following  
provision:  
“Any Employer Trustee may be removed at any time by the Chapter by  
providing the Trustees thirty (30) days advance written notice of such removal to  
be signed by the President or Secretary of the Chapter.”  
3. Article III, Section 7, ts hereby amended to correct and change the term “Secretary” to “Secretary-Business  
Manager”. |  
4. The current Article III, Section 8, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the provision:  
“Any Union Trustee may be removed at any time by the Union by providing  
the Trustees with thirty (30) days advance written notice of such removal to be  
signed by the President or Secretary -Business Manager of the Union.”  
5. Article Ill, Section 9, is hereby deleted.  
6. Article IV, Section 9, is hereby deleted.  
7. The current Article IV, Section 10, is hereby deleted and replaced with the following provision:  
“The Trustees may from time to time consult the Trust’s legal counsel.”  
8. The current Article IV, Section 20, is hereby deleted and replaced by the following provision:  
“Officers of the Board of Trustees shall consist of a Chairman and a Secretary-  
Treasurer each of whom shall be selected for a two-year term. The Chairman shall  
be selected from the Employer Trustees. The main function of the Chairman shall  
be to preside at a]] meetings. The Secretary-Treasurer shall be selected from the  
Union Trustees. The Secretary-Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept minutes of  
all meetings and to report to the Board concerning his actions between meetings.  
The Secretary-Treasurer shall have the authority to pay for utility expenses,  
salaries of personnel and payroll taxes and to purchase office supplies, training  
supplies, materials and equipment necessary to the operation of the Training  
operated pursuant to this Trust Agreement, subject to any terms, condi-  
tions or limitations established by the Board of Trustees. Any out-of-town  
expenses must be approved by the Board of Trustees prior to reimbursement. The  
Board of Trustees shal! authorize the hiring of personnel and determine the  
compensation and expenses associated with each position. The Board of Trustees  
shall have final authority on all matters concerning the operation of the Trust. The  
Trustees are authorized to retain the services of such professionals deemed  
necessary to the operation of the Trusts. The Trustees may from time to time  
authorize one or more of their members to attend conferences, meetings and  
seminars where the subject matter is relevant to the operation of the Trust. A  
Trustee who has been authorized by the Board to attend such a meeting or seminar  
shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable expenses actually incurred in  
connection with his attendance and participation.  
9. Article IV, Section 11, is hereby amended to add the words “and certified” after the words “audited” and before  
the word as to provide:  
Shall be audited and certified annually. ...”  
### JOSEPH SHATRO  
### JOSEPH WARD MARTIN BERGERON  
### FRANK WOJEHOWSKI JAMES ENGEL  
—li—  
### AMENDMENT TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING AGREEMENT  
### AND DECLARATION OF TRUST  
The Trustees of the Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Fund hereby adopt the following amendment to the  
Painters District Council No. 2 Apprenticeship and Training Agreement and Declaration of Trust:  
The introductory paragraph of the Trust Agreement is hereby amended to  
provide that the following individuals are the Trustees of the Apprenticeship and  
Journeyman Training Fund:  
### UNION TRUSTEES  
### JOSEPH SHATRO  
### MARTIN BERGERON  
### JAMES ENGEL  
### UNION TRUSTEES DATE  
### JOSEPH SHATRO 8/6/86  
### MARTIN BERGERON _ 8/6/86  
### JAMES ENGEL 8/6/86  
### EMPLOYER TRUSTEES  
### JOSEPH WARD  
### FRANK WOJEHOWSKI  
### MICHAEL SLATTERY  
### EMPLOYER TRUSTEES  
### JOSEPH WARD  
### FRANK WOJEHOWSKI  
### MICHAEL SLATTERY  
—12—  
### DATE  
8/6/86  
8/6/86  
8/6/86  
### AMENDMENT TO PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2  
### APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING DECLARATION OF TRUST  
Effective January 1, 1994, the Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2 Apprenticeship and Journeymen  
Training Trust hereby amend the introductory paragraph of the Apprenticeship and Training Declaration of Trust to  
provide the Trustees are as follows:  
Union Trustees  
Joseph Shatro  
Martin Bergeron  
James Engel  
### UNION TRUSTEES: DATE  
Joseph Shatro 11/1/94  
Martin Bergeron 11/1/94  
James Engel 11/1/94  
Employer Trustees  
Frank Wojehowski  
Michael Slattery  
Harold Wies  
### MANAGEMENT TRUSTEES:  
Frank Wojehowski  
Michael Slattery  
Harold Wies  
### DATE  
11/7/94  
11/7/94  
11/7/94  
### AMENDMENT TO THE PAINTERS DISTRICT COUNCIL NO. 2 .  
### APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING-DECLARATION OF TRUST  
The Trustees of the Painters District Council No. 2.Apprenticeship and Journeyman Training Trust hereby amend  
the introductory paragraph of the Apprenticeship and Training Declaration of Trust to provide the Trustees are as  
follows:  
Employer Trustees  
Frank Wojehowski  
Michael Slattery  
Harold Wies  
### UNION TRUSTEES  
### RICHARD BRYAN  
### RICHARD BROEKER  
### ROBERT A. LUCKS  
### DATE  
12-15-97  
12-15-97  
12-15-97  
Union Trustees  
Richard Bryan  
Richard Broeker  
Robert A. Lucks  
### EMPLOYER TRUSTEES DATE  
### FRANK WOJEHOWSKI — 12-15-97  
### MICHAEL SLATTERY 12-15-97  
HAROLD WIES 12-15-97  
—14—  
### TRUST AGREEMENT  
### AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST ESTABLISHING  
### ST. LOUIS CONTRACTING PAINTERS AND DECORATORS FOUNDATION  
THIS AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST, made this 30th day of July, 1974 between The  
Contractors Painting and Decorators Association, Inc., St. Louts Chapter No. 2, a Missouri corporation. hereinafter  
sometimes referred to as the "Association" and Robert A. Latta, Martin P. Walsh. John H. Hinrichs, Bernard Slattery,  
William I. Knopf, and R. Koslow hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Trustees".  
### WITNESSETH:  
WHEREAS, Employers, under various construction labor contracts negotiated by the Association and District  
Council No. 2 of the Brotherhood of Painters and Allied Trades, AFL-CIO for and on behalf of said Association’s  
members and other like Employers who agree to and become signatory thereto, have voluntarily agreed to pay into  
an Industry Advancement Fund.  
WHEREAS, to effectuate the foregoing, the parties hereto desire to establish by this instrument this Foundation  
and to provide for the terms and provisions under which said Foundation and the funds paid to’said Foundation to be  
handled and administered.  
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the agreements herein contained, the undersigned  
Trustees hereby declare that they will receive, hold and administer all contributions and other money or property  
whatsoever that may come into their hands as Trustees hereunder, all as herein provided, with the powers, duties, uses,  
purposes and trusts as hereinafter set forth, to-wit:  
### ARTICLE I  
### Name  
This Trust shall be known as the “St. Louis Contracting Painters and Decorators Foundation."  
### ARTICLE II  
### Definitions  
As used herein the terms shall mean:  
Section 1. "TRUST" or "FOUNDATION". This instrument, including any amendments hereto and all  
modifications hereof.  
Section 2. "ASSOCIATION". The Contractors Painting and Decorators Association, Inc., St. Louis Chapter No.  
2.  
Section 3. "TRUSTEE". The undersigned original Trustees hereof and their respective successors named and  
appointed as hereinafter provided.  
### ARTICLE HI  
### Establishment of Foundation  
There is hereby established the St. Louis Contracting Painters and Decorators Foundation, contributions to which  
shall be received, held and administered in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof for the purposes and  
objectives set forth in Article 1V hereof, and all purposes incidental, complimentary and supplemental thereto as  
determined by the Trustces hercof.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### Purposes  
The FOUNDATION is created for the purposes of receiving, holding, administering and disbursing funds to be  
used in promoting and advancing the painting contracting business and industry in the City and County of St. Louis  
and Vicinity, and more particularly, but not limited to employment of professional counsel for advice for contractors  
in the painting industry within the jurisdiction of Painters District Council No. 2 and for the disbursement of funds  
to the St. Louis Contractors, Painters and Decorators Industry Advancement Fund for the purpose of employee  
apprenticeship training, advanced skill training, supervisory training. technical education, safety education and  
promotion, accident prevention;. and plans and means for improving public and personnel relations, market  
development, standardization of contracts and specifications; job coordination, cooperation and coordination between  
architects, engineers, contractors, subcontractors and construction owners, collection and distribution of information  
useful and beneficial to the painting industry, and promotion of modernizing building codes, standardization of codes  
and otherwise promoting and advancing the interest and common good of the painting contracting industry in the City  
and County of St. Louis and vicinity.  
And the Trustees shall have the power to approve and finance from the FUND means, plans and programs  
- established to carry out the foregoing purpose.  
### ARTICLE V  
### Use and Application of the Foundation Funds  
Section 1. USE OF THE FOUNDATION FUNDS. The Trustees shall use and apply the funds of the Foundation  
for the following purposes:  
(a) To pay and provide for the payment of all reasonable and necessary expenses of handling and administering  
the Foundation, including, but not limited to, all expenses incurred in connection with the establishment of  
the Foundation, the employment of administrative, accounting, actuarial, legal, clerical and other expert  
assistance, the renting or leasing of such premises and the purchasing or leasing of all such materials, supplies  
and equipment (all of which foregoing acts and things the Trustees shall have power to do) as the Trustees,  
in their discretion, find necessary or appropriate in the performance of their duties and the administration of  
the Foundation.  
(b) To pay or provide for payment of all cost and expenses of such means, plans and programs as shall be approved  
by the Trustees, established for purposes set forth herein for which the Foundation is created, based on  
budgeted requests from the sponsors of such means, plans and programs, in such amounts as shall be approved  
by the Trustees.  
- (c} To establish and accumulate reserves to be used for the purposes of the Foundation.  
(d) To invest and reinvest monies or other properties of the Foundation until needed for purposes of the  
Foundation.  
Section 2. DEPOSITORY. All contributions and other funds received by the Trustees hereunder shall be deposited  
by them in such bank or banks as the Trustees may designate for that purpose and all withdrawal of Funds from such  
bank or banks (except hereinafter provided) shall be made only by check signed jointly by two (2) of the Trustees as  
shall be designated and authorized by action of the Board of Trustees. The Trustees in their discretion by resolution  
may designate and authorize an agent or employee of the Trust to sign checks upon a separate and specific bank account  
established for such purpose in such amounts as limited by such resolution.  
Section 3, INVESTMENTS. The Trustees may hold and invest and reinvest such monies as said Trustees, in their  
sole discretion, determine are not required for current expenditures, in obligations of the United States of America,  
any State or Municipality thereof, Savings Accounts or time deposits in Banks and Savings Accounts in Savings and  
Loan Associations, not to exceed $10,000.00 in any one bank or Association, and in such stocks, bonds mutual or  
common funds, secured real estate loans and other investments as said Trustees in their sole discretion, deem safe and  
appropriate for investments for prudent men.  
Section 4. BONDING. The Trustees who are empowered and authorized to sign checks, as aforesaid, and each  
Trustee and Employee or Agent of the Foundation who may be engaged in handling monies may be bonded against  
fraud and dishonesty, at the expense of the Foundation, in such amount as the Trustees shall determine to be necessary  
and desirable.  
Section 5. RECEIPT OF CONTRIBUTIONS. In order tocarry out and effectuate the purposes hereof, the Trustees  
shall have power to specify the place and manner in which payment of contributions to the Foundation shall be made.  
Section 6. MINISTERIAL POWERS. The Trustees may delegate any of their ministerial powers and duties to any  
of their employees or agents or one (1) or more of the Trustees.  
Section 7. GENERAL POWERS. In addition to all powers expressly set forth herein, the Trustees shall have power  
and authority to do all things and acts incidental thereto and all things and acts deemed necessary or desirable by them  
for the proper and necessary administration and operation of the Foundation and its objectives as well as all implied  
powers accorded Trustees.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### Concerning the Trustees  
Section 1. ADMINISTRATION. The Foundation shall be administered by a Board of Trustees consisting of six  
(6) natural persons appointed by the Board of Directors of the Association.  
Section 2. COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The original Board of Trustees hereof shall consist of  
the undersigned Trustees and their successors hereunder who have been duly appointed by the Board of Directors of  
the Association. :  
Section 3. OFFICERS. The Board of Trustees shall at an annual meeting elect or appoint from among its members  
the following officers of said Board and Foundation to hold office until the next annual meeting of said Board and until  
their respective successors have been duly appointed and qualified.  
A Chairman of the Board who shall preside at all meetings of the Trustees, who shall perform such other duties  
as the Trustees may from time to time delegate to him.  
A Secretary of the Board who shall keep a complete and accurate record of all meetings and proceedings of the  
Trustees.  
Section 4, MEETINGS OF TRUSTEES.An annual meeting of the Board of Trustee shall be held on such day of  
each year as designated by the Trustees, and the Trustees shall hold such other meetings from time to time on call of  
the Chairman of the Board or on the call of any two members as may be required, provided, that meetings shall be held  
at least quarterly each year.  
Section 5. BOARD CERTIFICATION. Certification by the Chairman and Secretary of the Board of Trustees at  
any particular time as to the number and personnel of the Trustees, as to the officers of the Board of Trustees, or  
Executive Committee may be relied upon by all persons dealing with the Trustees or the Foundation.  
Section 6. RESIGNATION OF THE TRUSTEES. A Trustee may resign and be and remain fully discharged from  
all further duty or responsibility hereunder upon giving thirty (30) days notice in writing thereof to the Secretary of  
the Board of Trustees, or such shorter notice as the Board of Trustees may accept as sufficient, in which notice there  
shall be stated a date when such resignation shall take effect; and such resignation shall take effect on the date specified  
in the notice, unless a successor Trustee shall have been appointed at an earlier date, in which event such resignation  
shall take effect immediately upon the appointment of such successor Trustee.  
Section 7. REMOVAL OF TRUSTEES. Any Trustee may be removed from office at any time for any reason by  
action of the Board of Directors of the Association.  
Section 8. APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEES. In the event of the death. disqualification. disability.  
inability, refusal to act, removal, resignation forfeiture of office or other termination of office of any Trustee  
hereunder, a successor to fijl such vacancy shall be named and appointed forthwith by action of the Board of Directors  
of the Association. Written certification of such appointment shall be furnished to the Secretary of the Board of  
Trustees by the Board of Directors of the Association. Any successor Trustee upon his appointment as such and his  
acceptance in writing filed with the Secretary of the Board of Trustees shall become vested with all title, rights, powers,  
and duties of a Trustee hereunder with like effect as if originally named as a Trustee.  
Section 9. QUORUM AND VOTING. All action by the Board of Trustees hereunder shall be by majority vote  
of the Trustees attending a meeting of the Trustees at which a quorum is present, such quorum to consist of at least  
a majority of the whole Board of Trustees, and any action so taken shall have the same effect and force as if taken by  
all of the Trustees, provided, that action by the Trustees may also be taken by them in writing without a meeting,  
provided, that in such case there shall be unanimous concurrence in such action, evidenced in writing by all of said  
Trustees then in office.  
Section 10. NOTICE OF MEETINGS. The Chairman or the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Trustees may call a  
meeting of the Trustees at any time by giving at least five (5) days written notice by registered mail of the time and  
place thereof to the remaining Trustees. Any two (2) Trustees may cal! a meeting of the Trustees at any time by giving  
like notice. Meetings of the Trustees may also be held at any time without notice if all of the Trustees are present or  
consent thereto in writing.  
Section 11. TERM OF TRUSTEES. Each Trustee or Successor Trustee hereunder shall serve for a term of three  
(3) years or until his death, incapacity, resignation, forfeiture or other termination of office, provided, however, that  
two (2) of the original Trustees, as designated by the Board of Directors of the Association shall serve for a term of  
two (2) years only, and two of the original Trustees designated by the Board of Directors of the Association shall serve  
for a term of one (1) year only. The Association shal! record in its minutes the names of those Trustees serving  
abbreviated terms and the respective length of their terms.  
Section 12. BOOKS AND RECORDS. The Board of Trustees shall keep true and accurate books of account and  
records of all their transactions, which shall be audited annually, or more often as may be required by action of the  
Trustees by acertified public accountant. A duly signed and certified copy thereof shall be delivered to the Association  
and copies thereof made available to any contributing Employer.  
Section 13. EMOLUMENTS AND EXPENSES OF TRUSTEES. No Trustee shall receive or accept any  
compensation or other emolument from the Foundation or other source, for any service rendered in connection with  
the Trust, except that Trustees shall be entitled to be reimbursed by the the Fund for all reasonable and necessary  
expenses which they may incur in attendance at meetings of Trustees or the performance of their duties as such,  
including, among other things, all expenses they may defend or prosecute any action or actions brought against  
or by them, individually or collectively, by virtue of serving or having served as a Trustee hereof.  
Section 14. EXONERATION OF TRUSTEES. No Trustee hereof shal! be liable for any act of omission or  
commission by or of any other Trustee or Trustees or of any agent, employee, attorney, auditor, accountant or  
administrator selected by the Trustees with reasonable care, nor shall any Trustee be individually or personally liable  
for any obligation of the Trustees acting as such, or for any obligation of the Foundation or for his own acts or failure  
to act, unless said acts or failure to act shal] have been with intent to defraud the Foundation. In the event any Trustee  
hereunder shall become personally liable in damages arising out of any civil action brought against him by virtue of  
any action of the Trustees, hereunder, he shall be saved harmless by and reimbursed by the Foundation for all costs,  
expenses and/or the amount of any judgement rendered against him.  
Said Trustees shall not be liable for acting upon any papers, documents, data or information believed by them to  
be genuine and accurate and to be made, executed and delivered by proper parties, nor shall they be liable for any act  
concerning which they relied upon the opinion of legal, accounting or other professional council.  
Section 15. MANNER OF VOTING. Each Trustee shall have one (1) vote upon al! matters.  
Section 16. RULES AND REGULATIONS. The Board of Trustees may establish such rules and regulations  
governing procedures of the Board, including designation of necessary committees and procedures for the adminis-  
tration of the Foundation.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### Amendments  
Section 1. METHOD OF AMENDMENT. This Agreement and Declaration of Trust may be amended at any time  
and from time to time by a majority vote of all of the Trustees constituting the then Board of Trustees provided that  
no amendment shall divert the Foundation funds, or any part thereof, to purposes other than those herein provided,  
unless consented to and ratified by action of the Board of Directors of the Association.  
Section 2. NOTICE REQUIRED. Any action by the Trustees to amend this Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
pursuant to the foregoing provision shall be taken at a meeting called in accordance with the provisions of Section 10  
of Article VI hereof.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### Termination of Foundation  
Section 1. METHOD OF TERMINATION. This Trust may also be terminated by a duly adopted resolution of the  
Board of Directors of the Association, ratified by a majority of its members.  
Section 2. APPLICATION OF FUND ON TERMINATION. In the event of termination of this Trust for any  
reason, the Trustees, after payment of all expenses, shall pay over any assets remaining, if any, to a charitable fund  
selected by the Board of Directors of the Association.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### Contributions  
Section 1, to this Foundation may be accepted from contractors obligated under the collective  
bargaining agreement and others. Further, the Trustees shall have the power to set the rules and regulations and  
determine which such remittances shall be made to it.  
### ARTICLE X  
### Miscellaneous Provisions  
Section 1. LIMITATION ON BENEFICIAL INTEREST. No employee, employer or beneficiary of any plan  
approved hereunder for payment of funds hereof, or any person claiming by or through any of the same, or otherwise  
or any person, corporation or Association shall have any vested right, title or interest in or to the Foundation funds  
or any part thereof.  
Section 2, DECISIONS OF TRUSTEES. Al! decisions or the Trustees hereunder upon any matter within the scope  
of their authority shall be final and binding upon all persons.  
Section 3, DEALING WITH TRUSTEES. No person, partnership, corporation or Association dealing with the  
Trustees shal} be obliged to see to the application of any funds or property of the Foundation or to see that the terms  
of this Trust have been complied with, or be obliged to inquire into the necessity or expediency of any act of the  
Trustees, and every instrument executed by the Trustees shall be conclusive in favor of any person, partnership,  
corporation or Association relying thereon that at the time of the delivery of such instrument the Trust was in full force  
and effect; that said instrument was executed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Trust; and that the  
Trustees were duly authorized and empowered to execute such instrument.  
Section 4. MISSOURI LAW TO GOVERN. This Trust is accepted by the Trustees in the State of Missouri, and  
all questions pertaining to its validity, construction and administration shall be determined in accordance with the laws  
of that State.  
Section 5. USE OF WORDS HEREIN. Whenever any words are used in this Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
in the masculine gender, they shail be construed as though they were also used in the feminine or neuter gender in all  
situations applicable, and whenever used in the singular form they shall be so construed as though they were also in  
plural form in all situations applicable, and vice versa.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, the Contractors Painting and Decorators Association, Inc. St. Louis  
Chapter No. 2 and the undersigned trustees have signed this Agreement and Declaration of Trust, the undersigned  
Trustees thereby evidencing their acceptance of their respective trusteeships hereunder and their agreement to act  
hereunder, ali the day and year first above written.  
### THE CONTRACTORS PAINTING AND DECORATORS  
### ASSOCIATION, INC., ST. LOUIS CHAPTER NO. 2  
Donald J. Herbster Robert A. Latta Bernard Slattery  
R. Koslow Martin P. Walsh William I. Knopf  
“Association” John H. Hinrichs R. Koslow  
“Trustees”  
### AMENDMENT TO  
### ST. LOUIS CONTRACTING PAINTERS AND DECORATORS  
### FOUNDATION TRUST AGREEMENT  
### Come now the Trustees of the ST LOUIS CONTRACTING PAINTERS AND DECORATORS FOUNDATION  
and amend the Trust Agreement as follows:  
Article V, Section 3, Investments, is deleted in whole and replaced as follows:  
“Section 3. INVESTMENTS. The Trustees may hold and invest and reinvest  
such monies as said Trustees, in their sole discretion, determine are not required  
for current expenditures, in obligations of the United States of America in any  
amount; in savings accounts or time deposits in banks and savings accounts and  
savings and loan associations up to the limit of insurance of the institution; and up  
to 25% of such money in a noninsured account, and in such stock, bonds, mutual  
funds, secured real estate loans and other investments as said Trustees,  
in their sole discretion, deem safe and appropriate for investments for prudent  
men."  
### IN WITNESS WHEREOF. the undersigned Trustees of the ST. LOUIS CONTRACTING PAINTERS AND  
DECORATORS FOUNDATION have by their signatures accepted this amendment to the St. Louis Contracting  
Painters and Decorators Foundation Trust Agreement.  
### WALTER BAZAN  
### H. FRED PHILIPP. JR.  
### ROBERT A. LATTA  
### FRANCIS R. WOJEHOWSKI  
### ROBERT M. HEROLD  
### RANDAL FREESE  
### TRUSTEES  
### AMENDMENT TO  
### ST. LOUIS CONTRACTING PAINTERS AND DECORATORS  
### FOUNDATION TRUST AGREEMENT  
### Come now the Trustees of the ST. LOUIS CONTRACTING PAINTERS AND DECORATORS FOUNDATION  
and amend the Trust Agreement as follows:  
Article [IX - Contributions is deleted and the following is submitted in its place:  
Section 1. Contributions to this Foundation may be accepted from contractors obligated under the collective  
bargaining agreement and others. Further, the Trustees shall have the power to set the rules and regulations and  
determine which such remittances shall be made to it.  
### IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned Trustees of the ST. LOUIS CONTRACTING PAINTERS AND  
DECORATORS FOUNDATION have by their signatures accepted this amendment to the St. Louis Contracting  
Painters and Decorators Foundation Trust Agreement.  
### ROBERT A. LATTA  
### MARTIN P. WALSH  
### WILLIAM I. KNOPF  
### BERNARD SLATTERY  
### R. KOSLOW  
### JOHN H. HINRICHS  
### “TRUSTEES”  
### THIRD AMENDMENT TO TRUST AGREEMENT  
### AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST ESTABLISHING ST.  
### LOUIS CONTRACTING PAINTERS AND DECORATORS FOUNDATION  
This Third Amendment dated February 23, 1988, to the Trust Agreement; Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
Establishing St. Louis Contracting Painters and Decorators Foundation dated July 30, 1974, as amended through the  
date hereof (said Agreement, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the “Trust Agreement”) is made by the Trustees  
(the “Trustees”) of the St. Louis Contracting Painters and Decorators Foundation (the ‘““Foundation’).  
Pursuant to Section | of Article VIL of the Trust Agreement, the Trustees hereby amend Paragraph (a) of Section  
[ of Article V of the Trust Agreement (said Article V entitled “Use and Application of Foundation”) to read as follows:  
(a) To pay and provide for the payment of all reasonable and necessary  
expenses of handing and administering the Foundation, including, but not limited  
to, all expenses incurred in connection with the establishment of the Foundation,  
the employment of administrative, accounting, actuarial, legal, clerical and other  
expert assistance, the purchase, renting or leasing of such premises and the  
purchasing or leasing of all such materials, supplies and equipment (all of which  
foregoing acts and things the Trustee shall have power to do) as the Trustees, in  
their discretion, find necessary or appropriate in the performance of their duties and  
the administration of the Foundation.  
In WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned Trustees of the Foundation have by their signature accepted this  
amendment to the Trust Agreement as of the date first written above.  
### WALTER BAZAN, SR.  
### RUSSELL COLBY  
### ROBERT HEROLD  
### JOSEPH WARD  
### JOHN BENDER  
### FRANK WOJEHOWSKI  
### BYLAWS OF THE ST. LOUIS PAINTERS AND  
### DECORATORS JOINT BOARD, INC.  
### I  
### ST. LOUIS PAINTERS AND DECORATORS JOINT BOARD, INC.  
The St. Louis Painters and Decorators Joint Board, Inc. (hereinafter the “Joint Board”) is a pro forma decree  
corporation originally established on January 17, 1951. These Bylaws shall govern the operation and administration  
of the Joint Board.  
### II  
### BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
The Board of Directors shall have the control, direction and management of the affairs and finances of the Joint  
Board. The Board of Directors shall consist of eight Directors. There shall be two classes of Directors. Four Directors  
shall be selected by the Contracting Painters and Decorators Association, Chapter No. 2 (hereinafter “the Associa-  
tion”) and four Directors shall be selected by Painters District Council No. 2 (hereinafter “the Union”). The  
Association and the Union shall each select two Alternate Directors. Each Director shall hold office for a one-year  
term and may thereafter be selected to serve for successive one-year terms. The Association may remove a Director  
selected by it, and the Union may remove a Director selected by it during his term of service by providing 30 days’  
advance written notice to the Joint Board. The Director subject of such notification shall be deemed removed from  
office on the thirtieth day following receipt of the notification at the office of the Joint Board. The Association or the  
Union, as the case may be, shall select a successor Director within 30 days after the effective date of the removal of  
a Director. The removal of a Director and/or the failure of the Association or Union to replace a removed Director shall  
not prohibit the remaining Directors from transacting business in accordance with these Bylaws.  
lit  
### OFFICERS  
The Board of Directors shall elect from their members a President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer. The  
President and Treasurer shall be selected from the class of Directors elected by the Association, and the Vice-President  
and Secretary shall be elected from the class of Directors selected by the Union. Officers shall serve for terms of one  
year and may be elected to successive one-year terms.  
The President shal] preside as chairman at al] meetings of the Board of Directors. The Vice-President shal] serve  
as the chairman of a meeting of the Board of Directors in the absence of the President. The Secretary shall keep the  
minutes of all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall provide notice of meetings of the Board of Directors as  
provided in Article IV of these Bylaws. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the records of the Joint Board. The  
Secretary shall co-sign all checks along with the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall keep, or cause to be kept, full and  
accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements of the Joint Board. He shall co-sign checks along with the Secretary  
for all disbursements approved by the Board of Directors. He shall make a report of receipts and disbursements to the  
Board of Directors at any time requested.  
The officers may exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as are delegated to them by the Board  
of Directors.  
### IV  
### MEETINGS  
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be on the second Tuesday of each month. The President, the  
Secretary or any three Directors may call a special meeting of the Board of Directors. Notice of the time and place  
of cach regular meeting shall be mailed, telegraphed or personally delivered to each Director and Alternate at his home  
or place of business. Notice of a special meeting of the Board of Directors stating the date, time, place and purpose  
or purposes of the special mecting shall be mailed, telegraphed or hand-delivered to each Director and Alternate  
Director at his home or place of business by the party or parties calling the special meeting at least five days prior to  
the date designated for the special meeting. The Directors may by unanimous written consent waive the notice  
requirements of this Article as to any regular or special meeting.  
A quorum for the transaction of business shall exist when at least six Directors or Alternates are present at a regular  
or special meeting, provided that at least three Directors or Alternates selected by the Association and three Directors  
or Alternates selected by the Union are present.  
Alternate Directors shall be entitied to attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall be entitled to cast  
a vote on any question before the Joint Board only in the absence of a Director of the same class. When voting on any  
question before the Joint Board, the class of Directors appointed by the Association and the class of Directors  
appointed by the Union shai) at all times have equal voting strength irrespective of the number of Directors present  
and voting. Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, decisions of the Joint Board shall be by majority vote.  
Vv  
### POWERS OF THE BOARD; HEARINGS  
The Joint Board shall have the authority to decide, adjust and remedy disputes between the Union and any  
Employer party to a collective bargaining agreement incorporating these Bylaws and to make final and binding  
interpretations of the collective bargaining agreement in connection therewith. The Jotnt Board shall have the power  
to summon before it and to question and examine any Employer or the Union.  
The Joint Board shall have the power to require of any Employer or the Union the production of any records deemed  
by the Board to be relevant to any case where an alleged violation of the collective bargaining agreement is involved.  
In addition, but not by way of where it is alleged that an Emptoyer has not paid wages and/or fringe benefits  
required by the collective bargaining agreement or has failed to file timely reports concerning the employees in its  
employ, the Joint Board has the authority to require such Employer to produce its cash disbursement records, payroll  
tax returns, payroll time cards and related records, reports to labor organizations or trust funds, bank statements  
including cancelled checks and general ledgers.  
The Joint Board shall conduct a hearing with respect to any grievance referred to it pursuant to a collective  
bargaining agreement between an Employer and the Union. The Joint Board shall summon the charged party to appear  
before it by providing the charged party with written notification of the date, time and place of the hearing on such  
grievance. Notice of hearing shall be sent to the charged party at least 15 days prior to the date set for the hearing. The  
charging party shall receive a copy of the notice of hearing.  
The faiture of a charged party who has been notified of a grievance in accordance with the preceding paragraph  
to appear at the hearing shall constitute a waiver of that party’s right to be present, and notwithstanding the failure of  
the charged party to appear, the Board shall have full power to decide and remedy the grievance.  
A majority decision of the Joint Board shail be final and binding on the parties to the grievance. Where itis decided  
by the Board that the collective bargaining agreement has been violated, the Board is empowered to provide an  
appropriate remedy including, but not limited to, the assessment of damages and/or the assessment of liquidated  
damages.  
Except in the case of a grievance involving disciplinary action against an employce, the charging party shall first  
present its evidence. Thereafter, the charged party shall submit its evidence. In the case of a grievance involving  
disciplinary action against an employce, the employer shall first present its evidence.  
Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to grievance hearings before the Joint Board. The Joint Board, however,  
shall have the authority to exclude evidence as it deems appropriate.  
  
Both the charged party and the charging party shall receive written notice of any grievance decision of the Joint  
Board.  
The Joint Board shat] have authority to prescribe rules and regutations with respect to the conduct of grievance  
hearings.  
### VI  
### FUNDING  
The Joint Board shall be funded by contributions from employers as provided by the collective bargaining  
agreement. Additionally, amounts assessed as liquidated damages shall be utilized to defray the costs of the operation  
of the Joint Board.  
The Joint Board shall have the authority to make such expenditures as it deems necessary to the performance of  
its obligations and duties.  
Vil  
### NO INDIVIDUAL LIABILITY  
No Director or Alternate Director of the Joint Board shall be held liable by any party for any conduct within the  
scope of his duties as a Director or Alternate Director of the Joint Board.  
Vill  
### AMENDMENTS  
The Board of Directors shall have the sole right to adopt amendments to these Bylaws.  
### IX  
### CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY  
It is intended that these Bylaws be construed and applied consistent with the National Labor Relations Act, as  
amended, the Labor Management Relations Act, as amended, and other provisions of the law.  
If any provision or application of these Bylaws should be declared illegal or invalid, such declaration of illegality  
or invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of these Bylaws unless the continued operation of the other provisions  
of these Bylaws would be impossible. These Bylaws are adopted effective February 8, 1983.  
### ASSOCIATION DIRECTORS UNION DIRECTORS  
### PRESIDENT RICHARD KOSLOW SECRETARY HERB FISHER  
### WALTER BAZAN JOSEPH SHATRO  
### RANDALL F. FREESE JAMES B. COX  
### JOSEPH WARD  
### AMENDMENT TO THE BYLAWS OF THE ST. LOUIS  
### PAINTERS AND DECORATORS JOINT TRADE BOARD  
The Board of Directors of the St. Louis Painters and Decorators Joint Trade Board hereby adopts the following  
amendment to the Bylaws of the St. Louis Painters and Decorators Joint Board, fnc.:  
The first sentence of Article IV of the Bylaws is hereby deleted and replaced  
by the following provision:  
“Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be on the second Tuesday of  
January, April, July and October of each year.”  
This amendment shall become effective April 9, 1985.  
### DATE DATE  
### RANDALL FREESE 4/11/85 RICHARD BRYAN 4/11/85  
### ROBERT HEROLD 4/11/85 IRVIN KEY 4/11/85  
### WILLIAM B. VOORHEES 4/11/85 JAMES E. ENGEL 4/11/85  
### FRANCIS R. WOJEHOWSKI = 4/11/85 MARTIN BERGERON 4/11/85  
### AMENDMENT TO THE BYLAWS OF THE ST. LOUIS  
### PAINTERS AND DECORATORS JOINT BOARD, INC.  
Pursuant to Article VU of the Bylaws of the St. Louis Painters and Decorators Joint Board, Inc., the Directors  
hereby adopt the following amendment to said Bylaws to be effective July 12, 1988:  
Vv:  
Article V is hereby amended by adding the following language at the conclusion of the first paragraph of Article  
The Joint Board shall also have the authority to sponsor, conduct and/or assist in  
meetings or negotiations between Painters District Council No. 2 and employers  
having a collective bargaining relationship with said Union for the purpose of  
discussing matters of mutual interest to the Union and the employers but  
not limited to grievances or disputes arising under the collective bargaining  
agreement, negotiations for a new collective bargaining agreement and amend-  
ments to an existing collective bargaining agreement. Expenditures for sponsor-  
ing, conducting or assisting in any of the aforesaid meetings and negotiations shall  
be made at the discretion of the Directors of the Joint Trade Board.  
### ASSOCIATION DIRECTORS DATE UNION DIRECTORS DATE  
RANDY FREESE 7/12/88 JIM SMITH 7/12/88  
### WALTER BAZAN, JR. 7/12/88 RICHARD BRYAN 7/12/88  
### WALTER BAZAN, SR. T/12/88 IRVIN KEY 7/12/88  
### ROY HAGEMEYER 7/12/88 MARTIN BERGERON — 7/12/88