2012 - 2015  
### AGREEMENT  
Between  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISIONS  
### ALBANY  
### ROCHESTER REGION  
### CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF NEW YORK STATE, LLC  
And  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS  
### LOCAL UNION  
NO. 158  
### AFFILIATED WITH THE AFL-CIO  
HH 158  
7/18/12  
### LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS  
### OF NEW YORK STATE, LLC  
10 Airline Drive, Suite 203  
Albany, New Y ork 12205-1025  
Telephone: (518) 456-1134  
FAX: (518) 456-1198  
### INDEX  
### ARTICLE  
### Articles Of  
I. Purpose and  
II. Territorial  
### III. UNION  
IV. Grievance and Arbitration  
V 00...  
### VI. FOULS Of  
VIL. Paid Holidays and  
### VIL.  
IX. Master Mechanics, Maintenance Engineers,  
Field Shop  
X. Oilers ANd  
XI. Termination, Discharge, and  
XII. Bl@CtiOn  
### XII.  
### XIV.  
XV. Operation Of Well  
XVI. Pile Driving and Sand  
### XVII. SALCLY  
XVITI. Most Favored  
HH 158  
7/18/12 3  
### ARTICLE PAGE  
### XIX. Jurisdictional 17  
### XX. DUYAUION. 18  
### XXI. SAVINGS 18  
XXII. Fund 18  
XXITT. —-—- eee ees 20  
XXIV. Apprentice 21  
XXV. Nondiscrimination in Le  
XXVI. — Status Quo on Certain 22  
XXVII. Defense and Benefit Fund and/or Dues Deduction... . 23  
XXVIII. Owner Mandated Requirements... ............ ce eee eee 23  
XXIX. Wage Rates and 23  
XXX. Complete A 29  
Individual 30-31  
HH 158  
7/18/12 4A  
### ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into the 1“ day of April, 2012, by and between the LABOR  
### RELATIONS DIVISION, ALBANY REGION, ROCHESTER REGION, CENTRAL NEW  
### YORK REGION, ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF NEW YORK STATE  
LLC (hereinafter referred to as the "Association") acting for and on behalf of its present and  
future members, (hereinafter called the "Employer') as parties of the first part, and the  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL UNION 158  
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union"), as party of the second part, and shall continue in full  
force and effect through the 31% day of March, 2015, unless changed by mutual consent as  
provided hereinafter and thereafter as provided by Article XX.  
Any one of the individual parties comprising either the Parties of the First or Second Parts  
may, without joining with him the other Parties, make any claim, invoke any right or take any  
action proper to be taken hereunder in order to enforce any right given by this Agreement. It is  
intended that every right given to either Party under this Agreement shall be given individually  
to every one of the Individual Parties making up the Parties to this Agreement enforcing the  
same as though such party were named as the sole party to this A greement.  
### ARTICLE I PURPOSE AND PRINCIPLES  
1. THIS AGREEMENT is entered into to prevent strikes and lockouts; to facilitate  
peaceful adjustment of grievances and disputes between Employer and Employee; to prevent  
waste, unnecessary and unavoidable delays and the results through them to the Employer of costs  
and expense and to the employee of loss of wages; to enable the Employer to secure at all times  
sufficient forces of skilled workmen; to provide as far as possible for the continuous employment  
of labor; to provide that employment hereunder shall be in accordance with conditions and at  
wages herein agreed upon and by reason of this Agreement and the purpose and intent thereof, to  
bring about stable conditions in the Industry, keep costs of work in the Industry as low as  
possible consistent with fair wages and proper working conditions, as provided for hereunder;  
and further to establish and set up the necessary procedure for amicable adjustment of all  
disputes or questions that may arise between the Parties, or any of them, so that the foregoing  
purposes may be brought about and accomplished.  
2. Both Parties to the Agreement believe that Uniform Agreement, if adopted by the Unions  
and the Employers engaged in Heavy and Highway Construction would further the interests of  
that Industry, and further believe that such a Uniform Agreement should contain the following  
principles:  
(a) That there should be no limitations to the amount of work a man shall perform  
during his working day, it being understood that the workman shall perform a fair  
and honest day’s work.  
(b) That there shall be no restriction of the use of machinery, tools or appliances  
HH 158  
7/18/12 9  
except as hereinafter modified by this Agreement.  
(c) | person shall have the right to interfere with the workmen during working  
hours.  
(d) If any of the Parties of the First Part engage in any class of work not embodied in  
Heavy and/or Highway Construction as hereinafter defined, then this A greement  
is of no force or effect on any such contract.  
3. The Employer agrees that he will not discipline or discharge any employee who refuses  
to cross a bona fide labor union picket line. The right of an employee to exercise this privilege  
Shall not be a violation of this Agreement and shall not subject the Employee to penalties.  
4. The Association and the Union named herein are negotiating agents for their present and  
future members. For any breach of this Agreement, the liability of the members of the  
Association and the Local Union shall be several and not joint and the liability of the Association  
shall only be that of negotiating agent without liability for the acts of its respective members.  
5. Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this Article are an integral part of this Agreement and all parties  
to the Agreement agree to abide by and be bound by the language contained in said sections.  
### ARTICLE II TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION  
1. The Territorial Jurisdiction covered by this Agreement shall be the counties of: Albany,  
Broome, Chenango, Clinton, Columbia, Northern part of Dutchess (to the northern boundary line  
of City of Poughkeepsie then due east to Route 115 to Bedelt Road then east along Bedelt Road  
to VanWagner Road then north along VanWagner Road to Bower Road then east along Bower  
Road to Rte. 44 east to Route 343 then along Route 343 east to the northern boundary of Town  
of Dover Plains and east along the northern boundary of Town of Dover Plains to Connecticut),  
Essex, Franklin, Fulton, Greene, Hamilton, Montgomery, Otsego, Rensselaer, Saratoga,  
Schenectady, Schoharie, Tioga, Warren and Washington Allegany, Chemung, Livingston,  
Monroe, Ontario, Schuyler, Steuben, Wayne, Y ates, and the Eastern part of Genesee (including  
the City of Batavia) Cayuga, Cortland, Herkimer, Jefferson, Lewis, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga,  
Oswego, St. Lawrence, Seneca and Tompkins.  
2. For the purposes of this contract the stated jurisdiction shall be unchanged for the term of  
this contract.  
### BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES  
District 106  
Daniel McGraw, Business Manager  
William Walsh, District Manager  
Jeff Kellogg, Business Representative  
Mark Mincher, Business Representative  
Robert Aikens, Business Representative  
HH 158  
7/18/12 6  
Michael Lyons, Labor Relations Specialist  
Address:  
44 Hannay Lane  
Glenmont, NY 12077  
(518) 431-0600  
FAX: (518) 431-0726  
District 545  
Theron Hogle, District Manager  
Karl Button, Business Representative  
William Shelly, Business Representative  
Address:  
127 East Glen Ave  
syracuse, NY 13205  
(315) 492-1752  
FAX: (315) 469-7870  
District 832  
Richard Ross, District Manager  
Thomas Schweizer, Business Representative  
Grant Malone, Business Representative  
Paul McCormick, Business Representative  
Joseph Agnello, Business Representative  
John Tarasuk, Business Representative  
Address:  
P.O. Box 93310  
Rochester, NY 14692  
(585) 272-9890  
FAX: (585) 272-7785  
### ARTICLE Il] UNION SECURITY  
1. It is agreed that on the eighth (8) day following the beginning of employment of a  
workman or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, membership in the Union  
shall be a condition of employment. The hiring of new workmen and the discharging of  
employees upon the request of the Union shall be in accord with the Labor Management  
Relations Act of 1947, as amended.  
2. In hiring new employees, the Employer shall give the Local Union equal opportunity  
with all other sources to refer suitable applicants.  
3. Authorized representatives of the Union shall be allowed to visit jobs during working  
HH 158  
7/18/12 7  
hours to interview Employer and employees, but in no way shall interfere with or hinder progress  
of the work. Said representatives shall notify the field office, if possible, of their presence on the  
job.  
### ARTICLE IV GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURES  
1. During the term of this Agreement, neither Party shall order or permit any lockout, strike  
or other work stoppage or slowdown. Further, the Union will not aid, support or permit  
unauthorized strikes, slowdowns or work stoppages by its members.  
2. Grievance Procedure: All grievances or disputes involving any controversy, dispute or  
misunderstanding arising as to the meaning, application or observance of any provisions of this  
Agreement shall be handled in the manner hereinafter set forth.  
Step 1. All grievances must be made known in writing to the other party within seven  
(7) working days after the reason for such grievance has occurred. An  
authorized representative of the Union shall first submit a written grievance to  
the Job Superintendent, or his duly authorized representative. The authorized  
representative of the Union of the Employee or employees involved shall be  
present at any meeting between the Job Superintendent and such employee or  
employees. The Job Superintendent or his duly authorized representative  
must make a written disposition of the matter within forty-eight (48) hours  
after the submission of such written grievance thereto.  
Step 2. If the disposition of the matter by the Job Superintendent or his duly  
authorized representative is not satisfactory, the matter must be taken up by  
the Business Agent, and representative of the Employer with authority to act  
within forty-eight (48) hours of the written disposition set forth in Step 1.  
Step 3. ‘If the disposition of the matter in Step 2 is not satisfactory, the Business  
Manager shall attempt to resolve the matter with the Labor Relation Division  
designate, AGC within forty-eight (48) hours after Step 2.  
3. Arbitration: If Step 3 is not successful, the grievant shall request a list of seven (7)  
arbitrators from any one of the following sources: (1) the Federal Mediation and Conciliation  
Service; (2) the American Arbitration for final and binding decision. Such request  
shall be no later than seventy-two (72) hours after Step 3. Both parties agree to submit to such  
arbitration and be bound by and follow the decision rendered. Failure to do so on the part of the  
grievant shall deem the grievance as closed. The arbitrator shall be selected by  
eliminating names from the seven (7) person list until one remains, the grievant or his  
representative shall strike the first name.  
The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, modify, detract from, or  
alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement or any amendment or supplement thereto or to  
add new provisions of this Agreement or any amendment or supplement thereto. If the arbitrator  
should determine that the grievance is not covered by this Agreement, he shall return the  
grievance to the parties without decision and the grievance shall be closed. In such a case, the  
HH 158  
7/18/12 8  
costs, if any, shall be borne by the grievant.  
4, Violations concerning wages, hours, and all fringe benefit payments shall not be subject  
to the grievance procedure. In such cases, the Union shall give three (3) working days notice to  
the Employer that the Union will withdraw its men from the Employer's service. If the  
Employer contends there is a question of fact regarding the alleged violation, he may file for  
arbitration within the aforesaid three (3) working days. When a request for arbitration has been  
initiated, there shall be no work stoppage pending resolution of the dispute pursuant to this  
Article. Work jurisdiction, that is, disputes with respect to whether one group of employees or  
another group of employees shall perform certain work on the project is expressly not arbitrable  
under this contract.  
9. The costs of arbitration, which shall include the fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall  
be borne by the Company in case its principal contention is rejected by the arbitrator, and by the  
Union in case its principal contention is rejected by the arbitrator, except, however, that each  
party shall pay all the fees of its own representatives and witnesses. Any dispute as to whose  
principal contention is rejected shall be determined by the arbitrator. In the case that both  
parties’ principal contention is upheld in part, the arbitrator shall designate what part of the costs  
are to be bore by which party according to the relative merits of each party’s position.  
### ARTICLE V DEFINITION  
1. This Agreement shall apply to all Heavy and Highway Construction which terms are  
defined as being all work performed outside of a building, including, but not limited to:  
Hydroelectric projects, sewage treatment projects, lift and pumping stations for the movement of  
treatment of sewage, water pollution control treatment plants, water supply, drainage sanitation,  
reclamation, irrigation and flood control projects; dams, reservoirs, docks, piers, jetties, locks,  
dikes, levees, channels, breakwaters, harbors, airports, railroads, highways, streets, bridges and  
similar structures; pile driving, abutments, retaining walls, power plants, transmission lines, duct  
lines, pipe lines, sewers, water mains, industrial sites, school sites, and athletic fields, including  
the installation, operating, maintenance and disassembly of construction equipment and plants  
used in connection with and servicing the aforementioned work, excepting repairs of such nature  
that they cannot be made by the Employees.  
2. Offsite gravel or material pits, the material from which is to be used for a particular  
project covered by this Agreement shall be operated under the terms of this Agreement when the  
pit is owned, leased, operated by or under the control of the Prime Contractor or another  
corporation or company of which the majority ownership is held by the Prime Contractor or its  
majority owner or owners.  
### ARTICLE VI HOURS OF WORK  
1. For purposes of determining overtime eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work; forty  
(40) hours shall constitute a week’s work.  
2. Normal workday shall consist of eight (8) hours with one-half (2) hour for lunch. The  
HH 158  
7/18/12 9  
starting time shall be set by the Contractor, which can include flexible starting times by mutual  
agreement between the Employer and the Union.  
3. On operations requiring two (2) shifts, the shift shall be at least eight (8) hours each and  
scheduled of equal duration. It is understood that there is no guarantee, that on a given day, one  
shift might not vary due to weather, equipment breakdown or changes in operation schedules.  
HH 158  
7/18/12  
On three (3) shift operations, the first or day shift, shall be of eight (8) hours  
duration; the second shift shall be of seven and one-half (712) hours duration,  
and the third shift shall be of seven (7) hours duration. Each shift shall receive  
eight (8) hours pay.  
On three shift operations, the third shift shall be considered as falling on the same  
day of the week as the first and second shift.  
On multiple shift work, the work week shall start not earlier than 5:00 am. The  
Contractor shall set the starting time.  
Special cases of starting time may be set by mutual consent.  
All time worked in excess of the normal shift shall be considered overtime.  
There shall be a twenty-four (24) hour guarantee, Monday through Saturday. If  
an employee is called out to work, he is guaranteed twenty-four (24) hours or the  
number of eight (8) hour days remaining between the day of hiring and Friday,  
whichever is less. The guarantee may be terminated by layoff prior to completion  
of the twenty-four (24) hour guarantee. In such case, the employee shall receive  
at least eight (8) hours pay for each day, from date of hire until the date of shut-  
down or layoff. Any employee who reports for work at the regularly appointed  
starting time, unless he has been notified at least eight (8) hours previous to the  
regular starting time on the day his services are not required, shall be entitled to  
show-up of two (2) hours at the straight time rate. The employee shall remain on  
the job for the two (2) hour period unless otherwise directed by the employer.  
Two (2) hour show-up time shall apply toward the twenty-four (24) hour  
guarantee. For example, if an employee is called to work on Tuesday and laid off  
on Thursday, he shall receive at least eight (8) hours pay for Tuesday, at least  
eight (8) hours pay for Wednesday, and at least two (2) hours pay for Thursday.  
If an employee is called out to work on Saturday, the provisions of Section 7 shall  
apply.  
A paid holiday not worked may not be used as a basis for make-up time. If a man  
takes time off for his own personal business, his guaranteed work week will be  
reduced by the number of hours or days off.  
One and one-half (1'/ ) times the rates set forth in this agreement shall be paid for  
all work in excess of eight (8) hours per day and in excess of forty (40) hours per  
week.  
10  
(b) All work performed on Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half  
(1%).  
(Cc) If an employee is ordered out Saturday and his services are not used, he shall be  
entitled to a show-up time of two (2) hours at time and one-half. Such employee  
shall remain on the job for two (2) hour period unless otherwise directed by the  
Employer.  
(d) If such employee reports on the job and works in excess of two (2) hours on a  
Saturday, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at time and one-half (11).  
(e) If such employee works in excess of four (4) hours on a Saturday, he shall receive  
pay for actual hours worked that day at time and one-half (114).  
(f) Show-up time/standby time- actual hours worked shall apply toward the twenty-  
four (24) guarantee. Premium pay in excess of the actual hourly rate of pay shall  
not apply towards the twenty-four guarantee.  
8. Four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days may be worked at straight time Monday thru  
Thursday, unless prohibited by law. Friday can be a make-up day at ten (10) hours per day  
straight time because of inclement weather.  
9, FLEXTIME. With respect to any project that is 100% federally funded, awarded by a  
Federal Agency, the payment of overtime after eight (8) hours will not apply. Overtime will  
only be required to be paid after forty (40) hours.  
10. SINGLE IRREGULAR WORK SHIFT: A single irregular work shift can start any  
time from 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 am. All employees who work a single irregular work shift on  
government mandated night work shall be paid an additional $2.00 per hour. Section 10 will be  
effective for work bid on or after July 1, 2000. It is understood and agreed that if the single  
irregular work shift language is not included in the NYS Department of Labor prevailing wage  
rate schedules, the premium is waived.  
ARTICLE VII District 106 & 545  
### PAID HOLIDAYS AND SUNDAYS  
1. (a) Paid holidays to be observed are Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Day, irrespective of the day  
of the week on which the holiday may fall. If the holiday falls on Sunday, it will  
be celebrated on Monday. In the event that men work on this Sunday holiday,  
they shall be paid double time. In the event that men work on Monday, they shall  
be compensated at double time plus the holiday pay. Accordingly, the Monday  
following the Sunday is treated as the holiday.  
(b) If the holiday falls on a Saturday, it will be celebrated on Saturday. Employees  
who work a Saturday holiday shall be paid double time plus the holiday pay.  
(C) When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the Employer has the option to either work  
HH 158  
7/18/12 11  
Friday and pay Saturday as the holiday, or, not work Friday and pay the day in  
lieu of the holiday.  
2. (a) Any employee laid off within the week in which a holiday falls shall receive  
holiday pay, provided the holiday occurs after the date of hire.  
(b) | Holiday pay shall be paid at the employee’s regular classification.  
3. A man must work the scheduled working day before and the scheduled working day after  
a holiday to receive holiday pay. However, an employee not able to report because of proven  
sickness, death in immediate family, or accident shall be entitled to holiday pay.  
4, If aman is ordered out and reports for work on a holiday, set forth in Section 1 above,  
and does not start, then he shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours straight time in addition to  
the straight time given for said paid holiday. If he starts work on a paid holiday, he shall be paid  
of eight (8) hours pay at double time plus the holiday pay.  
5. If an employee is ordered out to work on a Sunday and reports on the job but his services  
are not used, he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at straight time. If he reports on  
the job and does start to work on a Sunday, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at double time. If  
such employee works in excess of four (4) hours on Sunday, he shall be paid a minimum of eight  
(8) hours pay at double time.  
### DISTRICT 832 HOLIDAYS  
6. Holidays are unpaid unless worked. Unpaid holidays to be observed are Memorial Day,  
Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Years Day,  
irrespective of the day of the week on which the holiday may fall. If the holiday falls on Sunday,  
it will be celebrated on Monday. If an engineer, maintenance engineer or oiler is ordered out to  
work on a Sunday or the following Holidays - Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, New Y ear's Day, and reports on the job but his services are  
not used, he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at straight time. If he reports on the  
job and does start to work, he shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay plus actual hours  
worked at double time.  
### ARTICLE VIII PAY  
1. All wages under this Agreement shall be payable on the job every week. Not more than  
six (6) days pay shall be held back. Checks, pay stubs and pay envelopes shall show all  
information required by law, and shall show the name. This applies to layoff,  
termination, etc.  
2. If any employee is discharged or laid off or not paid on his regularly scheduled pay day,  
all accrued wages shall be due and paid immediately, except that an employee may be paid by  
check mailed within twenty-four (24) hours. If not mailed within twenty-four (24) hours, such  
employee shall be paid an additional $35.00 for each additional twenty-four (24) hour period the  
check was not mailed.  
HH 158  
7/18/12 12  
3. If the employee leaves his job, he shall not be entitled to receive his pay for such week  
until the regular pay day for such work week, and he shall not be entitled to any additional pay  
for returning to the job in order to collect such pay.  
4. Engineers and/or oilers, firemen or maintenance men shall not be laid off on a pay day  
for any reason, until they have received their pay.  
### ARTICLE IX MASTER MECHANICS, MAINTENANCE ENGINEERS,  
### AND FIELD SHOP FOREMEN  
1. For each Employer that employs nine (9) or more engineers excluding oilers on any one  
shift or one project, a Master Mechanic, competent for the work shall be employed to be  
responsible under the direction of the Employer for the routine performance of the work of  
operators, oilers, maintenance and repairs. The Master Mechanic will operate equipment at the  
discretion of the Employer until such time as the twelfth (12") engineer (excluding oilers) is  
employed. The Master Mechanic shall be selected by the Employer from among qualified  
applicants supplied by the local union having jurisdiction of the project unless otherwise  
mutually agreed upon. There shall be 100% mobility of the Master Mechanic, provided the  
Employer notifies the Union by telephone.  
2. Onjobs where no mechanics are employed, the repair work will be done by the man or  
men assigned to the machine(s), provided they are qualified to do the repair work.  
3. On jobs where a Master Mechanic is employed, repair work during the shift may be done  
by the crew under the general supervision of the Master Mechanic, provided they are qualified to  
do repair work.  
4. Maintenance Engineers shall be employed to do all pipe fitting in connection with  
hoisting and portable equipment. Maintenance Engineers shall also supervise and install  
wellpoint systems, shall be employed to do all maintenance burning and welding, preparing and  
maintaining of all equipment, including vibrators and tampers, tire repair, all gasoline, diesel or  
electric pumps and all such other work as by custom, has been performed by workmen under the  
supervision of the Master Mechanic.  
5. When a lubrication rig is used on a job, one man shall be designated maintenance  
lubrication engineer and he shall be responsible for greasing and other similar service work for  
all designated machines. Such engineer may be assigned other duties if the lubrication rig is not  
a full time job. The operators and oilers on the job may be directed to lubricate their own  
machines as part of their regular duties.  
6. Itshall be within the Employer’s discretion to hire a Field Shop Foreman and/or Assistant  
Master Mechanic where he deems it necessary. Where a Field Shop Foreman and/or an  
Assistant Master Mechanic is employed, his rate shall be one-dollar ($1.00) per hour over  
Classification A.  
7. Ownership of transportation shall not be a condition of employment. In the event an  
HH 158  
7/18/12 13  
Employer rents transportation from an employee covered by this Agreement, the terms of the  
rental shall be evidenced by a written memorandum, a copy of which will be furnished the Union  
upon request.  
### ARTICLE X OILERS AND FIREMEN  
1. An Oiler or Fireman or Second Engineer will be employed at the discretion of the  
Employer. Their duties shall be to assist the engineer in oiling, greasing, and preparing all  
machines, giving signals when necessary and changing of buckets and scale boxes. If the  
Employer determines that a second man is needed, he shall be an oiler. If a second employee is  
required by the Employer on an auger and/or post driver, he shall be an oiler. When one (1) man  
Operates said machine, he shall be an engineer. If additional help is required for assembly,  
disassembly, transport, they shall be operating engineers.  
2. Where helpers are required on the grease rig, they shall be Engineers.  
3. Oilers and maintenance greasemen shall service the machines during the regular lunch  
period. They shall take their lunch period either before or after the regular lunch period, if so  
directed by the Employer.  
4, The Oiler must have his assigned rig running at the shift starting time. The absence of  
the assigned oiler shall not prevent the operator from operating, when the absence of the oiler is  
beyond the control.  
5. Local 545 Oiler Article X shall remain in effect until March 31, 2013.  
### ARTICLE XI TERMINATION, DISCHARGE & MOBILITY  
1. After consultation with the Master Mechanic, the Employer is to be the judge as to the  
satisfactory performance of work but no employee may be discharged for defending the rights of  
any employee under the terms of this Agreement, or without just cause.  
2. Upon completion of his work, the Master Mechanic may be moved by the employer from  
one project to another within the local union’s jurisdiction. It is further agreed that upon  
completion of their work any employees covered by the terms of this Agreement may be moved  
by the Employer from one project to another within the local union’s jurisdiction.  
3. Engineers may be moved from one Local Union’s area to another’s as provided for in the  
KEY EMPLOY EE provision of the I.U.O.E. constitution.  
### ARTICLE XII ELECTION DAY  
All employees of the Employer shall be allowed time to vote on Election Day as required by  
law.  
HH 158  
7/18/12 14  
### ARTICLE XIII STEWARD  
The Union may appoint the Steward and they shall notify the Employer of their selection.  
The Steward shall not be laid off or discharged without the consent of the Union. He shall be  
given sufficient time to perform the duties assigned to him by the Union. In case of injury to  
employee(s) covered by this Agreement, the Steward shall be notified as soon as possible.  
### ARTICLE XIV MISCELLANEOUS  
1. There shall be unlimited changes on all machines. In the event of a change, the operator  
Shall receive the rate of the higher machine for the entire day.  
2. (a) Electric pumps or submersible pumps need not be manned. In the event that the  
Employer desires to man electric pumps or submersible pumps, an engineer shall be assigned.  
(b) Submersible electric pumps when used in lieu of well points.  
3. The maintenance and repair of pumps shall be the work of the Union.  
4. Prior to commencement of work, employees covered by this Agreement will be covered  
by Unemployment, D.B.L. and Workmen’s Compensation Insurance as required by law.  
9. The Employer shall obtain and keep in force public liability insurance for property  
damage and bodily injury in sufficient amounts as to provide protection or coverage for third  
party actions arising out of accidents occurring within the scope of the employment of his  
employees. Upon receipt of a summons and/or complaint involving a third party action arising  
out of an accident which occurred within the scope of an employee’s employment, the Employer  
shall provide the employee with a defense to such litigation and pay the cost thereof.  
6. The Employer agrees that as soon as a contract for a job has been awarded or within a  
reasonable time thereafter, but prior to the starting of any job, he will notify the Union of such  
job award, make arrangements and hold a prejob conference with the Union. This clause shall  
apply to every job or project undertaken by the Employer.  
7. Cleaning of tracks shall be done by the operator or oiler on his equipment; if such persons  
do not clean them, then the Employer shall assign such work to such other persons as he may  
elect.  
8. (a) Equipment covered by this contract being moved from one local union’s jurisdiction  
to that of another under its own power, shall be moved by employees from the area where the  
equipment had been working. Rented equipment moved by the Employer shall be covered by  
this clause.  
HH 158  
7/18/12 15  
(b) Reasonable expenses for meals, lodging and other actual necessary charges shall be  
reimbursed to such employees upon furnishing receipts to the Employer.  
9. An automated central mix concrete plant using an outside utility power source shall be  
manned by a Class A operator on the plant, and a Class D operator on the cement storage (2  
operators). An automated central mix concrete plant using a generator as its power source shall  
be manned by a Class A operator on the plant, a Class C operator on the generator, and a Class D  
operator on cement storage (3 operators).  
10. Hands-off equipment shall not be manned. In the event the Employer desires to man this  
equipment, it shall be the work of the Union. The maintenance and repair of all hands-off  
equipment shall be the work of the Union. Hands-off equipment includes heaters, compressors,  
pumps, welding machines, dust collectors, light plants, and generators.  
11. WORK AT HAZARDOUS WASTE SITE. When an Employer covered by this  
Agreement performs hazardous waste removal work on a State and/or Federally designated  
waste site, and where relevant State and/or Federal regulations require employees to be furnished  
and wear the equivalent of Level C or above forms of personal protection, then in such case an  
employee shall receive his regular hourly rate plus $2.50 per hour, if said premium is included in  
the prevailing wage rate schedules.  
12. Local 545 Miscellaneous Article XIV shall remain in effect until March 31, 2013.  
### ARTICLE XV OPERATION OF WELL POINTS  
Where well point system and well systems are required, the maintenance, installation and  
operation shall be the work of the Union. It shall be at the Employer s discretion whether the  
system will be manned.  
### ARTICLE XVI PILE DRIVING AND SAND DRAINS  
1. An operating engineer will assemble the crane, compressor, boiler, or electric or  
hydraulic power system (for electric or hydraulic extractor or hammer). Where any  
combination of and any number of pieces of equipment, including air compressors,  
welding machines, pumps, power pack for vibratory hammers, and any other typically  
hands-off equipment relating to pile driving are utilized, then two (2) operators at the  
Class A rate will be required, unless equipment is utilized through mutual agreement  
between the Union and the Employer which would only require one operator.  
2. An operating engineer will repair diesel hammer when out of leads and unhooked  
from cables.  
3. An operating engineer will replace load cables and run through leads.  
HH 158  
7/18/12 16  
### ARTICLE XVII SAFETY  
The Union and Employers agree that willful neglect by an employee to obey company  
safety rules and regulations or to obey safety rules, standards, and regulations prescribed  
pursuant to the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) or other governmental  
regulation or legislation or to use properly such safety devices or equipment as provided  
by the company may be just cause for discharge. A copy of the company safety program  
Shall be furnished each employee at time of employment. Employee’s signature shall be  
proof of acknowledgement. Discipline and/or termination may be challenged through the  
grievance and arbitration procedures of this A greement.  
DRUG/ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY: If an Employer or customer  
requires drug/alcohol testing as a condition of employment, the person referred to the  
Employer by the Union may be required to take such a test, providing the test meets  
Federal and State standards. Also, providing the Employee signs a permission card  
supplied by the Employer, a copy of which should be sent to the Union. A copy of the  
company substance abuse program shall be furmished to each employee at time of  
employment. signature shall be proof of acknowledgement.  
The parties to this agreement mutually agree to develop and implement procedures  
including compensation for pre-employment drug testing; to develop and implement  
procedures for OSHA certification of all employees; to establish a task force on the  
formation of a labor-management cooperation trust and to develop and implement  
procedures for workers compensation alternative dispute resolution.  
All employees shall observe the contractor's and/or owner’s rules and regulations  
including but not limited to, safety, drug testing, cell phone use, smoking, break time, etc.  
### ARTICLE XVIII - MOST FAVORED EMPLOYER  
1. If the Union enters into any agreement with any individual Employer or group of  
Employers performing work covered by the terms of this Agreement and that Agreement  
provides for more favorable wages, hours or conditions to any other Employer, the Employers  
signatory hereto, after sending written notice of such intention, shall be afforded the privilege to  
adopt such advantageous terms and conditions.  
2. This clause shall not apply to isolated or emergency situations which may occur from  
time to time under regular job conditions, nor shall this clause apply to any project agreement  
that is put in place before the bid.  
### ARTICLE XIX JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES  
1. The parties hereto mutually agree that if the Employer receives written notification from  
two (2) or more Unions contesting a work assignment, the Employer shall maintain his work  
assignment until the dispute has been resolved in accordance with the following procedure.  
HH 158  
7/18/12 17  
(a) Contesting Unions and the Employer shall attempt to resolve disputes. If unable to do  
so within forty-eight (48) hours (Saturday, Sunday and Holidays excluded) then;  
(b) The parties to this Agreement shall meet for the purpose of resolving the dispute. If  
unable to resolve said dispute within forty-eight (48) hours (Saturday, Sunday and Holidays  
excluded) then;  
(c) The parties to this Agreement will refer said dispute to their International Union and  
National AGC. If they are unable to resolve said dispute within five (5) days (Saturday, Sunday  
and Holidays excluded) then;  
(d) The parties to this Agreement shall have exhausted their internal remedies and may  
then seek resolution through the NLRB and/or the Courts. No legal action may be initiated  
before such internal remedies are exhausted.  
2. Neither party shall order or permit any lockout, strike, or other work stoppage or  
slowdown. Further, the Union will not aid, support or permit unauthorized strikes, slowdowns or  
work stoppages by its members with respect to a jurisdictional dispute.  
### ARTICLE XX DURATION  
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2015.  
It shall be renewed from year to year unless either party serves written notice that it desires to  
modify or terminate the Agreement at least sixty (60) days prior to March 31, 2015, or sixty (60)  
days prior to March 31 of any year thereafter.  
### ARTICLE XXI SAVINGS CLAUSE  
In the event that any State or Federal Statute or Law shall supersede or invalidate any clauses  
in this Agreement, such Statute or Law shall prevail over any such clause; however, the other  
provisions of this Agreement shall be valid and remain in full force and effect. In the event that  
any section or portion thereof shall be declared invalid, it is further agreed that the parties hereto  
shall meet within a period of sixty (60) days to redraft a new section or portion thereof, which  
Shall be valid and which shall replace that section or portion thereof declared invalid.  
### ARTICLE XXII FUND CONTRIBUTIONS  
1. (a) The Employer agrees to contribute to the following funds in the proper amount  
hereinafter set forth in Article X XIX for each actual hours worked:  
### Upstate New Y ork Training Fund’s 158 & 106  
Upstate New Y ork Engineer's Joint Welfare Fund / HRA  
Upstate New Y ork Engineer s Joint Pension Fund  
Central Pension Fund  
Health Reimbursement A ccount  
Se Gd  
HH 158  
7/18/12 18  
Such contributions are to be remitted to the proper above mentioned Funds, all of  
which are located at 101 Intrepid Lane, Syracuse, New Y ork, 13205 in the mode and manner as  
determined by the Board of Trustees of each respective fund, pursuant to the terms of  
Agreements and Declarations of Trusts between the Labor Relations Division, Associated  
General Contractors of New York State LLC, and Local Unions 17, 463 and 158 of the  
International Union of Operating Engineers.  
(b) It is further agreed that the Employers signatory hereto agree to contribute to the  
Upstate New Y ork Engineer’s Central Pension Fund the proper amounts hereinafter set forth in  
Article X XIX for each actual hours worked.  
2. Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Agreement, the parties agree that  
any Employer who becomes delinquent in the payment of contributions due to the Funds after  
notice has been served upon such delinquent Employer and the Association, the Employer shall  
be liable for not only the amount of contributions due, but in addition thereto, any such Employer  
agrees to pay interest, costs and fees of collection, legal fees not in excess of twenty percent  
(20%) of the amount of said delinquency and the costs of an audit if auditing procedures are  
necessary to ascertain the amount of the delinquencies. The failure of any Employer to make  
timely and proper contributions and remittances to the Funds shall not relieve any other  
Employer from making such payments.  
3. Itis further agreed between the parties hereto that in addition to the provision contained  
in the preceding paragraph, the Union is granted the unequivocal right, with respect to any  
delinquent Employer, to declare this Agreement breached and at the option of the Union said  
Agreement may be considered terminated upon seventy-two (72) hours notice to any such  
delinquent Employer. In the event that the Unions exercise such option under this section, such  
delinquent Employer agrees to pay as liquidated damages, each of said Employer's employees in  
the collective bargaining unit of the Unions, their regular rate of pay for all time lost from work  
as a result of the Employer’s delinquency to the above listed Funds.  
4. The parties hereto recognize that the Unions, the Funds, and/or any affiliated Fund may  
make contributions to the respective Funds for and on behalf of their employees. Such  
contribution shall be in the same amount and payable in the same manner as are made by other  
contributing Employers.  
9. The Trustees of Upstate New York Engineers Joint Pension Fund adopted a  
Rehabilitation Plan on June 7, 2010. Thereafter, the Trustees of the Upstate New York  
Engineers Joint Pension Plan provided to the parties the schedules adopted as part of the  
Rehabilitation Plan. The parties have negotiated and have adopted the schedule designated in the  
Rehabilitation Plan as the Preferred Schedule. That schedule is incorporated by reference into  
this collective bargaining agreement. Pursuant to such schedule, the parties, in addition to  
agreeing to the revised benefit structures set forth therein, also agree to contributions to the  
Upstate New York Engineers Joint Pension Fund as provided for in this agreement, which  
amounts are no less than those referenced in the Preferred Schedule.  
6. The Upstate New Y ork Engineers Joint Welfare Fund, Upstate New Y ork Engineers Joint  
HH 158  
7/18/12 19  
Pension Fund, the Upstate New York 106 & 158 Training Fund’s, and the Engineers Central  
Pension Fund (jointly referred to as "Funds") shall be administered pursuant to provisions of  
Agreements and Declarations of Trust of the respective Funds, the Collection Policy, the  
Mistaken Contribution Policy, and the Withdrawal Liability Policy (jointly referred to as  
"Policies") established by the various Funds’ Trustees, and shall be in compliance with the  
requirements of State and Federal laws governing and regulating such trusts. Such Agreements  
and Declarations of Trust and Policies, together with any amendments to the Trusts or Policies,  
are hereby incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.  
7. The parties to this Collective Bargaining Agreement hereby agree that the signing of this  
Agreement shall constitute an obligation to be bound by the terms and conditions of said  
Agreements and Declarations of Trust of the Funds, the Collection Policy, the Withdrawal  
Policy, and the Mistaken Contribution Policy, as if said Agreements and Declarations of Trust of  
the Funds and Policies were fully set forth herein and made a part thereof.  
8. In the areas of the operation and administration of the Funds and any other areas of  
responsibility or authority delegated to or reserved to the Funds’ Trustees under the Employee  
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), including, but not limited to, collection of  
delinquencies, return of contributions, and the rights and remedies of the Funds when collecting  
delinquencies, if the terms of this Agreement conflict with the Agreements and Declarations of  
Trust of the Funds and/or the Policies, the terms and provisions of the Agreements and  
Declarations of Trust and the Policies will govern and supersede any inconsistent provision of  
this A greement.  
### ARTICLE XXIII SUBCONTRACTING  
1. It is agreed by and between the parties hereto, that if the Association, parties hereto,  
subcontract job site work falling within the terms of this contract, provisions shall be made in  
each subcontract for the compliance by said subcontractor with terms, conditions of employment,  
wage supplements and wage rates not less than those contained herein. It is further agreed that  
prior to the subcontractor starting work, said subcontractor shall be in contractual relations with  
the Union and will meet with the Union for a prejob conference if requested. The intent of the  
foregoing clause is to bind the subcontractor to the same contract that the Union has with the  
general contractor in its entirety, i.e., manning provisions, rates, fringes, etc. It further and  
specifically means that Operating Engineers will operate all equipment as defined in this  
Agreement, used by the subcontractor. It is fully intended to protect Contractors and the  
Operating Engineers that they employ.  
2. A subcontractor is defined as any person, firm, partnership, self-employed person or  
corporation who agrees, under contract, with the general contractor or his subcontractor to  
perform on the job site any part or portion of the work covered by this Agreement, including the  
operating of equipment, performance of labor and installation of materials.  
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article, the provisions hereof shall not be  
applicable to a serviceman of a secondary Employer on the job site for the purpose of performing  
work on any new construction equipment which is covered by a warranty only for a reasonable  
period of time with respect to the warranty as to such equipment.  
HH 158  
7/18/12 20  
4. An owner/operator renting his machine to a contractor, shall be on said contractor's  
payroll as an employee and shall be governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
Separate checks shall be paid to the owner/operator for wages and leasing of such equipment.  
5. By mutual agreement, an Employer may subcontract to non-signatory specialty  
subcontractors, and use his best efforts to arrange a pre-job conference.  
### ARTICLE XXIV APPRENTICE TRAINING  
1. Itis the mutual intention of the parties that the Fund referred to in Article XXII of the  
current Collective Bargaining Agreement includes, encompasses and specifically provides for  
the conduct of an A pprentice Training Program.  
2. The number of apprentices per project shall be determined at the prejob meeting. Only  
one (1) first year apprentice per project. The Union will be in compliance with  
D.O.T. specifications at all times.  
3. The following schedules of wages shall be applicable to apprentices:  
) 0-1,000 hours - 60% of the B rate.  
) 1,001 - 2,000 hours - 70% of the B rate.  
) 2,001 - 3,000 hours - 80% of the B rate.  
d) 3,001 - 4,000 hours - 90% of the B rate.  
a  
b  
### C  
(  
(  
(  
(  
Plus the full amount of the applicable fringe benefits for District 545 and District 832.  
In addition to the above wages, fringe benefits shall be as follows for District 106:  
otal Fringe Benefits  
ues Deduction  
PAF deduction  
   
HH 158  
7/18/12 21  
### ARTICLE XXV NONDISC RIMINATION IN EMPLOY MENT  
1. The Employer and the Union mutually agree that they will comply and cooperate with all  
laws, codes, rules, regulations, executive orders and administrative decisions, whether state or  
federal, dealing with nondiscrimination in training, membership, employment, job tenure,  
promotions, and every other matter covered by such laws, codes, etc. not herein expressly  
mentioned. The Employer shall have the right to conduct systematic and direct recruitment of  
qualified minority and female applicants should the Union fail to refer sufficient minority and  
female trainees within forty-eight (48) hours to satisfy specific contractual Equal Employment  
Opportunity requirements and conditions. The use of masculine or feminine gender in this  
agreement shall be construed as including both genders.  
2. It is recognized that there are specific subcontract requirements for D/M/WBE  
participation in most public works contracts and that certain exceptions to the subcontracting  
clause may be required for the Employer to comply with these requirements. Every effort will  
be made by the Employer to arrange a pre-job meeting with these subcontractors and the Union.  
It is understood that in no way shall the enforcement of this clause allow other trades to perform  
the work of this Union.  
### ARTICLE XXVI STATUS QUO ON CERTAIN EQUIPMENT  
1. The parties hereto recognize that the operation of certain equipment and work  
assignments may raise questions regarding jurisdiction of work in areas of one or more of the  
local unions party to this Agreement. The equipment involved is set forth below:  
(a) Snorkel  
(b) Stump Remover (chipper)  
(c) Blower for burning brush  
(d) Motorized hydraulic pin puller  
(e) Motorized hydraulic seeder  
(f) Concrete Saw  
(g) Convoying vehicles when convoying Engineer equipment  
(h) Fueling of equipment  
2. Pending final determination by the International Union of Operating Engineers and any  
other international union claiming jurisdiction of the above equipment, such equipment and the  
operation thereof shall remain "status quo" and no permanent assignment shall be made until the  
decision or agreement between the said International Unions has been made.  
3. The decision and/or agreement reached between the International Unions determining the  
claims shall become a part of this Agreement and shall be final and binding upon the parties  
hereto.  
HH 158  
7/18/12 22  
4. The parties agree that the assignment of the articulated off road material hauler is subject to  
and shall be covered by the Construction Site Jurisdictional between the IUOE and  
IBT dated 5/12/2000. Contractors signatory to this Agreement that have prior assigned the  
jurisdiction for the articulated off road material hauler to the IBT shall not be required to assign  
this equipment to the Union.  
### ARTICLE XXVII DEFENSE AND BENEFIT FUND AND/OR DUES DEDUCTION  
1. The Employer shall deduct from the basic wage rate of employees covered by this  
Agreement, the amount hereinafter set forth in Article XXIX for each actual hour paid such  
employees.  
2. No deduction shall be made for the Defense and Benefit Fund and/or Dues for any such  
employee unless the employee has deposited with the Employer his copy of an executed  
authorization form which shall in no event be irrevocable for a period of more than one year or  
the termination date of this Agreement whichever may be the less.  
3. Executed copies of the authorization cards will be kept on file by the Union and the  
Association (or such other Employer group as this Association and the Union may agree).  
4. The Employer assumes no obligation with respect to the obtaining of authorization cards,  
it being understood that this is a duty and obligation of the Union.  
5. The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims,  
demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not  
taken by the Company in reliance upon work assessment authorization cards furnished by the  
Employees and/or Union.  
### ARTICLE XXVIII - OWNER MANDATED REQUIREMENTS  
All employees shall observe the and/or owner's rules and regulations including  
but not limited to, safety, drug testing, cell phone use, smoking, break time, etc.  
### ARTICLE XXIX WAGE RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS  
1. Set forth below are the agreed upon wage classifications for this A greement:  
2. Master Mechanic (guaranteed 40 hours per week Monday through Friday).  
3. Tower Cranes will be manned by two (2) Class A operators who will receive $4.00 per  
hour over the Class A rate. Tower cranes to include stationary, rail mounted, truck or carrier  
mounted and crawler mounted, hydraulic or friction. For any mode of power, crew to be  
assigned to crane upon start of erection and will be employed until crane is dismantled and  
shipped off job. A Maintenance Engineer (Mechanic) will be employed to assist assembly,  
HH 158  
7/18/12 23  
jacking of crane and disassembly. One operator is required on any Potain HDT 80 self-erecting  
mobile tower crane or similar.  
4. Crane Rates  
Crane 1: All tower cranes, including self erecting to be paid $4.00 per hour over the Class A rate  
Crane 2: All Lattice Boom Cranes and all other cranes with a manufacturer ’s rating of fifty (50)  
ton and over, to be paid $3.00 per hour over Class A rate.  
Crane 3: All hydraulic cranes and derricks with a manufacturer's rating of 49 ton and below,  
including boom trucks, to be paid $2.00 per hour over Class A rate  
Crane rates apply when a Certificate of Competence is required by the New York State  
Department of Labor.  
### CLASSIFICATION A:  
Asphalt Curb Machine, Self Propelled, Slipform  
Automated Concrete Spreader (CMI Type)  
Automatic Fine Grader  
Backhoe (Except Tractor Mounted, Rubber Tired)  
Backhoe Excavator Full Swing (CAT 212 or similar type)  
Back Filling Machine  
Belt Placer (CMI Type)  
Blacktop Plant (A utomated)  
Boom truck  
Cableway  
Caisson A uger  
Central Mix Concrete Plant (A utomated)  
Concrete Curb Machine, Self Propelled, Slipform  
Concrete Pump  
Crane  
Cherry Picker  
Derricks (steel erection)  
Dragline  
Overhead Crane (Gantry or Straddle type)  
Pile Driver  
Truck Crane  
Directional Drilling Machine  
Dredge  
Dual Drum Paver  
Excavator (All PurposeHydraulically Operated) (Gradall or Similar)  
Front End Loader ( 4 cu. yd. and Over)  
Head Tower (Sauerman or Equal)  
Hoist (Two or Three Drum)  
Holland Loader  
Maintenance Engineer  
Mine Hoist  
Mucking Machine or Mole  
Pavement Breaker(SP) Wertgen; PB-4 and similar type  
Power Grader  
HH 158  
7/18/12 24  
Profiler (over 105 H.P.)  
Quad 9  
Quarry Master (or equivalent)  
scraper  
Shovel  
Side Boom  
Slip Form Paver (If a second man is needed, he shall be an Oiler)  
Tractor Drawn BeltType Loader  
Truck or Trailer Mounted Log Chipper (Self Feeder)  
Tug Operator (Manned Rented Equipment Excluded)  
Tunnel Shovel  
### CLASSIFICATION B:  
Asphalt Paver  
Backhoe (Tractor Mounted, Rubber Tired)  
Bituminous Recycler Machine  
Bituminous Spreader and Mixer  
Blacktop Plant (NonA utomated)  
Blast or Rotary Dnill (Truck or Tractor Mounted)  
Boring Machine  
Cage Hoist  
Central Mix Plant (NonA utomated) and All Concrete Batching Plants  
Cherry Picker (5 tons capacity and under)  
Concrete Paver (Over 16S)  
Crawler Drill, Self-contained  
Crusher  
Diesel Power Unit  
Drill Rigs, Tractor Mounted  
Front End Loader (Under 4 cu. yd.)  
Greaseman/Lubrication Engineer  
HiPressure Boiler (15 lbs. and over)  
Hoist (One Drum)  
Hydro-Axe  
Kolman Plant Loader and Similar Type Loaders (If Employer requires  
another man to clean the screen or to maintain the equipment, he shall be  
an Oiler)  
L.C.M. Work Boat Operator  
Locomotive  
Mixer (for stabilized base selfpropelled)  
Monorail Machine  
Plant Engineer  
Profiler (105 H.P. and under)  
Pug Mill  
Pump Crete  
Ready Mix Concrete Plant  
Refrigeration Equipment (for soil stabilization)  
Road Widener  
HH 158  
7/18/12 29  
Roller (all above subgrade)  
Sea Mule  
Self-contained Ride-on Rock Dnill, Excluding Air-Track Type Dnill  
Skidder  
Tractor with Dozer and/or Pusher  
Trencher  
Tugger Hoist  
Vermeer saw (ride on, any size or type)  
Welder  
Winch  
Winch Cat  
### CLASSIFICATION C:  
A Frame Winch Hoist on Truck  
Articulated Heavy Hauler  
Aggregate Plant  
Asphalt or Concrete Grooving Machine (ride on)  
Ballast Regulator, Ride-on  
Boiler (used in conjunction with production)  
Bituminous Heater, self-propelled  
Boat (powered)  
Cement and Bin Operator  
Compressors, Dust Collectors, Generators, Pumps, Welding Machines, Light  
Plants, Heaters (hands-off equipment)  
Concrete Pavement Spreader and Finisher  
Concrete Paver or Mixer (16S and under)  
Concrete Saw (self-propelled)  
Conveyor  
Deck Hand  
Directional Drill Machine Locator  
Drill, Core  
Drill, Well  
Farm Tractor with accessories  
Fine Grade Machine  
Fireman  
Fork Lift  
Form Tamper  
Grout Pump  
Gunite Machine  
Hammers (Hydraulic self-propelled)  
Hydra-Spiker, ride-on  
Hydraulic Pump (jacking system)  
Hydro- Blaster (W ater)  
Mulching Machine  
Oiler  
Parapet Concrete or Pavement Grinder  
Post Hole Digger and Post Driver  
HH 158  
7/18/12 26  
Power Broom (towed)  
Power Heaterman  
Power Sweeper  
Revinius Widener  
Roller (Grade and Fill)  
Scarifier, ride-on  
Shell Winder  
Skid steer loader (Bobcat or similar)  
Span-Saw, ride-on  
Steam Cleaner  
Tamper, ride-on  
Tie Extractor, ride-on  
Tie Handler, ride-on  
Tie Inserter, ride-on  
Tie Spacer, ride-on  
Tire Repair  
Track Liner, ride-on  
Tractor  
Tractor (with towed accessories)  
Vibratory Compactor  
Vibro Tamp  
Well Point  
2. In the event that equipment listed under Article XXIX of this Agreement or any other  
equipment which traditionally has been the work of Operating Engineers is operated by Robotic  
Control, the operation of said equipment shall remain the work of the Operating Engineers and  
the classification covering the operation will be the same as if manually operated.  
3. Set forth below are the agreed-upon wages, fringe benefit contributions, defense and  
benefit fund and/or dues deductions, and voluntary political action fund deductions effective July  
1, 2012, July 1, 2013, July 1, 2014 and July 1, 2015.  
HH 158  
7/18/12 27  
### DISTRICT 106 LRD/AGC  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, Local 158  
2012 - 2015 Heavy & Highway Wage Rate Schedule  
Welfare CPF | HRA T otal *VPAF | Total  
Per Pension | Training | per per | *Dues Per Per  
Classification Hour hour | hour per hour | Deduction | Hour -—  
Effective Dates July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013  
Master  
Mechanic 32} $8.10] $6.95 $1.10 = 60 50 85 $22.60 | -3.15% 7 at 92  
me ne sen a oe oe ae soo) oe  
oe Dates —— 1 — une — ——  
Master  
Mechanic $37.67 | $8.10] $7.45 $1.10 | $5.60 | $1.10 $23.35 | -3.15% iD so 02  
[im [sna  
| $1.10 | $5.60 |  
$36.06] “$8.10  
$35.15 | $8.10] $7.45  
eT  
oe Dates —— 1 — une — —  
Master  
Mechanic 39.02} $8.10] $7.95 $1.10 | $5.60 | $1.35 $24.10 | -3.15% | ($0.10) | $63.12  
$37,  
$36.5 10| $7.95] $1.10] $5.60 | $1.35  
‘crass | $3398 $8.10 | $7.95] $1.10 | $5.60] $1.35] $24.10} -3.15% | ($0.10) | $58.03  
* Applies to the following Counties: Albany, Broome, Chenango, Clinton, Columbia, Northern part of  
Dutchess (to the northern boundary line of City of Poughkeepsie then due east to Route 115 to Bedelt  
Road then east along Bedelt Road to VanWagner Road then north along VanWagner Road to Bower  
Road then east along Bower Road to Rte. 44 east to Route 343 then along Route 343 east to the northern  
boundary of Town of Dover Plains and east along the northern boundary of Town of Dover Plains to  
Connecticut), Essex, Franklin, Fulton, Greene, Hamilton, Herkimer, Montgomery, Otsego, Rensselaer,  
Saratoga, Schenectady, Schoharie, Tioga, Warren and Washington.  
   
### DISTRICT 545 LRD/AGC  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, Local 158  
2012 - 2015 Heavy & Highway Wage Rate Schedule  
CPF | HRA T otal *VPAF | Total  
per per | supplements *Dues Per Per  
hour | hour per hour | Deduction | Hour —  
r  
Effective Dates July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013  
$34.45| $8.10] $7.50] $1.25 $22.95 | -3.15% $0.10) $51.40  
7.50  
Effective Dates July 1 — une — ——  
Mechanic a 80} $8.10] $8.00} $1.25 = 00 7 39 $23.70 | -3.15% 7 = 30  
$1. 25 3 00 x1 35 0 0 a7 27  
oe en. a Si an a ae oe  
ae Dates —— 1 — une — ——  
Master  
Mechanic $1.25 a 25 7 35 7  
aso] [3.15% | 0.t0)|  
‘clas —[sauen| sao] saso| [35% | $5037  
‘classe | $8.10 $125 $5.25 | $1.35] $24.45] -3.15% | ($0.10) | $56.09  
* Applies to the following Counties: Cayuga, Cortland, Jefferson, Lewis, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga,  
Oswego, St. Lawrence, Seneca and Tompkins.  
   
2012-2015 agreement.docx  
7/18/12 2  
### DISTRICT 832 LRD/AGC  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, Local 158  
2012 - 2015 Heavy & Highway Wage Rate Schedule  
T otal *Dues  
HRA | suppleme | Deduction | *VPAF T otal  
per nts per T otal Per Per  
UNICON | hour hour Package Hour Hour  
C lassification Fun  
“fective ate uly 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 po  
$3.90  
$3.90  
$3.90 $22.73  
7 ate  
Mechanic | $36.3 $0.08 | $1.05 | $22.73 15% | ($0.10)  
57.  
57.  
‘Class C | $31.54 $0.08 | $1.05 ($0.10) | $54.27  
fC TT es ee SS  
ffective Dates July 1, 2013 - June 30, 201  
O1  
FA 1A Ie  
  
r= 100 |r  
### WwW  
a  
$8.10] $9.15 $4.15| $0.08  
[Crane 2 [$39.2 $8.10] $9.15 $0.95 $4.15] $0.08 $1.20 23.63 315% ($0.10)  
$0.95 | $4.15] $0.08] $1.20] $23.63] -3.15% | ($0.10)  
Master  
Mechanic $37.4 $1.20 $23.63 ~ a ($0.10) | $61.10  
. 59,  
7 59,  
. $56.27  
lt ee  
  
oO  
ft | |  
  
re} NO] Co  
00} 00| Co  
as | BS] iS  
Fr |G  
CO | tO  
100  
Ww] >  
| 3.15% ($0.10) | $65.84  
$40.31 | $8. 95 | $4.40 $1.35 ($0.10)  
| | 1.  
Master  
Mechanic $38.57 $1.35 $24.53 a ($0.10) | $63.10  
[$9.65  
‘Class B | $36.60 | | $0.08 $1.35 $24.53 S58 ($0.10) $61.13  
$33.74 $8.10 $9.65 | $0.95 | $4.40] $0.08] $1.35] $24.53] -3.15% | ($0.10) } $58.27  
* Applies to the following Counties: Allegany, Chemung, Livingston, Monroe, Ontario, Schuyler,  
Steuben, Wayne, Y ates, and the Eastern part of Genesee (including the City of Batavia)  
   
2012-2015 agreement.docx  
7/18/12 3  
### ARTICLE XXX COMPLETE AGREEMENT  
It is understood and agreed that this Agreement is the complete Agreement between both parties  
and there are no other Agreements expressed or implied except the Association and the Union may  
from time to time issue Memoranda of Agreement for the purpose of clarification of the contract or  
for the purpose of amending the Agreement on a project basis or for other purposes mutually agreed  
to. It is mutually agreed that said Memoranda will be on file in the Association office and the  
Union’s office and will be considered as addenda and become a part of this A greement.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOEF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly subscribed  
by their duly authorized representatives the day and year first above written.  
### FOR THE LRD/AGC ALBANY FOR IUOE LOCAL 158  
### REGION, ROCHESTER REGION,  
### CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION  
Mike Elmendorf Daniel J. McGraw  
Richard A. Ross  
29  
2012-2015 agreement.docx  
### INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYER  
The undersigned Employer doing business as  
has read and is fully familiar with all of the terms of this Agreement by and between the LABOR  
### RELATIONS DIVISION, ALBANY REGION, ROCHESTER REGION, CENTRAL NEW  
### YORK REGION, ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF NEW YORK STATE  
LLC. (hereinafter referred to as the "Association"), and the INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL UNION 158 dated the 1“ day of April, 2012, between the  
same parties and agrees to adhere to and be bound by all the terms thereof, as well as revisions and  
amendments adopted pursuant thereto. The Employer agrees to become signatory to the Trust  
Agreements, as amended, establishing the Welfare, Pension, and the Training and Skill Improvement  
Funds of the said local unions and the Employer designates as its Representatives and Trustees on  
said Funds, the Trustees selected by the above "Association" now serving or who may in the future  
serve as vacancies occur.  
Name of Firm  
By:  
Telephone Number  
Local Union:  
By:  
### UNION COPY  
2012-2015 agreement.docx 30  
7/18/12  
### INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYER  
The undersigned Employer doing business as  
has read and is fully familiar with all of the terms of this Agreement by and between the LABOR  
### RELATIONS DIVISION, ALBANY REGION, ROCHESTER REGION, CENTRAL NEW  
### YORK REGION, ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF NEW YORK STATE  
LLC. (hereinafter referred to as the "Association"), and the INTERNATIONAL UNION OF  
OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL UNION 158 dated the 1st day of April, 2012, between the  
same parties and agrees to adhere to and be bound by all the terms thereof, as well as revisions and  
amendments adopted pursuant thereto. The Employer agrees to become signatory to the Trust  
Agreements, as amended, establishing the Welfare, Pension, and the Training and Skill Improvement  
Funds of the said local unions and the Employer designates as its Representatives and Trustees on  
said funds, the Trustees selected by the above "Association" now serving or who may in the future  
serve as vacancies occur.  
Name of Firm  
By:  
Telephone Number  
Local Union:  
By:  
LRD/AGC COPY (Local 158)  
2012-2015 agreement.docx 31  
7/18/12