Cornell University  
ILR School  
   
BLS Contract Collection — Metadata Header  
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School,  
Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.  
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the  
digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent  
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.  
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see  
http://digitalcommons. ilr.cornell.edu/bilscontracts/  
Or contact us:  
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853  
607-254-5370 _ ilrref@cornell.edu  
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -  
http: //digitalcommons. ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/2/)  
Title: Acme Steel Company, Acme Packaging Corporation, Acme Metals  
Incorporated and United Steelworkers of America (USWA), AFL-CIO-CLC (1993)  
### (MOA)  
K#: 2500  
Employer Name: Acme Steel Company, Acme Packaging Corporation, Acme  
Metals Incorporated  
Location: IL Riverdale  
Union: United Steelworkers of America (USWA), AFL-CIO-CLC  
SIC: 3312 NAICS: 331111  
Sector: P Number of Workers: 1150  
Effective Date: 02/04/00 Expiration Date: 12/31/05  
Number of Pages: 344 Other Years Available: Y  
   
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of  
the Catherwood website - ilr. cornell edu/library/research/  
For additional information on the ILR School, ilr.cornell.edu/  
02:46pm +] 7088408032 T+704 F=640  
   
     
### Voc \ RIVERDALE PLANT  
  
\\  
Nw  
3  
Postit™ brang fax transmittal memo 7G71 = &  
¢°  
ie”  
      
      
   
yo Mo  
### eR TO  
Be fA Ww)  
why  
### a & AGREEMENT Sah  
Jol parm, _a@fovfacee = 12/0  
This Agreement, which covers the terms and conditions ar the Riverdale Plant, is  
emered imo between the United Steelworkers of America (AFL-CJ]O-CL€) (the “Union”)  
and Acme Stee] Company (Riverdale Plant) and Acme Packaging Corporation (Riverdale  
Plant) (the “Company”), and Acme Metals Incorporated. The Union and the Company  
agree that the September 01, 1993 Riverdale Plant Agreement shall be changed only as  
necessary to reflect the following co provide a new Agreement thar will become effective  
on the date determined by Appendix A of this Seulement Agreetnent and termmate in  
accordance with ~!” below.  
I. Modify Article XXII (“Termination Dare”) of the Labor Agreement as  
follows:  
A. Change “August 31, 1999 (11:59 P.M.)” to “December 31, 2005  
(11:59 P.M.)”  
B. Change “September 03, 1999” to “December 31, 2005S”.  
Il. The parties agree that the “Pension dated January 01, 2000,  
and the “Insurance Agreement” dated January 01, 1994, and the  
“Pensioners’ and Surviving Spouses’ Health Insurance dated  
January 01, 1994, between them shall remain in effect unt] April 30,  
2006, thereafter subject to the right of either party on one hundred and  
twenty (120) days written notice served on or after December 31, 2005, to  
terminate any or all of these three (3) Agreements.  
fl. The following shall become effective on the date determined by Appendix  
A of this Serntlemenr Agreemem, unless otherwise specified in this  
Settlement Agreement or the applicable Appendix:  
A. Adopt the “Agreement Conditioned On Successful Emergence  
From Bankruptcy” set forth in Appendix A.  
B. The Standard Hourly Wage Scale for non-incentive jobs and the  
Standard Hourly Wage Scale for incentive jobs (Incentive  
Calculation Rate and Hourly Additive) are provided in Appendices  
B-1, B-2, B-3, and B-4.  
.  
C. The Inflation Recognition Paymemt as provided in Appendix C.  
   
02:46pm  
+17088498092 T-704  
. Adopt the changes to the Pension Agreement set forth in Appendix  
D.  
. Adopt the “Letter Agreement On Interpretation Of Successorship”  
set forth in Appendix E.  
Adopt the Letter Agreement on Neutrality ser forth in Appendix F  
and the [ener Agreement dated August 23, 1999 regarding  
application of exceptions to the Letter Agreement on Newtraliry as  
set forth in Appendix F-1.  
. Adopt the changes in Out provisions set forth in  
Appendix G  
. Adopt the new provisions concerning the Overtime Conrrol  
Program set forth in Appendix H.  
Adopt the Lener of Understanding concerning Stand Up For Steel  
set forth in Appendix I.  
Adopt the changes in the Vacation provisions of Article XIII set  
forth in Appendix J}.  
Adopt the Lewer of Understanding concerning Workplace  
Harassmem and Prevention set forth in Appendix K.  
. Adopt the Coordinator Letter of Understanding Set forth in  
Appendix L.  
. Adopt the Leuer of Understanding concerning Trade and Craft  
Training set forth in Appendix M; the Riverdale Plant Maintenance  
Training Plan set forth in Appendix M-1; and the revised Appendix  
W of the Riverdale Plant Labor Agreement set forth in Appendix  
M-2.  
- Adopt the Letter Agreement concerning disputes over compliance  
with the standards of the Parmership Agreement set formh in  
Appendix N and the changes in Appendix S of the Riverdale Plant  
Labor Agreement set forth in Appendix N-1.  
- Adopt the Leuer Agreement on Ergonomics set forth in Appendix  
O and the Letter Agreement on Workplace Violence set forth in  
Appendix O-1.  
P. 002/004  
F=640  
tails  
Between  
### ACME STEEL COMPANY  
Plant)  
### ACME PACKAGING CORPORATION  
{Riverdale Plant}  
and  
### UNITED STEELWORKERS  
### OF AMERICA  
September 1, 1993  
ce  
X- 8131/99 3 pr  
   
### AGREEMENT  
Between  
### ACME STEEL COMPANY  
(Riverdale Plant)  
and  
### ACME PACKAGING CORPORATION  
(Riverdale Plant)  
### UNITED STEELWORKERS  
### OF AMERICA  
wution = Septomber 1, 1993 —  
vi  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Page $$ Section  
Agreement 1  
Purpose and Intent of the Partles......... —  
Management ASH Hehe PASSE SEs 24  
Union Membership and Checkott.............. 25  
Union ene  
indemnity Clause ..  
ven  
Adjustment of Complaints snd  
reny 30  
Purpose  
Definitions... ee  
Union Grievance ... ions BD  
Complaint and Grievance Procedure... de  
General Provisions Applying  
1o Complaints and Grievances ...............40  
Union Comptaints or Gievances........... ay 40  
Suspension of Complaint and  
Procedure ... raven AG  
of Complain a and  
to Plant. ee | |  
Suspension and Cischarge Cases.............46  
No Strikes Of LOCKOUTS woe 50  
   
y=  
~~ cH oe & Gh =  
  
Ariicie  
vil  
vi  
iX  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Page Section  
Hours of  
Scope ... St  
Normal Work serene DT  
Normal Work Patiem and Schedules tor  
New Mill §1  
Normal Work Pattern for Old Mill  
Posting Schedules ...  
Reporting Altowante ... os 54  
Allowance for Jury of Witness Service... 55  
Allowance for Mititary OO  
Industrial Accident Allowance... + 5G  
Allowance for Funeral Leave... nan ED  
Gveriime - Pramtum - * Wolldaye ..  
Purpose .... 5S  
of Terms. pore 58  
Overtime for New Mill Employees.  
Conditions Under Which Overtime Rates  
Shall Be 59  
Sunday Premium for New Mill 60  
Overtime Premium tor Otd Mill  
Holiday Premium tor New ‘Mil  
Old Mill Employees .... Ol  
Overtime Distribution...  
Pay tor Holidays Not Worked ...  
Overtime Camputation - Union Officials...  
Safety and Healt, 65  
Safety Devices, Wearing Apparel, and  
Safety  
Safety HaZards  
### JSR  
   
  
  
  
ww aw  
oh =  
Articte  
### K  
Xtl  
xitl  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Page  
Butletin Boards 68  
Posting of Notice 68  
68 2  
Leaves of rerarer OD  
GENIAL... 69 1  
Positions with Intemational or Local Union 69 2  
76  
72  
SY 72 1  
Length of Vacation and Vacation Pay........ 73 2  
Scheduling of Regular 74 3  
Vacation Pay.... FE 4  
Vacation Allowance... TO §  
### BO  
Standard Hourly Wage $0 1  
Application of Standard Hourly Wage  
ee 2  
Trade or Craft Additive... BF 3  
New and Adjusted inceniives ... vrs BO 4  
and Classification of New oF  
Changed Jobs... ase vere BI 5  
Existing Incentive Plans .. 95 8  
(Reserved For Future Use} 06 7  
Adjustment of Personal Out-of-Line  
Cifferentials on Incentive and  
Non-Incentive JODS 96 8  
Parformance Standards on Non-Incentive  
Jobs... conan wo 9  
Wage Rate inequity Compl o or  
OG 10  
Correction of Enors. 11  
Allowance Provision OF 12  
Shift OP 13  
Earnings Protection 99 14  
   
Article  
xv  
### XVI  
XVil  
xvill  
xix  
5:  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Page Section  
Savarance 104  
Condillons of 104 1  
EI 105 2  
Scale of 105 3  
Calculation of Allowance 106 4  
of Allowance... iam WOO 5  
Non-Duplicatlan of AIOWBINCG 106 6  
Election Conceming Layoff Status............ 407 7  
Senlorilly 106  
Saniority Status of 108 1  
Determination of Seniority Units............... 109 2  
Posting of lob Openings 110 3  
Intarplant and vent Te Transfers... 110 4  
Tamparary 104 5  
Shitt 174 6  
Probationary Employes ?  
Calculation of Continuous Service............ 193 8  
Decrease Of FOre® 115 9  
Seniority Status of Grievance  
Committeamen and Local Union Officers115 10  
interplant Job Opportuniiles ..................... 116 11  
Manning of Now Factities 122 12  
(Reserved tor future use}  
Supplementat Unemployment  
PRA 124  
Description of Plan 124 1  
124 2  
to the 125 3  
Local Working 126  
Sub end Insurance Grievances 128  
Prior Agreements ....... tvave VS2  
Termirnatlon Deate 138  
   
Appendix  
Standard Hourly Wage Scale - Non-Incantive  
Jobs  
### A  
Act  
A-2  
A3  
Aa  
O(F)  
D1  
   
Wages - incentives Jobs (ICA, Hourly Addltive)................ 138  
Recognition PayMent 142  
Special Payment Conditioned on 148  
Signing Bonus and Lump Sum 147  
Memorandum of Understanding on  
Miscellaneous Matters . 149  
Nor-tncantive Bonus ce TOD  
Memorandum of en  
Incentive Arbitration Award ...  
Letter Agreement Regarding 155  
Apprenticeship Memorandum  
ot P+ tea bast her ae nee ee ted 156  
Letior of Understanding - Employee 1 Hours  
ol Pay Guarantes............. WOE  
Incentive Check List Ett te the 160  
Labor-Management Teams  
(LMPT) Agreament ESTE AE PERE ere ETT ht Peed Rae EE td ed path ted 163  
Dealing With Testing PST ee ti ese thet 166  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Appendix Page  
d Memorandum of ae  
Training and Education ... UG  
K Miscellaneous on  
and Health Matters... TIO  
| Letter Agroement Regarding Safety and  
Health WEB  
" Memorandum of Unersticng on Sale and  
Health Training.....  
li) Memorandum of Understanding on Toxic Matestals .......... 179  
I¥V Memorandum of Understanding on Sampling ...........0.00 178  
¥ Memorandum of Understanding on Medical Records......,. 180  
VI Mamorandum of Understanding on Safety Shoes............. 180  
Vil Latter Agreement Regarding Indemnificailon 181  
National Policy For Stee! 18M  
M Understandings on Comoraie 188  
{ Letter of Understanding -« Right of First Offer on Sale  
of Acme Steel Company Common 188  
1} Letter of Understanding - Acme Metats, Incorporated's  
and Acme Packaging Corporation's Signatures  
on the Collective 182  
li! Letter Agreement - Board of Directors essen. 194  
N Memorandum of Understanding on Successorship........... 196  
   
Page  
0 Memorandum of Agreement Conceming Bidding Rights  
of Employees While on Layoff From the Plant................. 198  
### P SHG PRA MOE  
Q Letter of Understanding Regarding 209  
R-1 Security Plain 214  
A-2 Memorandum ol Understanding on Productivity............0. 226  
Memorandum of oF on  
Attrition Inducameants .... vse de  
S Memorandum of Undersianding on  
Cooperative SO  
T Letier of Understanding on Neutrality in  
Union Organizing SO  
U Memorandum of Understanding Commitment............ 254  
V-1 Letter of Understanding Regarding The 6 Fanny a and  
Medical Leave Aci of 1993.,............ ——  
V-2  ~— Letter of understanding Regarding As With  
Disabilities Act ..  
Ww Memorandum of Understanding on Trade  
or Craft Usage and Training 258  
X Letter Agreement Regarding Nationa! Health Care ........... 262  
Y Letter of Understanding Regarding Us USW/PAG  
Checkoft Agreemeni ...  
z Reopener Negotiations and interest 267  
### TAGLE OF CONTENTS  
Appendix  
AA _—_ Letter Agreement Concerning Floating Holiday.............  
BB Letter of Understanding Regarding "As ts, Where Is”........  
CC Memorandum of Agreement Concerning  
Transilianal Period Matters....  
wor 29S  
ord  
vn  
   
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### AGREEMENT ON RULES FOR THE APPLICATION OF  
### THE SENIORITY FACTORS  
Rules)  
  
Parsamonh  
Purpose, Guides and Types of Continuous Service...........  
8  
Uses of Types of Continuous 291  
Posting of Job Openings  
Temporary Promotions  
Downgrading and  
Job  
Fr  
Exceptions to Seniority HUES  
1 Rules for Supplementary  
J Transitional Employee  
### eR BSR ERR  
Appendix A Sentority utes Appiicabie to the  
Steel Producing and Primary Rolling  
Mil Divisions A PEPE 303  
Introduction TET REEF REESE epee tHE EE Ree ETE eee  
Uses ot Types of Continuous Service ri  
Temporary esas  
ge 8  
E Bowngrading and 305  
F Recalls ‘ 308  
PAPERS TE EERE tht de tO POE PT PTE OR eas cee Ee  
G Job Requests.  
  
H (Reserved For Future Use}  
| (Reserved For Future Use)  
J Placement Of NOW 308  
K = Employees OOD  
  
Exhibit And ee ir DIS  
rcs kM  
Supptemental Understandings SEG  
   
### AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT, dated September 1, 1993, is between ACME STEEL  
### COMPANY, Riverdale Plant, and ACME PACKAGING CORPORATION,  
Riverdale Piant (hereinafter referred to as the and UNITED  
STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (hereinalter referred to as the  
Except as olherwise expressly provided herein, the provisions 0) this  
Agreement shall be effactive September 1, 1993.  
The Union having been designated the exclusive collactive bargaining  
representative of the employees of he Company, as defined in Article It,  
Scope of the Agreement, the Company recognizes the Union as such  
axdlusive representative. Accordingly, the Union makes this Agreament  
in its Capacity 2% the exclusive collective bargaining representative of such  
amployees, The provisions of this constitute the sole  
procedure for the processing and setiiement of any claim by an employes  
or the Union of a violation by ihe Company of this Agreement. As tha  
representative of the employees, the Union may prosecute complaints and  
through the and grievance procedure, including  
arbitration, in accordance with this Agreament, or adjust or settle the  
same,  
### AATICLE | - PURPOSE AND INTENT OF THE PARTIES  
### ARTICLE t  
### PURPOSE ANO INTENT OF THE PARTIES  
   
1  
{A} The purpose of the Company and the Union in entering  
into this Labor Agreement is to set forth their agraement  
on rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of  
employmen] so as to promote orderly and peacetul  
relations with the employees, to achieve uninterrupted  
operations in the plant, and to achieve the highas! level  
of employee perlormance consistent with salety, good  
health, and sustained effort.  
(8) Tha Campany and the Union encourage the highest  
possible degree of friendly, cooperative relationships  
between their respective representatives ai all levels and  
with and between all employees. The officers of the  
Company and the Union realize that this goal depends on  
more Ihan words in a labor agreement, that it depends  
primazily on attitudes between people in their respective  
organizations and al all levels of responsibility, They  
believe that proper attitudes must be based on full  
understanding of and regard for the respective rights and  
responsibilities of both the Company and the Union.  
They believe also that proper attitudes are of major  
importance in the plant where day-to-day operations and  
administration of this Agreement demand fairness and  
understanding. They beliave that these attitudes can be  
encouraged best when it is made clear that Company and  
Union offidals, whose dulies involved negotiation of this  
Agreement, are not anti-Union or antiCompany bul are  
sincerely concerned with the best interests and well-being  
of ihe business and atl employees.  
ees ooo tenn  
### ARTICLE | - PURPOSE AND INTENT OF THE PARTIES  
(C} The parties recognize thal for their joint benefit, increases  
in wages and benefiis should he consistent with the  
prospenty and efficiency of the steel! industry.  
The parties are concemed that the future for the industry  
in ierms of employment security and return on substantia!  
expendiiures will rest heavily upon the ability of  
the parties to work to achieve significantly  
highar productivity trends than have occurred in the  
recent past. The parties are acutely aware of the impact  
upon the industry and its employees of the sizable  
penetration of ihe domestic steel market by foreign  
The pariies have joined their effors in  
seeking reliel irom the problem of massive imporiation of  
foreign siee] manufactured in low-wage countries. Thus,  
it is iNCumMbent upon the parties to work coaperatively to  
meet the challenge posed by principal joreign competitors  
in recent years. It is also important that the parties  
cooperate in promoting the use of American-made stee!.  
(D} By such arrangement, the believe thal they, as  
men of good will with sound purpose, may best protect  
private enterprise and its efficiency in the interests of all,  
as well as the legitimate interest ol thei respective  
organizations within the framework of a democratic  
society in which ragard for fact and faimess is essential.  
(E) it is the continuing policy of the Company and the Union  
thal the provisions of this Agreement shail be applied to  
all employees without regard to race, color, religious  
creed, national origin, handicap, disabled veteran and  
veteran of the Vietnam era status, sex or age, except  
where Sex or age is a bona fide occupational qualification.  
it also the continuing policy of the Company and the  
Union that all employees shall be provided a workplace  
free of sexual harassment. Sexual harassment shail be  
considered discrimination under this provision. in the  
event thal any such discrimination should occur, the  
3  
### ARTICLE | - PURPOSE AND INTENT OF THE PARTIES  
(F)  
Company shall take corrective action as appropriate.  
Neither the Company nor the Union shatl retaliate against  
an employee who complains of such discrimination, of  
who Js a witness to such discrimination.  
4, join Comrmitiee on Civil Righis shalt be established al  
the plant. The Union reprasentation on the Committee  
shall be no more than three (3} members of the Union, in  
addition to ihe President and Chairman of the Grievance  
Commities. The Union members shall be certified to the  
Manager of Human Resources by the Union and the  
Company members shall bé cenified io the Union.  
The Company and Union mambers of the joint Committee  
shall meel al mutually agreeable times, but no jess than  
once each month, The joint Committee shall review  
matters involving Civil Rights and advise with the  
Company and the Union conceming them, but shall have  
fo jurisdiction over the filing or processing of grievances.  
This provision shall not affect any existing right to file a  
grievance nor does it enlarge the time limits lor filing and  
processing grievances.  
Tha tepresentatives of the Company and the Union shall  
conlinué to provide each other with such advance notice  
as is reasonable under tha circumstances on all matlers  
of importance in the administration of the terms of this  
Labor Agreemeni, including changes or innovations  
affecting ihe relations between the loca! parties.  
    
### ARTICLE il - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
Section 1  
   
### ARTICLE i  
### SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
Scope.  
This Agreament relates only to the Riverdale Plant of the  
Company located at Riverdale, Illinois.  
Section 2  
(A)  
(B)  
Coverage.  
The term "“amployee,” as used in this Agreement, applies  
to all hourly paid employees of the Company at its  
Riverdale Plant, excluding Division Managers, Assistant  
Division Managers, Designing Engineers, Area ang Shift  
Managers, Assistant Managers, and any other  
supenisory employses with authority to hire or fire or  
otherwise effect changes in the status of an employee or  
elfectively recommend such action, watchmen,  
timekeepers, office, clerical, and restaurant employees,  
When Management establishes a new or changed job in  
ihe plant so that duties involving a significant amount of  
production or maintenance work, ar both, which is  
periormed on a job within the bargaining unit (or, in the  
case of naw work, would be performed on such a job} are  
combined with duties not normatly performed on a job  
within the bargaining unit, the resuiling job in the plant  
shail be considered as within the bargaining unii. This  
provision shall not be construed as enlarging or  
diminishing whatever rights exist in tespect of withdrawal  
non-bargaining unit duties from a job in the bargaining  
unit, provided that where nor-bargaining unit duties are  
placed in a job in the bargaining unit under this provision,  
such duties may be withdrawm at any time. Management  
shall, on request, furnish to the Union reasonable  
### ARTICLE lf - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
(C)  
information to pernit determination of questions of  
compliance with this provision.  
The parties recognize the seriousness of the prablems  
associated with contracting out work both inside and  
outside the plant and have accordingly agreed as follows.  
The parties have existing rights and contractual  
understandings with respect to contracting oul. in  
addition, the following provisions shall be applicable to all  
contracting ou! issues subject to, and arising on oF atier  
the effective date of, this Agreement.  
1 Basic Prohibition  
in determining whether work should be  
contracted out or accomplished by the bargaining  
unit, the guiding principle is that work capable of  
being performed by bargaining unit employees  
shall be pertormed by such employess.  
Accardingly, the Company will nat contract out  
any work for performance inside or outside the  
plant unless it damonstrates that such work  
meets ane of the following exceptions.  
2. Exceptions  
a. Work In the Plant  
(1) Production, service, all maintenance  
and repair work, all instalation,  
replacement and reconstruction of  
equipment and productive facilities,  
other than that listed in Subparagraph  
2a(2) below, ail within a plant, may be  
contracted out Wf (1} the consisient  
practice has been to have such work  
   
### ARTICLE I - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
(2)  
performed by employees of  
contractors and (2) it is mare  
reasonable (within ihe meaning of  
Paragraph 3 below} for the Company  
to contract Oui such work than 10 use  
its own employees.  
Major new consiructton, induding  
major installation, major replacement  
and major reconstruction of  
équipment and productive facilities at  
the plant, may be contracted out  
subject to any rights and obligations  
of tha parties which, as of the  
beginning of the period commencing  
August t, 1963, are appticable at the  
piant. A project shall be deemed  
Major so as to fall within the scope of  
this exception il it is shown by the  
Company thal ihe project is of 4  
grander or larger scale when  
compared to ather bargaining  
unil forces al the plant are normally  
@xpecied to do. Such comparison  
should be made in light of atl relevant  
factors.  
As regards to the term ‘new  
construction” above, except for work  
done on equipment or systems  
pursuant to a manutacturer’s war-  
ranty, work that is of a peripheral  
nature to major new construction,  
including major instalation, major  
replacement and major reconsiruction  
of equipment and production facilities,  
and which does not concern ihe main  
body of work shail be assigned to  
7  
oar =  
_f -  
  
   
### ARTICLE || - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
employees within the bargaining unit  
unless it is more reasonable to  
contract out such work taking into  
cansideration the factors set forth in  
Paragraph 3 below or it is otherwise  
mutually agreed. For purposes of this  
provision, the term “work of a  
peripheral may in certain  
instances include, but not be fimited  
demolition, site preparation, road  
building, utility hook-ups, pipe lines  
and any work which is not integral to  
ihe main body.  
b. Work Outside the Plant  
(1)  
Should the Company contend that  
maimenance or repair work lo be  
performed outside the plant or work  
associated with the fabricating of  
goods, materials or equipment  
purchased or leased from a vendor or  
supplier should be excepied from ihe  
prohibitions of this Section, the  
Company must demonstrate that it is  
more reasonable (within the meaning  
of Paragraph 3 below) for the  
Company fo contract for such work  
(inctuding the purchase or lease of  
ihe item) than to use its own  
employees to perform the work or to  
fabricate Ihe item.  
Notwithsianding the above, the  
Company may purchase siandard  
OF paris of supply items,  
mass produced for sale generally  
(‘shelf items"). No item shall be  
8  
   
### ARTICLE tl - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
(2)  
deamed a standard component of  
part or supply item if iis fabrication  
requires the use of prints, sketches or  
manufacturing instructions supplied by  
ihe Company or at its behest or it is  
otherwise made according to  
Company spacitications.  
Production work may be periormed  
oulside the plant only where tha  
Company demonstrates that it is  
unabla because of lack of capital to  
invest in necessary aquipment or  
facilities, and that il has a continuing  
commitment to the  
business. In determining whether  
there is capital to invest in particular  
equiprnent or facilities, the Company  
is entitled 14 make reasonable  
judgments about the allocation of  
scarce capital resources among its  
plants.  
c. Mutual Agreement  
Work contracted out by mutual  
agreement oj the parties pursuani to  
Paragraph 6 below.  
a. Reasonableness  
in determining whether it is more for  
ihe Campany to cantract out work than use iis own  
employees,  
considered:  
the following factors shall be  
a, Whether the hargaining uni will be  
adversely impacted.  
9  
ome  
  
### "ARTICLE Il - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
b.  
d.  
The necassily for hiring new employees  
shal not be deemed a negative factor  
except for work of a temporary nature.  
Desirability of recalling employees on tayoff.  
Availability of qualified empioyees (whether  
or on layoff) for a duration long  
enough to complete the work.  
Availability of adequate quatified supervision.  
Availability of required equipment eliher on  
hand or by lease or purchase, provided that  
either the capital outlay for ihe purchase of  
such equipment, or the expanse of leasing  
such equipmeni, is not an unteasonable  
in alt (he Groumstances al the  
time the proposed decision is made.  
The expected duration of the work and the  
ime constraints associated with the work.  
Whether the decision to contract out the  
work is made (to avoid any obligation under  
ihe collective bargaining agreement or  
benefits agreements therewith.  
Whether the work is covered by a warranty  
necessary io protect tha  
invesiment. For purposes of this  
subparagraph, warranties are intended to  
include work performed for the limited time  
necessary to make aflective the lollowing  
seller guaraniees:  
{1} Manufacturer quarantaas that new or  
rehabilitated equipment or systems  
10  
### ETSY —— LCL  
### ARTICLE ti - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
are free of erors in  
workmanship or design.  
(2) Manufacturer guarantees that new or  
rehabilitated or systems  
will perform at stated levels of  
partormance and/or afficiency  
Subsequent to installation.  
Warranties are commitments  
associated with a particular product or  
service in ordet to assure that seller  
representations will be honored at no  
additional cost to the Company. Long-  
term service contracts are not  
warranties for the puspases of this  
subparagraph.  
j. In the case of work associated with leased  
equipment, whether such equipment is  
available a commitment to use the  
employees of outside contractors or lessors  
for its operation and maintenance.  
k. Whetter, in connection with the subject work  
or generally, the Local Union is willing to  
waive or hag waived festrictive working  
conditions, practices or jurisdictional rules  
(al within the meaning of “local working  
conditions" and the authority provided by  
this Agreement).  
4. Contracting Oul Cominittee  
a <A ‘eguiany constituted commitice  
consisting of not more than four persons  
{except that the committee may be enlarged  
to six persons by focal agreement}, half of  
11  
   
### ARTICLE 1] - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
5.  
whom shall be members of the bargaining  
unit and designated by the Union in writing  
to the Plani Management and the other half  
designated in writing to the Union by the  
Fiant Management, shall atlempt to resolve  
problems in connection with ihe operation,  
application and administration of the  
foregoing provisions.  
b. _— In addition to the of Paragraph  
5 below, such committee may discuss any  
other current problems with respect to  
contraciing out brought fo the attention of  
the commities.  
Such committea shall meat at least one lime  
each month.  
Notice and information  
Befora the Company finally decidas to contract out  
an iiem of work as io which it claims the right to  
contract out, the Union committes members will be  
notified. Except as provided in Paragraph 8 below  
(Sheil item Procedure), such notice will be given in  
time to pennit the Union to invoke the  
Expedited Procedure described in Paragraph 7  
below, unless emergency silvations prevent it.  
Such notica shall be in writing and shall be  
sufficiant to advise the Union members of the  
committee of the location, type, scope, duration  
and timetable of the work to be performed $a that  
the Union members of the committee can  
adequately form an opinion as to ihe reasons lor  
such contracting out. Such notice shall generally  
contain the information set lorih below:  
a. Location of work.  
12  
   
### ARTICLE Il - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
b. Type ol work:  
(1} Service  
(2) Maintenance  
{3} Major Rebuilds  
(4) New Construction  
c, Detailed description of the work.  
d, Crafts or occupations involved.  
e. Estimated duration ot work.  
t. Anticipated utilization of bargaining unit  
forces during the period.  
y. on operations if work nat complated in  
limely fashion.  
& jorm notice has been developed for the  
submission of the information described above.  
Either the Union mambers of the committee or the  
Company members of the committee may Convene  
@ prompt meeling of the committee. Should the  
Union committes members believe a to be  
necessary, thay shall so request the Company  
members in writing within five (5) days (excluding  
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) afier of  
such notice and such a meeling shall be held  
within three (3) days Saturdays,  
Sundays and holidays) thereafter, The Union  
members of the may include in the  
mesiing the Union representative trom the area in  
which the problern arises. At such meeting, the  
pasties should review in detail the pians for the  
13  
   
### ARTICLE li) - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
work io be performed and the reasons for  
contracting oul such work. Upon their request, the  
Union members of the committee will be provided  
any and all relevant information in the Company's  
possession relating to the reasonableness factors  
set forth in Paragraph 3 above. Included among  
ihe informatian to be made available to the  
commitiee shall be the opportunity to review copies  
of any relevant proposed contracts wath the outside  
contractor, Ths information will be kept  
contidentiat. The Management members of the  
commities shail give fult consideration to any  
comments or suggestions by the Union members  
of the commiltee and to any alternate ptans  
proposed by Union members lor ihe performance  
of the work by bargaining unit personnel. Except in  
emergency situations, such discussions, il  
requesied, shall take place before any final  
decision is made as io wheiher or not such work  
will be contracted out.  
Should the Company committee members fail to  
give notice a provided above, then nol later than  
thirty (30) days from the date of the  
commencement of the work a grievance relating to  
such matter may be filed under the complaint and  
gravance procedure. Should it be found in the  
arbitration of a grievance alleging a faitura of ihe |  
Company to provide the notice or information  
required under this Paragraph 5 that such notice or  
information was not provided, Ihat the failure was  
not due lo an emergency requirement, and that  
such failure deprived ing Union of a reasonable  
opportunity to sugges! and discuss practicable  
alternatives to contracting oul, the arbitrator shall  
have the authority ta fashion a remedy, al his  
discretion, that he deams appropriaie to ihe  
arcumsiances of the particulat case. Such  
14  
   
### ARTICLE It - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
remedy, i1 afforded, may include eamings and  
benefits to grievanis who would have performed  
the work, if they can be reasonably identified.  
Notwithstanding any other provision of this  
Agreemeni, where, at this plant, it is found that the  
Campany {j) cammitted violations of Paragraph §  
thal demonsirate willful conduct in violation of the  
notice provision or constituies a patiem of conduct  
of repeated violations or (ii} violated & cease and  
desist order previously issued by the arbitrator in  
connection with a violation of Paragraph 5, the  
arbitrator may, as circumstances warrant, fashion  
a suitable remedy or penally.  
Mutual Agreement snd Disputes  
The committee may resolve ihe matter by mutually  
agresing thal the work in question either shall or  
stall not be contracted out. Any such resolution  
shall be final and binding but only as to tha matter  
under consideration and shalt not affect future  
delaminations under this Section.  
If the matter is nol resolved, or it no discussion is  
held, the dispute may be processed further in  
accordance with either of Ihe faliowing:  
a. _ By filing a grievance retating to such matter  
under the complaint and grievance  
procedure dascribed in Article V; of  
b. By submitting the matter to the Expedited  
Procedure set out in Paragraph 7 below.  
Expedited Procedure  
In the event that either the Union or Company  
15  
### ARTICLE § - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
members of ihe committee request an expedited  
resolution of any aztsing under this Section,  
except Paragraph 8 (Shelf item Procedure), it shail  
be submitied io the Expedited Procedure in  
accordance with the following;  
tn all cases except those involving  
day-to-day maintenance and repair work and  
service, iha Expediied Proceduré shall be  
implemenied prior to letting a binding  
coniract.  
Within three (3) days (excluding Saturdays,  
Sundays and holidays) alter either the Unian  
or Company members of the committed  
determine that the committee cannot resolve  
the dispute, either party (Chairman of the  
Grievance in the case of the  
focal Union and the Manager of Human  
Resources in the case of the Company) may  
advise the other in writing that it is invoking  
this Expedited Procedure.  
An expedited arbitration must be scheduled  
within three (3) days {excluding Saturdays,  
Sundays and holidays} of such notice and  
heard at a hearing commencing within live  
(5) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and  
holidays) thereatter. An arbitrator shall hear  
the dispute and such arbitrator shall be  
selected by mutual agreement of the Step  
No. 4 reprasentative of the Union and tha  
Siep No. 4 representative of the Company.  
The arbitrator must render a decision within  
forty-eight (48} hours (exctuding Saturdays,  
Sundays and holidays) of the conclusion of  
the hearing. Such decision shall noi be  
15  
   
### ARTICLE tt - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
cited as a precadent by either party in any  
futuré contracting out dispute.  
Notwithsianding any other provision of this  
Agreement, any case heard in the Expedited  
Procedure belore the work in dispute was  
pestormed may be reopened by the Union in  
accordance with this paragraph if such work,  
as actually periomed, vatiad in any  
substantial respect from the description  
presentad in arbitration, except where the  
difference involved a good faith variance as  
io the magnitude of the project. The request  
to tha case must be submitted within  
seven {7} days of the date on which the  
Union knew or should have known of the  
variance and shail contain & summary of the  
ways in which tha work as actually  
performed differed fram the description  
presenied in arbilration. As soon as  
practicable alter receipt of a request to  
reopen, an arbitration hearing date shail be  
scheduled. In a tase reapened pursuant to  
this paragraph, the arbitrator shall determine  
whether the work in dispute, as it actually  
was performed, violated the provisions of  
Section C and, if $0, the remedy. The prior  
decision reqarding the subject work shall be  
considered in the delerminabon and given  
weight in the subsequent dispute, except to  
the exteni that it relied on an efroneous  
description.  
No testimony offared by an outside  
may be considered in any  
proceeding alleging a violation of Section C  
unless the party calling the contractor  
provides the other party with a copy of each  
17  
### ARTICLE Il - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
contractor document to be offered at least  
forty-eight (48) hours (excluding Saturdays,  
Sundays and holidays} before tha  
commencement of the haaring.  
6. Sheff ttem Procedure  
   
a.  
No laler than July 1, 1994, and, except as  
provided herein, annually thereafter, the  
Company shall provide the Union members  
of the Committes with a lisi anc description  
Oo! anticipated angoing purchases of each  
itam which the Company claims to be a  
sheli item within ihe meaning ol  
Subparagraph 2b{1) above. Ii the Union  
members of the committes so request, the  
fist ehall not include any item included on a  
previous list where the status of that ler,  
as a shelf item, has been expressly  
resolved. Within sixty (60) days of the  
submission of the list, either the Union  
members of the committee or the Company  
members may convene a prompt meeting of  
the committee to discuss and review Ihe list  
of! items and, if requested, tha facts  
underying the Company's ctaim that such  
iiems are shelf items.  
The commiltes may resolve the matter by  
mutually agreeing that the item in question  
either is or is not a shetl item. With respect  
to any fem as to which the Union members  
ol ihe committee agree with the Company's  
claim that ii is a shell item, the Company  
shall be relieved of any obligation to fumish  
a coniracting out notice until the July 1 next  
following such Agreement and therealter, if  
ihe Union has requested thai a resolved  
18  
   
### ARTICLE SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
item be deleted from ihe shell item fist in  
accordance with (8a) above.  
¢. } the matter is noi resofved, any dispute  
may be processed further by filing, within  
thirty (30) days of the date of the last  
discussion, a gnevance in Step 3 of the  
complaint and grievance procedure  
described in Anicie V. Except as provided  
in below, such a grievance shall include  
all items in dispute. However, whete a  
number of items raise the same or similar  
issues, those items may be grouped in a  
single class or category.  
d. = An item which the Company cfatms to ba a  
shelf item, but which was not included on  
the list referred to above because no  
purchase was anticipated, shal! be listed  
and described on a contracting aut notice  
provided to the Union noi later than the  
reguiany scheduled meeting of the Con-  
tracting Out Carnmittes next following  
purchase of the item. the parties  
shall lallow the procedures set forth in  
Subparagraphs (8b) and (6c) above.  
e. The Union may file a grievance in ac-  
cordance with Paragraphs 6 or 7 af this  
Section C with respect to any unresoived  
item of maintenance, repair work or work  
associated with the fabrication of goods,  
material or equipment performed outside the  
plant notwithstanding the inciusion of such  
jtem on the shelf item list  
fumished to the Union by ihe Company,  
provided such grievance is filed within thirty  
(30) days of the date on which the Union  
19  
### ARTICLE Il - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
knew or should have known of the  
performance of the work.  
2, Annual Review  
Commencing on or before October 1 of each year,  
the Company committes members shall meet with  
tha Union members for the purpose of  
{i} reviewing all work whether inside or outside the  
plant which the Company anticipates may be  
performed by outside contractors or vendors at  
some time during the following calendar year, {ii)  
determining such work which should be performed  
by bargaining uni employees, and (ili) ideniitying  
situations where the elimination of restrictive  
praclices would promote the performance af any  
such work by bargaining unit employees. The  
Union committee members be entitled in  
conducting this study to review any current of  
proposed contracts concerning items of work  
performed by the Company by outside contractors  
and vendors and shall keep such information  
contidential.  
By ro later than November i of each year these  
Local Union and Company commitige members  
shall jointly submit @ written report to the Union  
and Company Co-Chairmen of the Negotiating  
Committae or their designees describing ihe results  
ot this review. Spacitfically, ihe rapon should list (a)  
all items of work which the parties agree will be  
by bargaining unit employees during the  
tollawing year, (b} all items of work which the  
parties agree should be performed by outside  
contractors and vendors, and (c} those iiemns on  
which the parties disagree. If the parties disagree,  
tha report will state the reason for such  
disagreements.  
20  
   
### ARTICLE It - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
(D)  
10.  
As to individual items of work, the Unian and  
Company of the Negotiating  
Committee or their designees may (a) affirm the  
plant recommendation, (b) disagree with respect io  
the plant recommendation as to specific items and  
either (I) refer their dispute to arbitration under a  
procedure to be established by the parties or (ti}  
fefar tha matters back to the plant without  
resolution in which event ihe specific disputes will  
be handled under the provisions of this section at  
the time ihey may arise,  
District Director/Vice_ President-Human  
Resources  
li is the intent of the parties that the members of  
the joint plant contracting out cammitiee shall  
engage in discussions of the problem in  
this fietd in a good-faith effort to arrive at mutual  
understandings so that disputes and grievances  
can be avorded. If aliher the Company or the Union  
members of the committee feel that this is not  
being done, they may appeal to the District  
Director of the Union and the Company's Vice  
Preskient-Human Resources for review of the  
complaint about the failure of the committee to  
properly function, Such appeal shall result in a  
prompt investigation by the District Director or his  
designated representative and the Company's Vice  
President-Human Resources or his designated  
representative for such review. This provision  
should in no way affect ihe rights of the parties in  
connection with the processing of any grievance  
relating to the subject of contracting out.  
An employee who is assigned as a temporary Shift  
Manager as of the effective date of this Agraement,  
or who is thereafter so assigned, shall not cease ta  
21  
   
### ARTICLE Il - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
ba an employee, although assignment io such  
position and the ierms and conditions of  
employment applicable to the pasition shall  
continue to be solely as determined by the  
Company.  
Such assignments shall be limited ta:  
a. The short-term absence of a Shift Manager  
for reasons such as sickness, jury duty, or  
vacation;  
b. A Shift Manager position resulting trom  
increases in operating requirements over  
and above normal tevels. Such a position  
shall not be filled by the assignment of any  
employee as temporary Shifi Manager for  
a period in excess of ten consecutive  
months; provided, however, that such  
period shalt be extended iit view of special  
circumstances, Managenrant shall inform  
the Grievance Committeeman representing  
the department in which the position  
occurs oO! such extension;  
c. Twenty-first turn coverage on continuous  
operations.  
An employee assigned as a temporary Shift  
Manager on a weekly basis will not work in the  
bargaining unit during the week in which he is  
assigned as a temporary Shift Manager. An  
employee will not be assigned as a temporary Shift  
Manager merely as a means of retaining him in  
employment or of recalling him from layoff at a  
lime when the application of his bargaining unit  
seniority would not otherwise result in his retention  
in employment.  
22  
   
### ARTICLE tl - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT  
(E)  
4,  
An employee assigned as a temporary Shilt  
Manager wil not issue discipline to employees,  
provided that this provision will not prevent a  
temporary Shift Manager trom relieving an  
employee from work for the balance of the tum for  
alleged miscondual, An employee will not be  
called by either party in the grievance procedure or  
arbitration to iastify as a witness regarding any  
events involving discipline which occurred while the  
employee was assigned as a temporary Shift  
Manager.  
Any supervisor at the plant shatt not perform work on a job  
normally performed by an employee in the bargaining unit  
al the plant; however, this provision shall not be  
consinued to prohibit supervisors from performing the  
foliowing types of work:  
1.  
2.  
Expenmenial wosk;  
Demonstration work performed for the purpose of  
instructing and training employees;  
Work required of the supervisors by emergency  
conditions which if not performed might rasutt in  
inierferance with operations, bodily injury, or loss  
or damage to materia! or equipment; and  
Work which, under the circumsiances then existing,  
it would be unreasonable ta assign to a bargaining  
unit employee and which is negligible in amount.  
lf a Supervisor performs work in violation of this Articis Ul,  
Section 2(E)}, and the employee who otherwise would have  
performed this work can reasonably be identified, the  
Company shall pay such employee the applicable siandard  
hourly wage rate for the time involved or for four hours,  
whichever is greater.  
23  
### ARTICLE I} - MANAGEMENT  
### ARTICLE iil  
### MANAGEMENT  
The company shail manage the plant and direct the working forces. The  
management of the plant includes the righi to plan, dwect and contral  
plant operations, to hire, to discipline, suspend or discharge employees  
for proper cause, to transfer, lo relieve from duty because of  
lack of work or for other legitimate reasons, and the right to introduce  
new or improved production methods or facilities, or to change existing  
Production methods or facilities, provided that such authority shall not be  
exerdsed so as to conflict with any of the other provisions of this  
Agreement.  
   
24  
   
### ARTICLE IV - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECKOFF  
### ARTICLE IV  
### UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECKOFF  
   
Section 1 Union Mambership.  
{A} Each employee who on the effective date of this  
Agreement is a member ol the Union in good standing  
and each emplayee who becomes a member after that  
date shall, as 2 condition of employment, maintain his  
membership in the Union.  
(B} Each employee hired on or after January 27, 1960, shall,  
as a condition of amployment, beginning on the 30th day  
ihe beginning of such amployment or the  
ettective date of this Agreement, whichever is the later,  
acquire and maintain membership in the Union.  
(C) On or delore the last day of each month, the Union shall  
submit to the Company a notarized lis! showing  
separately for each plant, the name, department symbal,  
and check or badge number of each employee who shall  
have become a member of the Union in goad standing  
other than pursuant to (B) above since the last previous  
list of such members was furnished to the Company. The  
Company shall continue to rely upan the membership jists  
which have been certified to it by the Union, subject to  
revision by the addition of new members certified to it by  
the Union between such date and the date of this  
Agreement and to the detetion of the names of  
employees who have withdrawn from membership during  
such period.  
For the purposes of this Section, an employee shalt nat  
be deemed to have lost his membership in the Union in  
good standing until the intemational Treasurer of the  
Union shall have determined that the membership of such  
25  
   
### ARTICLE IV - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECKOFF  
employee in tha Union is not in good standing and shall  
have given the Company a notice in writing of that fact.  
{D) In states in which the foregoing provisions may not  
jawtully be enforced, the following provisions, to the  
extent that they are lawful, shall apply:  
Each employee who would be required to acquire or  
maintain membership in the Union if the foregoing Union  
securily provisions cauld lawfully be enforced, and who  
fails voluntarily to acquire or mainiain membership in the  
Union, shall be required, as a condition of employment,  
beginning on the 30th day following ihe beginning of such  
employment or the date of this Agreement, whichever is  
later, to pay to the Union each month a service charge as  
a contribution toward the administration of this Agreement  
and the representation of such employees. The service  
charge for the firs! month shail be in an amount equal to  
the Union's and usual initiation fee and monthly  
dues, and for each month thereaiter in an amount equal  
to the regular and usual monthly dues.  
(E) The foregoing provisions shail be effective in accordance  
and consistent wilh applicable provisions of federal and  
state law.  
Section 2 Checkoff.  
(A) The Company will check off monthly dues, assess-  
ments, and fees, each as designaled by the  
international Treasurer of the Union, as membership dues  
in the Union on the basis ol individually signed voluntary  
checkoft authorization cards in forms agreed to by the  
Company and the Union.  
(B) Al the time of his employment, the Company wil suggest  
that each new employee votuntanl execulia an  
26  
_  
### ARTICLE I¥ - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECKOFF  
authorization for the checkoff of Union dues in the form  
agreed upon. A copy of such authorization card for the  
checkoff of Union dues shall be forwarded to the  
Financial Secretary of the Union atong with the  
membership application of such employee.  
(C} New checkoif authorization cards other than those  
provided for by (8) above will be submitted to the  
Campany through the Financial Secretary of the Local  
Union at intervals no more frequent than once each  
month, On or before ihe last day of each month, the  
Union shall submil to the Company a summary list of  
cards transmitied in each month,  
(D) Deductions on the basis of authorization cards submitted  
to the Company shall commence with respact to dues for  
the month in which the Company taeceivas such  
authorization card or in which such card becomes  
effective, is later. Dues for a given month shall  
be deducted from the first pay closed and calculated in  
the succeeding month.  
(E) In cases of eamings insufficient to cover deductions of  
dues, the dues shall be deducted from the next pay in  
which there are sufficient eamings, or a double  
may be made irom the first pay ol the foltowing month;  
provided, however, that the accumulation of dues shall be  
limited to two months and that no dues shall be deducted  
from an employee unless that employee has received  
gamings equivalent to five days pay in the month. Tha  
Intemational Treasurer of the Union shail be provided  
with 4 list of thase employees for whom double deduction  
has been made.  
(F} The Union will be notified of the reason for non-  
transmission of dues in case of layoff, discharge,  
resignation, eave of absence, sick leave, retirement,  
death, or insufficient earnings.  
27  
= as - . ‘= =  
   
### ARTICLE IV - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECKOFF  
(G} Unless the Company is otherwise notified, the only Union  
membership dues to be deducted for payment to the  
Union from the pay of ihe employee who has fumished  
an authorization shall ba the monthly Union dues. The  
Company will deduct initiation fees when notified by  
molation on the lists refarred to in Paragraph (C) of this  
Section and assessments as designated by the  
international Treasurer, With respect  
authorization cards submitted direcily to the Company,  
the Company will deduct initiation fees unless specifically  
requested not io de so by the Intemational Treasurer of  
the Union alter such checkolf authorizalion cards have  
become elfective. The Intemational Treasurer of the  
Union shall be provided with a list of those employees for  
whom initiation fees have been deducted under this  
paragraph.  
(H)} The pariies will make mutually satisfactory arrangements  
19 insure that those employees who have signed  
checkoff authorizations will be picked up sa fong as the  
Company is not required to compile additional records.  
{}} The parties shall make such as may be  
necessary lo adapi the foregoing checkolt provisions to  
lhe checkoif of the service charge referred to in Section  
1{D) above, pursuant to voluntary authorizations therefor.  
(J) The provisions of this Section shall be eflective in  
accordance and cansistent with applicable provisions of  
federal law.  
   
### ARTICLE iV - UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECKOFF  
### Section 3 Indemnity Clause.  
The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless  
against any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of  
liability that shalt arise out of or Dy of action taken or not  
taken by the Company for the purpose of complying with any of  
ihe provisions of this or in reliance on any list, notice, or  
furnished under any of such provisions.  
29  
   
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
### ARTICLE V  
### ADJUSTMENT OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
Section 1 Purpose.  
The purpose of this Articia is {1} to provide opportunity for  
discussion of any complaint, and (2) to establish procedures for  
the processing and settlement of grievances, as defined in  
Section 2 of this Article.  
Sectlan 2 Detinitions.  
“Camplaint,“ as used in this Agreement, shall be interpreted to  
mean a request or complaint.  
“Grievance,” as used in this Agreement, is limited to a complaint  
ol an employee which involves the interpretation or application of,  
or compliance with the provisions of this Agreement.  
“Day,” as used in this Article V, shall mean calandar day, but shall  
not include any Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, unless otherwise  
indicated herein.  
Section 3 Union Grievance Committee.  
(A) The Company will recognize not more than sixteen (16)  
nor less than five (5) Comenitteemen (including the  
Chairman and Assistant Chairman) selected by the Unian.  
Committee members will be alforded such time off without  
pay as may be to:  
{1} Attend scheduled Commitiee meetings which  
shall be held not less than once each month  
{unless by agreemem between the Grievance  
Commities and Management, no monthly  
meeting is required);  
30  
   
### ARTICLE V - ADJ, OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
(8)  
{C}  
{2) Attend meetings pertaining to suspension or  
discharge or other matiers which cannot  
reasonably be delayed until ihe time of the next  
meeting; and  
(3) Visit sections other than thelr own at all  
reasonable times lor the purpose of transacting  
the legitimate business of the ‘Grievance  
Committee after notice to the supervisor of the  
saciion to be visited and permission from their  
supervisor, of his designated representative.  
Where the Grevance Committee so dacides, Assistant  
Gravance Commilteemen may be designated by the  
Union in any divsion to aid ihe Grievance Committee.  
The Unien may designate up to two (2) alternate  
Assistant Grievance Committeemen to replace a  
Grievanca Committeeman who is absent on leave of  
absence of vacation. The total number of  
Grievance Cammitteemen and Grievance  
shall nol exceed twenty-six {26}.  
Each Assistant Grievance Commitieeman shali be an  
amployee of the division which he represents. Each  
Assistant Grievance Commitieeman shall:  
(1) Be limited to the handling of compiaints in  
procedural Steps 1 and 2 within the division  
represented Oy him; ard,  
(2) Upan notice to and approval by his  
immediate supervisor and the supervisor of the  
afea he desires to visit, be allorded such time off  
without pay as may be required for the purpose  
ol invasiigating the facts essential to the  
settlement of any cornplaint or grievance.  
The Company will grant Union officers, Grevance  
a  
   
_  
—  
  
### ARTICLE V - ADJ, OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
(D)  
Section 4  
Commiiteernen and Assisianl Grievance Commitieeme  
time off, without pay, to attend official Union  
whenever such time off may be granted without serious  
interfering with production. The Union will notify th  
Company as far in advance as possible of any reques!  
10 be off for such meetings and, whenever possible, ¢  
feast {24} hours irom the date and time ol th  
meetings.  
The Union will notify the Company in writing of the name:  
of the Grievance Committeamen, Assistant  
Cammitieemen, ard Union officers and ihe Company wil  
only recognize the employees who are so designated by  
ihe Union.  
Complaint and Grievance Procedure.  
Step 1+ Oral. - Any employee who believes that he hag a  
justiiable complaint shalt discuss the complaint with his  
supervisor, with of without ihe Grievance or Assistani  
Grievance Committeeman being praesent, as the  
employes may in an to seitle same.  
However, any such employee may instead, if he so  
desires, report ihe matier directly to hig Grievance of  
Assistant Grievance Committeeman and, in such event,  
the Grevance or Assistant Grievance Commilteeman,  
li he Pelieves the pompiaint merits discussian, shall  
take it up with the employee's supervisor in a sincere  
effort to resolve the problem. Tha employes invotved  
should be present in such discussion fl he is available.  
the supervisor and the Grievance or Assistant  
Grievance Commitieeman, after fult discussion in a  
meeting, feet the need for aid in arriving at a solution,  
they may, by agreement, invile such additional  
Company or Union representatives or witnasses from  
ine plant as may be necessary and available to  
a2  
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS ANDO GRIEVANCES  
participate in further discussion. Such additional  
participants shall noi reliave the supervisor and  
Grievance or Assistant Grevance Commilteeman from  
responsiblity far solving the complaint. The supervisor  
shall have authority to the complaint. The  
Grievance or Assistant Grievance shall  
have aulhovity to seltie, withdraw, or refer the complaint  
as provided below.  
The foregoing procedure of direct communication and  
discussion should result in a full disclosure of facts and  
a fair and speedy rasolution of most of the complaints  
arising out of day-to-day operations of the plant. The  
of a complaint in Siep 1 shal be without  
prajudice to the position of aither party.  
Whenever either party notifies the other further  
discussion of the complaint cannot contribute to its  
sattlement, the supervisor shali then have not more  
than 3 days to give his oral response to the complaint.  
if a complaint is not settled in Step 1, the Grievance or  
Assistant Grievance Committeeman can refer il to Step  
2 by compteting a ComplainvGrievance Form, on forms  
furnished by the Company, which shall among oiher  
items includa the “General Data,” the “Contractual  
Provision(s) Relied Upon,” a “Brief Description of  
the “Date of First Step 1 Discussion," and  
ihe signatures of the and the  
employee(s), within 3 days of the supervisor's oral  
response. The supervisor shall note the “Date of Step  
1 Response,” check the appropriate “Step 1  
Response," note the "Date Relerred to Step 2° and  
sign and date the Complaint/Grievance Form and  
retum the completed white, pink and green pages to  
the commilteeman.  
33  
   
### AATICLE V - ADJ. CF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
Step 2 -  
Oral. - A complaint received in Step 2 shalt be dis-  
cussed in an atlempt of setllament at a mutually  
convenient time between the Grievance or Assistant  
Grievance Committaeman and the Division Manager of  
the division or his representative and answered within  
10 days from the date of teferral. The Grievance or  
Assistant Grievance Committeaman and the Division  
Manager or his representative shall be responsible for  
conducting the Sieap 2 hearing. Step 2  
should aiso indudsé, unless otherwise agreed, the  
involved employee and supervisor. Either parly may  
call witnesses who are employees of the Company and  
whose attendance shall be limited to time required for  
their testimony. The parlies shall note the "Date of  
First Siep 2 Discussion” on the  
Form,  
The Step 2 participants may, by agreement, invite to  
participate in the discussion such additional  
representalives from the plant as may be available tor  
aid but such additional participants shail not relieve the  
or Assistant Grievance Committeeman and  
the Division Manager or his representative from  
responsibility for solving thé problem. To facilitate such  
discussion, the Siep 2 participants may extend the time  
herein.  
The Division Manager or iis representative shal! have  
the auihority to settle the complaint, The Grevance or  
Assisiant Grisvanca Committeeman shall have the  
authority to sete or withdraw the complaint, or file a  
grievance in witing as provided below,  
Whenever either party concludes thal the discussion af  
the complaint in Step 2 cannoli coniribute to its  
ihe other party shall ba so notified. Upon  
such notice, the Division Manager or his representative  
34  
   
### AATICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
Step 3 -  
shall give his response to the complaint by proper  
notation on the ComplainvGrievance Form within five  
(5) days of such notice. The Division Manager or his  
fepreseniative shall sign the Complaint/Grevance Form  
and note the date of his Step 2 response. The  
Grievance or Assistant Grievance Commiteeman shall  
sign and date the Form on the  
date he received the Step 2 response. The Grievance  
or Assistant Grievance Committeeman shall then retain  
the white, pink, and grean pages and the Division  
Manager or his representative will retain the yellow  
page and send the blue page to the Human Resources  
Departinent.  
The resolution of a complaint in Step 2 shall be without  
prejudice to the position of either party, unlass  
otherwise agreed lo by ihe parties. Il the complaint is  
seliled or withdrawn in Step 2, the Complaint Form  
shall be so noted by tha signature of the Step 2  
reprasentalives and the date thereol.  
It the complaint is not settled in Step 2, the Union may,  
consistent with Section 2 above, appeal the complaint  
to Step 3 as a grievance in accordance with the  
provisions of ‘Step 3 - Written.” in onder ta be  
atherwise aligtble for appeal to Step 3 as a gnevance,  
the Complaini/Grevance Form shall be properly  
completed.  
Written, - In order ta be considered further, the  
complaint must be appealed to Step 3 by the Chairman  
or Assistant Chairman of the Grevanoe Committee te  
the Manager of Human Resources his  
representative within 10 days of the Grievance or  
Assistant Grievance Committesman’s receipt of the  
Division Manager's Step 2 response. The Chairman or  
Assistant Chairman of the Grievance Committee shall  
35  
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
sign and date the ComplainvGrievance Form where  
indicated and thé Manager of Human Resources or his  
representative shall sign and data the  
ComplainvGrievance Form where indicated signifying  
receipt of tha Step 3 Appeal and the date thereof.  
Grievances subject to filing directly into Step 3 shall be  
presented on ine ComplainvGrievance Form wiih the  
“General Data," Contractual Provision(s} Relied Upon,”  
and “Grief Description of Grievance’ sections  
appropriately completed by the Union and shail include  
the signature(s) of the agrieved employee(s), unless  
otherwise specified in this Agreament. The Chairman  
or Assistant Chainnan of the Grievance Committee  
shall file such a gnevance with ihe Manager of Human  
Resources of his representative in a timely manner.  
The Chairman or Assistant Chairman of the Grievance  
Commitiee shall sign and date the  
ComplainvGrievanca Form where indicated and the  
Manager of Human Resources or his representative  
shall sign and date the Form  
where indicated signifying receipt of the griavanca and  
the date of its filing.  
Such grievance shall be discussed within 10 days (or  
such jatar time as may be agreed) of the filing/appeal  
of the grievance at a spacial or regular meeting, The  
Grievance along with the Local Union  
President {if ha so desires) and the Manager of Human  
Resources and/or his representatives, shall have a  
monthly meeting at which, among other  
appropriate matiars, pending grievances in Step 3 shall  
be discussed, Either party may call witnesses who are  
employees of the Company and their altendance shall  
be limited to time required for their testimony. it  
additional facts are needed, the grievanca may be  
referred back to Step 2. in such a case, ihe parties  
shall have 10 days to amend the record, wheraupon it  
36  
   
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
shall be returned to Step 3 if remand did nol resut! in  
settlement.  
The Chairman ar Assistant Chairman of the Grievance  
Committee may alter the position of the Union and the  
provisions allagadly victated in Step 3 of the procedure.  
Grievances discussed in Step 3 shall be answered by  
the Manager of Human Resources or his  
in Slep 3 minutes, which shall be given  
to the Chairman or Assistant Chairman of the  
Grievance Committee within 15 days after the data ol  
the Step 3 meeling, unless a diferent date is Mutually  
agreed upon. The Step 3 minutes shall be added to  
and form a part of the writlan record. Five (5) copies  
shall be given fo the Union.  
Minutes of all Step 3 mestings shall be prepared by the  
Company tapresentative, jointly signed by him and the  
Chairman or Assistant Chairman. {f the Chairman or,  
acting in his place, the Assistant Chairman, shall  
disagree with the accuracy of the minutes as prepared  
by the Company, he shall set forth and sign his  
reasons for such disagreement on a form provided to  
the Union by the Company and the minutes, excep! for  
such disagreement, shall be regarded as to,  
Minutes shall contorm to the following general outline:  
a. Date and place of meeting.  
b. Names and positions of those  
Identifying and description ol sach  
griavance discussed.  
d. Background information and facts.  
Statement of Union Position, Any contract  
provisions cited at this step and reasons therefor;  
past grievances and/or awards of the Board cited;  
supporting evidence and atgumenis. To ensure  
37  
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
accuracy, this may be submitted by the Union in  
writing.  
f. Management Position. Full response  
to all claims, points of evidence, testimony and  
a@rpuments presented by the Union. Management  
testimony and evidence, inctuding past grievances  
and/or awards of the Board.  
Summary of the discussion.  
Decision reached.  
i. Statement as to decision was accepted or  
rejecied.  
72  
Compliance with the loregoing oulline shall be required  
only to the extent that such information i¢ not already  
a part of the written record.  
The Manager of Human Resources andor his  
representative shall have authority to seltle any  
giievance before him. The Chairman or, acting in his  
place, the Assistant Chairman of the Grievance  
Commities shail have authority to settle, withdraw, or  
recommend tor appeal to Step 4 o! the grievance  
procedure, any grievance before the Grievance  
  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5(B) below in  
appeals from Step 3 in exceptional cases where ihe  
Union can satisfactorily demonstrate that the failure of  
the Union fepresentative charged with the responsibitity  
for such appeal was caused by conditions justitiable  
under ihe citcumstances and does, in fact, appeal  
within 10 days Irom the date of the default, the appeal  
shail be accepted ag though it had been timely. The  
Company's liability for any retroactive payments  
rasulling from ihe application of the preceding senience  
shall exclude the period of the delay in the appeal.  
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
Step 4 -  
Written, - In order for a to be considered  
lurther, written nolice of appeal shall be served, within  
10 days after receipt of the Step 3 minutes, by the  
representative of the Union, certified to  
Management in writing, upon the representative of the  
Company, similary cectilied to the Union by ihe  
Company. No employes grievances shall be permitted  
to progress Into this Step without review by the Union's  
District Director or hia designated representative.  
Discussion of the appealed grievance shall take place  
at the earliest! date of mutual convenience follawing  
receipt of the notice of appeal, but not later than 3  
days ithereatter. Step 4 meetings shall not be  
postponed in unusual circumsiances. Any party  
requesting a postponement shall do so in  
giving the reason therefor and stating that the meeting  
shall take place al a prompt later date.  
Grevances discussed in such meeiing shall be  
answered, in writing, by the designated representative  
of tha Company within 10 days after the date of such  
unless by mutual agreement a different date  
for disposition is agreed upon. Such written answer  
shall contain a concise summary of each  
fapresentative’s contractual analysis of the issues  
presented by the grievance, the Company's answer,  
and shall form a pari of the written record.  
Either party may request a further statement of facts to  
be made available not tater than 3 days preceding the  
dale sal for the Step 4 meeting and either party may  
call witnesses whose attendance shall be restricted te  
the time required for their testimony. Except tor  
witnesses, the Step 4 maatings shall be limited io the  
designated representatives of the Company and the  
designated representative of the International Union  
39  
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
Section §  
(A)  
(B)  
and, as requested by the Intemational Representative,  
tha President of the Local Union, the Chairman and  
Assistant Chainnan of the Grievance Committee, and  
the Grievance Comrmitteeman.  
The designated representative of the Company shall  
have authority to settle the grievance. The designated  
of the Intemational Union shall have  
authority to settle, withdraw, or appeal the grievance to  
aroltration,  
Whenever either party concludes that furiher Step 4  
meeiings cannot conirbute to the settlement oj a  
grievance, the designated representailve of the  
Intemational Union may, by written notice served to the  
designaled representative of the Company within 30  
days from receipt of euch written record, appeal the  
grievance to arbitration.  
li the decision in this Step ls not appealed to asbitration  
as above provided, ihe grievance shall be considered  
settled on the basis of such decision and shall not be  
eligible for further appeal.  
General Provisions Applying to Complaints and  
Grievances.  
Except as may be oiherwise provided in this Agreement,  
any complaint (or grievance when filed directly in Step 3 or  
higher} shall be promptly after the date of the  
event upon which the complaint or grievance is based, or  
the date on which such event should reasonably have  
become known.  
At all steps in the complaint and grievance procedure, the  
and the Union representatives should disclose to  
the Company representatives a full and dataiied siatameni  
of the facts relied upon, the remedy sought, and ihe  
40  
   
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
(C}  
provisions of the Agreement ralied upon. in the same  
manner, Company representatives should disclose all the  
pertinent facts relied upon by tite Company.  
Complaints which allage violations directly affecting  
employees working under a particular Division Manager,  
but under mote than one supervisor, shall be discussed  
initially in Step 2.  
Grievances which allege violations directly affecting  
employees working under more than one Division Manager  
shall be initially filed directly in Step 4 in accordance with  
the provisions of “Step 3 - Weitten.”  
if a decision wilh respect la a complaint or a grievance is  
not referred or appealed in accordance with the time timits  
sei forth in each Step, tha matter shall be considered  
seitted on the basis of the decision fast made and shail not  
be eligibla for appeal.  
If ihe Company's discussion of answer to a complaint or a  
grievance is mot given within the prescribed time  
requirements in any Step, Ihe Union, alter notifying the  
Company, may reler or appeal to the next Step.  
in order to avoid the necessity of initiating multiple  
complaints or grievances on the same subject or event, or  
concerning ihe same alleged contract violation occurring on  
difigrent occasions, a single complaint or gnevance may be  
processed and the facts ol alleged additional violations  
(including the dates thereof} may be presented in the  
appropriate Step. Such additional claims shall be timely  
and additional shail sign a special form io be  
supplied by the Company for this purpose. When the  
original complaint or grievance is resolved in the grievance  
or arbitration procedure, the parties resolving such  
complaint or grievance (tha Fourth Step representatives it  
resolved by arbitration) shall review such pending claims in  
41  
   
### ARTICLE V - ADJ, OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
{D}  
(€)  
(G}  
the light of the decision in an effort to dispose of iham. If  
any such claim is not settled, il shail be considered as a  
complaint or grisvance and processed in accordance with  
the applicable procedure and the applicable time  
imitations. In case @ complaint involves a large group of  
employees, a reasonable number may participate in the  
discussion in Stap 1 and Step 2.  
Complaints or grievances which are no! initialed in the  
proper step of the and grievance shalt  
be referred to the proper step for discussion and answer by  
the Company and the Union representatives designated to  
handle complaints or grievances in such Step.  
The Chairman of, acting in his placa the Assistant  
Chairman, of the Grievance Commities may fila grievances  
in writing, if he believes this to be necessary, concerning  
allaged violations of Articte XIX, in contormity with the  
provisions of Article V except that the signatures of affected  
employees shai) not be  
In any involving retroactive payments, the  
appropriate Union and Company representatives shall  
expeditiously determine the Identity of the payees and the  
spacitic amount owed Bach payes. Payment shall be made  
prompily but, in any evant, wilhin 30 days after such  
determination.  
When a grievance contesting ihe propriety of a work  
assignment ls resolved, such resolution shall be binding on  
both pasties; Le., the Company shall not under the same  
clreunsiances or conditions require that the dispuied work  
again be perormed inconsistent wilh the grievance  
resolution. °  
in cases involving large numbers of employees, extended  
pariods of retiaactlvity or complex incentive applications, in  
order to expedita payment, the parties shall, wherever  
42  
   
### ARTICLE ¥ - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
possible, agree upon the identity of the payses and the  
specific procedures for ihe amounts owed or  
approximations of such amounts. Management  
commits itsell, following such agreement, to make payment  
at the earliest date in light of the procedures agreed upon  
and will, within two weeks following such agreement, notify  
the Grievance of the date when such payment  
will be made.  
{H) The Company agrees that it shall not subpoena or call as  
a witness in arbitration proceedings any bargaining unit  
employes. The Union agrees that i! shall not subpoena or  
call as a witness in such proceedings any non-bargalning  
unit employes.  
Section 6 nion Complaints or Grievances.  
The complaint and grievance may be ulilized by the  
Union in processing complaints or grievances which atlege a  
violation of the obligations of the Company to the Union as such.  
In processing such complaints or grievances, the Union shall  
observe the time limits in appealing and the Company  
shall observe the spécilied tinte limits in answering. Jn the event an  
employee dies, ihe Union may process on behall of his legal heirs  
any claim he would have had felating to any monies due under any  
provision of this Agreement.  
Section 7 Suspension of Complaint and Grievance Procedure.  
If this Agreement is by the occurrence of a strike, work  
stoppage, of interruption or impeding of work ai the plant or  
subdivision thareof, ne grievances shall be discussed or processed  
in the Third Step ievel or above in such plant while such violation  
continues, but under no shall any complaint or  
grievance concerning employees engaged in the violation be  
discussed or processad while such violation continues.  
43 .  
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
### Section 8 Waiver of Complaint end Grievance Procedure.  
Notwithstanding the procedure herein provided, any grievance may  
be submitted to arbitration at any time by agreement of the pariies  
to this Agreement.  
Section 9 Access to Plant,  
   
The District Director and the represeniative of the Union who  
customarily handles grievances from the plant in Step 4 shall have  
access to the plant, subject fo established rules of the plani, at  
teasonable times to investigate grievances with which he is  
concerned.  
Sectlon 10 Arbitration.  
   
There shall be a mutually agreed to permanent asbitrator who shali  
serve in accordance with the conditions and procedures mutually  
agreed upon by ihe parties, In the eveni a grievance is appealed  
to arbiifation in accordance wilh the provisions of this Article for  
filing notice of appeal fram @ decision in Step 4 when there is no  
permanent arbitrator, the parties shall meei for the purpose of  
agresing upon an arbitrator. If they are unable to reach such an  
agreement within ten (10) days after tha writtan request for  
arbitration, the Company and the Union shall jointly request the  
Chicago office of ihe Mediation and Conciliation Service to  
submit a list of five (5) arbitrators. if the are unable to agrea  
upon one of these five {§) arbilraiors, the party requesting  
arbitration shall first strike two (2) names, and the other party shall  
next strike two (2) names, and the remaining person shail be the  
arbitrator.  
The pasties shall submit the or to be  
in a written stipulation to the arbitrator. The arbitrator  
may consider and decide only the grievance or  
grievances presented to him in a written stipulation of the Company  
and the Union, and his decision shall be based solely upon his  
interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.  
44  
   
### ARTICLE ¥ - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS ANO GRIEVANCES  
The arbitrator shalt not have the sight to amend, take away, madily,  
add to, or change any of the provisions of this Agreement,  
The arbitrator shail atso have jurisdiction and authority only to  
injerpreal, apply, or determine compliance with respect (to the  
Insurance Agreement between the parties, including the Program  
of Insurance Benefits (PIB), in order to dispose of grievances  
properly arising under Article XX of this Agreement. The arbiirator  
shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, detract frarn, or  
alter in any way the provisions of the Insurance Agreement  
{including PIB).  
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the  
Company, the Union, and the employes or employees invoived.  
The expense and fee of the arbitrator shall ba divided equally  
batween the Company and the Union.  
Settlement of grievances may or may not be retroactive as the  
equities of particular cases may demand, bui the following  
limitations shall be observed by arbitrators where the arbitrator's  
award i5 retroactive. in any case where the arbitrator delerminas  
thal the award should be retroactive, the retroactive date shall be  
as tallows:  
{A} if the arbitrator shail decide that a discharge, disciplinary  
suspensian, demotion, or layolf is in violation o! this  
Agreement, the arbitrator shall order tha employee  
reinstaied to the job which he is entitied to under the  
Agreement and reimburse him for any compensation which  
he has lost by reason of such discharge, suspension,  
demotion, or fayoff.  
(B) lf the arbitrator shall decide that the failure to  
permanently promote an employee is in violation of this  
Agreement, the arbitrator shall order him promoted to the  
job to which he is entitled under this Agreement, and  
reimburse him to the date the written complaint was filed in  
Step 2 plus (3) days for any compensation which he  
45  
   
### ARTICLE ¥ - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
has lost by reason of not being so promoted.  
(C) =‘ it a grievance is fied over a rale of pay and the arbitrator  
shait decide that the employee has nol been pald the rate  
of pay which ha is antitied to under this Agreement, then  
the arbitrator shall order him reimbursed to ihe date the  
rate in dispule was established, except that retroactivity for  
naw disputed job classifications shall be determined under  
tha provisions of Anicls  
(D} Matters other than those referred to in Subparagraphs (A),  
(B), and (C) above; a date not eartier than the date on  
which the gnevance was first presented in written form at  
the grievance procedure except that retroactivily for new  
disputed job classifications shall ba determined under the  
provisions of Article  
### 11 Suspension and Discharge Cases.  
The puspase of this Section is to provide for the disposition of  
complaints and grievarices involving suspensions of dischargas and  
to establish a special procedure for ihe prompt review of all cases  
involving discharge or suspension of more than jour (4} calendar  
days. Complaints conceming suspensions of four (4) calendar days  
or less shall be handled In accordance with the procedures set farth  
In Sections 4 and 10 of this Article. Grievances concaming  
suspensions of five (5} calendar days or more and discharges shail  
be handied in accordance with the procedures set below,  
Including the procedures set forlh in Sections 4 and 10 of this  
Article.  
(A} Procedure.  
An employee shall not be preemptorily discharged. !n all cases in  
which the Company may conclude that an employee's conduct may  
Suspension or discharge, ha shall be suspended initially for  
nol more than five ($} calendar days and given written notice of  
46  
   
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
such action. Written notice of such action shall also be lumished  
to tha amployse's Grievances Committeeman and the Chairman of  
the Grievance Committee as soon as practicable and in the event  
of a discharge the Chairman of the Grievance Committee shal) be  
provided with a sialement outtining the discharged employee's prior  
disciplinary record coincident with the writien notice of discharge.  
if such initial suspension is for not more than four (4) calendar days  
and the employee affected believes he has been unjusily dealt with,  
he may initiate a complaint and have it processed in accordance  
with this Article V, Adjusiment of Complainis and Gnevances.  
if such initial suspension is for five (5) calendar days and it the  
employee affected believes ha has been unjustly dealt with, he may  
request and shall be granted, during this period, a hearing and a  
statement of the oflanse belore a representaiive (siatus of Division  
Manager or Assistant Division Manager} designated by the  
Manager of Human Resources with of withoul his Assistant  
Grievance Committeeman or Grievance Commitiseman present, as  
the employee may choose. After such hearing, or if no such  
hearing is requested, the Company may conclude whether the  
suspension shalt be modifier, extended, revoked, or  
converied into a discharge. In the event the suspension Is affirmed,  
modified, exianded, of converted into a discharge, the employee  
may, within five (5) calandar days alter notice of such action, file a  
grievance in Step 3 of the complaint and gnevance procedure.  
Final decision shall be made by ihe Company in this Step within  
live (S) calendar days from the date the grievance was originally  
filed therein. Such grievance shall thereafter be processed in  
accordance with the complaint and procedure.  
An Initial suspension for not more than four (4) calendar days to be  
extended or converted into a discharge must be so extended or  
converted within the four (4) day period, in which case the  
procedure outlined in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be  
followed and the five (5) calendar day periad for tequesting a  
hearing shall begin when the employee receives notice of such  
extension of discharge.  
47  
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
An record will not be considered in taking disciptinary  
action and will not be cited in Step 3 of the complaint and grievance  
procedure if the record contains no disciplinary warming  
of disciplinary suspension for the three (3} yeal period prior to the  
disciplinary action being taken. The purpose of this pravision is to  
provida employees an opportunity to erasé pasi records of  
employment as they appty to discipline by maintaining a three (3)  
year record tree of discipline.  
{6} Revocation of Suspension or Discharges.  
Should any initial suspension, or modification, or  
extension thereof, or discharge be revoked by the Company, the  
Company shall reinstate and compensate the amployee affected on  
the basis of an equitable lump sum payment muiually agreed to by  
the parties or, in the absence of agreement, make him whote in the  
manner set forth in Paragraph {C) below.  
(C) Jurisdiction of the Arbitrator.  
   
Shoutd it be determined by the arbitrator that an employee has  
been suspended or discharged without proper cause theretor, the  
Company shall reinsiate he employee and make him whole for ihe  
period of his suspension or discharge, which shall include providing  
him such @amings and other benafils as he would have received  
except for such suspension or discharge, and such  
earnings or other amounts as he would not have feceived except  
for such suspension or discharge.  
Should it be determinad by the arbitratar that an ampleyee has  
been suspended or discharged for proper cause iherefor, the  
arbitrator shall not have Jurisdictlon to modify ihe degree of  
discipline imposed by the Company; provided, however, that in a  
discharge case, the arbitrator shall have if he finds that  
the Company has proper cause for discipline, but does not have  
proper cause for discharge, to modily the penalty: provided, further,  
that in case the arbitrator modified the discipline, the arbitrator shall  
have discretion lo reduce or noi require the Company to pay the  
48  
   
### ARTICLE V - ADJ. OF COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES  
compensation provided in Section 10, Subparagraph (A) above, it,  
in his judgment, the facts warrant such an award.  
The provisions of Saction 11(C) apply to all suspensions regardless  
of the number of days involved.  
In suspension and discharge cases only, the arbitrator may, where  
circumsiances warrant, modily or eliminate the offse! of such  
earnings or olher amounts as would not have bean received axcept  
for such suspension or discharge.  
(2) Suspension of Hearing.  
When a strike, 4 work stoppage, or or impeding of work  
is in progress in the plant or any subdivision thereaf, ha Company  
shalt not be required to hold any hearings or nolity employess  
under this Section the employees are pariicipaling in such  
violation of this Agreement or if it is impracticable for the Company  
10 do s0 because of such violation. In such cases, the time limiis  
far hoiding hearings or émployees shall start to fun upon  
ihe fermination of the strike, work stoppage, or interruption of  
impeding of work.  
49  
### ARTICLE Vi - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS  
### ARTICLE VI  
### NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS  
The Union shall not instigate, promote, cause, or authorize its members  
to instigate, pramote, or cause any strike, shutdown, slowdown, or any  
other stoppage of work or interference of any kind with production.  
Participation in a strike, shuidawn, slowdown, or any oiher stoppage of  
work or inierferance of any Kind with production brought about either by  
the action of the Union or individuals or groups of employees coverad by  
this Agreement, with of withoul Union authority of support, shall ba  
grounds for disciplinary actlon of one or more of the participants by the  
Company.  
There shall be no lockout by the Company during the term of this  
Agreement,  
   
### ARTICLE Vil - HOURS OF WORK  
### ARTICLE Vit  
Section 1  
### HOURS OF WORK  
   
Scope.  
This defines the normat hours of work and shall not be  
constnied as a guaraniee of hours ol work per day or per week.  
This Anicle shall nat be considered as any basis for the calculation  
or payment ol overtime, which is covered solely by Article Vill,  
### Overtime-Pramium-Holidays.  
Section 2 Normal Work Oay,.  
The normal work day shal be eight (8) hours of work in a  
twenty-four (24) hour period, The hours of work shall be  
consecutive except when an unpaid lunch period is now provided.  
Section 3  
(A)  
Normal Work Patiern and Schedules for New Mill  
Employees.  
New Mill empkyees are those employses regularly  
assigned to work in the New Mill. Any employee from  
outside the New Mill who is temporarily scheduled for  
assignment to work in the New Mill or lo work directly  
associated with the New Mill and perfonned in the New Mill  
area as a result of situations such as absenteeism,  
fluctualing manpower feaves of absence or  
vacations shall not be considered as New Mill amployses.  
The normal work pattern for the production and  
maintenance employees working in the New Mill shall be  
five (5) consecutive work days beginning on the first day of  
any seven (7) consecutive day period. The seven {7}  
day pétiod is a period of ane hundred  
sixty-eigh! (168) consecutive hours and may begin on any  
day of the calendar week and extend into the next calendar  
51  
   
### ARTICLE Vil - HOURS OF WORK  
  
(C)  
week, On shilt changes, the one hundred sixty-eight (168)  
consecutive hours may become one hundred fifty-two (152)  
consecutive hours, depending upon the change in the shift.  
A work pattern of less of more than five {5} work days in  
tha seven (7) consecutive day period shail not be  
considered as deviating from ihe normal work pattern,  
provided the work days are cansecutive.  
New Mill shall be schaduled on the of a  
normal work pattem as set forth in (A) above, except  
where:  
{1} Such schedules regulary would raquire the  
payment of overtime;  
{2) Deviations from the normal work pattern are  
necessary because of breakdowns or oiher matters  
bayond the control of ihe Company; or  
(3) Schedules deviating from the normal work pattern  
ara established by agreameni between the  
Company and the Grievance  
Schedules may be changed by Management at any time  
except where by local agreement schedules ara not to be  
changed in the absence of mutual agreement; provided,  
however, that any changes made affer Thursday of the  
week preceding the calendar week in which the changes  
are to be effective shall 6@ explained at the earliest  
practicable time to (he Grievance or Assistant Grievance  
Cammiiteeman of the amployees affected; and pravided  
further hal with respect to any such schedules, no changes  
shall be made alter such Thursday except for braakdowns  
or other matiers beyond the control of the Company,  
Should changes fe made in schadules contrary to this  
Paragraph (C) so that an employee is laid off and does not  
work on a day that he was scheduled to work, he shall be  
deemed to have reporied for work on such day and shail  
52  
### ARTICLE Vil - HOURS OF WORK  
be eligible for reporting allowance in accordance with  
provisions of Section 6 of this Ariicie, excluding Paragraph  
(B}{4) of Section 6.  
(0) Should changes be made in schedules contrary to the  
provisions of Paragraph {C) above so that an employas is  
laid off on any day within the five (5} scheduled days, and  
he is required to work on what would otherwise have been  
the sixth or seventh work day in the schedule on which he  
was scheduled to commence work, the employee shali be  
paid for such sixth or seventh work day at overiime rates  
in accordance with Article Vill, Qverlime-Pramium-Holdays.  
### Section 4 Normal Work Pattern for Old Mill Empioyees.  
Olt Mill employees are all employees other than New Mill  
empioyess as dalined in Section 3A) above. The normal work  
pattern for all Old Mil! employess shall consist of five (5}  
conseculive work days, Monday through Friday. A work pattern of  
more or less than five (5) work days in this normal work  
shall not be considered as devialing from the normal work pattem,  
provided the work days are consecutive,  
Section § Posting Schedules.  
Schedules showing empkyees’ work days shall be posted or  
olhanise made known to employees in all divisions (except in the  
Steet Producing Division of the New Mil)} not later than Thursday of  
ihe week preceding the calendar week in which the schedule  
becomes effective unless otherwise provided by local agreement in  
the division or department. Weekly work schedules shall be pasted  
or otherwise made known to employees in the Steel Producing -  
Division of the New Mil) (including resident maintenance) on  
Wednesday of the preceding week.  
   
### ARTICLE Vii - HOURS OF WORK  
### Sectlon6 Reporting Allowance,  
(A)  
(B)  
An who is scheduled or notified to report and who  
does report for work shall be provided with and assigned to  
a minimum of four (4) houre of work on the job for which he  
was scheduled or notified to report or, in the event such  
work Is not available, shall be assigned or reassigned to  
another job of at leasi equal job class for which he is  
qualified. in the event when he reports for work no work is  
avallable, he shall be released from duty and credited with a  
reporting allowance of four (4) times ihe standard hourty  
wage fate of the job (induding any applicable additive In  
Appendix A-1} for which he was scheduled or notified to  
When an employee who starts to work ls released  
from duty before he works a minimum of four {4) hours, he  
shall be paid for the hours worked In accordance with  
Article XIV, Wages, and crediled with a reporting allowance  
to the standard hourty wage rate of the job (induding  
any applicable additive in Appendix A-1) for which he was  
scheduled or notified to report multiplied by the unutiized  
portion of the four (4) hour minimum. Any additions  
provided In Article XIV , Sectlon 13, Articte Vill, Section 4  
and Subsectlon $(A)(3) shall apply.  
The provisions of this Section 6 shall not apply in the event  
that:  
(1) Sidkes, work stoppages In cannection with labor  
disputes, failure of utilities beyand the control of the  
Company, or acts of God Interfere with work being  
provided; or  
(2) An employee is not put to work or is released from  
duty after having been put to work either at his own  
request or due te his own fault; or  
(3) An employee refused lo accept an assignment or  
reassignment during the first four (4) hours as provided  
54  
### ARTICLE Vil - HOURS OF WORK  
in the first of Paragraph (A) above; or  
(4} The Company has atlempted to notify the.  
employee of a change in his scheduled reporting  
ime or that he need nol report al a place which he  
has designated for that purpose at least three (3)  
hours before his scheduled starting time; or  
(5) An employes is assigned or re-assigned (or is  
offered assignment or re-assignment) in  
accordance with the provisions of (B)(5) of the  
"Employment Security Plan.*  
Section 7 Allowance for Jury or Witness Service.  
An employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed as a  
witness shall be excused from work for the days on which he  
serves. Service, as used herein, includes required raporting tor jury  
or witness duty when summoned, whather or not be is used. Such  
employee shall receive, for each such day of service on which he  
otherwise would have worked, the difference betwsen the payment  
he receives for such service in excess of $5 and the amount  
calculated by the Company in accordance with the lollowing  
formula. Such pay shall be based on the number of days such  
employee would have worked had he not been performing such  
service (ptus any holiday in such pesiod which he would nol have  
worked) and the pay for each such day shall be eight (8) times his  
average straight time hourly rate of earnings {including applicable  
incentive eamings but shift differentials and Sunday and  
overtime pramiums) during the lasi payroll period worked prior to  
such service. The employes will present proof (hat he did serve or  
report as a juror or was subpoenaed and reported as a witness,  
and the amount of pay, if any, received therefor.  
Section 6 Allowance for Milltary Encampment.  
An employee with one or more years of continuous service who is  
55  
   
### ARTICLE Vil- HOURS OF WORK  
required to attend a summer encampment of the Reserve of the  
Armed Fortes of the National Guard shall be paid, far a pariod not  
to exceed two weeks in any calendar year, the difference between  
the amount paid by the Govemment (not including travel, sub-  
sistence, and quarters allowance) and the amount caiculated by the  
Company in accordance with the follawing formuta. Such pay shail  
be based on the number of days such employee would have  
worked had he not bean altending such encampment during such  
two weeks (plus any holiday in such twa weeks which he would not  
hava worked) and tha pay for each such day shall be eight (8)  
times his average straight time hourly rate of sarnings (including  
applicable incentive eamings but excluding shift diiferentials and  
Sunday and avertime premiums) dusing the last payroll period  
worked prior to the If the period of such encampment  
exceads two weeks in any calendar year, the period on which such  
pay shall be based shall be ihe first two weeks he would have  
worked during such pariod.  
Section 9 Industrial Accident Allowance  
An employee who suffers a compensable injury while at work and  
wha is unable ta perlorm the job he was assigned to because of that  
injury will be pak average hoausty eamings for the balance of his  
ragular scheduled turn. An employes covered by this Section who  
is sant fram the plant or to ihe medical depariment and ratums to  
ine plant or is released from the medical cepartmant shail be paid  
average hourly earnings uniit his retum to the plan! or his release  
irom the medical department, provided he retume or is released  
within the workday after his scheduled shift is compteted.  
for Funeral Leave  
When death occurs Io an employee's tegal spouse, mother, father,  
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son, daughter, brother, sister,  
grandparents or grandchildren {including stepfather, stepmother,  
stepchildren, stepbrother or stepsister, when they have lived with  
the employee in an immadiate family relationship), an employee,  
upon request, wil be excused and paid for up to a maximum of  
56  
### ARTICLE Vii - HOURS OF WORK  
     
three (3) schedutad shitts (five (5} scheduled shifts in the case of  
the death of an employee's legal spouse, son, or daughter,  
Including siepchikiren when thay have lived with tha employes in  
an immediate family retationship) (or for such fewer shifts as the  
employee may be absent) which fall within a three (3}  
consecullve calendar day period (ar five (5} consecutive  
calendar day period in the case of Ihe death of an employee's  
legal spouse, son, of daughter, Including stapchildran when they  
have lived with the employes in an immediate family  
rejationship); provided, however, that one such calendar day  
shall be the day of ihe funeral and iis established that the  
empleyae attended the funeral. Payment shall be eight (8)  
times his average straight time hourly earings (as computed tor  
Jury pay). An employee will nol receive tuneral pay when it  
duplicaies pay received for time not worked for any other  
reason. Time thus paid will noibe counted as hours worked  
tor purposes of determining overtime or premiym pay liability,  
Section 11 senteaism.  
(1} Whenever an amployae has just cause for reparting late or  
absenting himself from work, he shall, whenever  
practicatte, give notice as fay in advance as possible to his  
supervisor or other person designated to receive such  
nolica.  
(2) Should an employee not have just cause for failing io give  
notice, he shall be subjact to discipline of  
whether or not the employee is otherwise subject to  
discipline for reporting late for or absenting himsell trom  
work without just cause.  
{3) When an employee has completed twelve (12) consecutive  
months of work without discipline for failure to comply with  
the requirements in (1} and (2) above, prior disciptinary  
penaities for such offenses not exceeding four days  
suspension shail not be used tor iurther disciplinary action,  
57  
### ARTICLE Vil - OVERTIME - PREMIUM - HOLIDAYS  
### ARTICLE Vill  
### OVERTIME - PREMIUM - HOLIDAYS  
Section 1 Purpose.  
This Articte shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of  
wark per day or per week or a9 a guarantee of days of work par  
week, Overtime premium shail nat be paid under more than one  
Section of this Article or for more than one reason under the  
same Section of this Article for the same hours worked.  
### Section 2 Detinition of Terms.  
{A} The payroll week lor New Mill employees shall consist of  
seven (7) conseculive days beginning al 12:01 A.M,  
Sunday of the tum changing hour nearest thareio. The  
payroll week for Old Mill employees shall consist seven  
(7) conseculive days beginning at the time of the  
day shift on Monday,  
(8) The work day, for the purposes of this Article, is the  
twenty-lour (24) hour period beginning with the  
scheduled starting lime, excep! that a tardy  
employee's work day shal} begin at the time i] would have  
begun if he had not been tardy,  
(C) The regular rate of pay, as the term Is used in this Article,  
shall mean the average straight time houry  
rate of eamings for the period for which his compensation  
is being determined, computed by dividing the total of his  
straight ume eamings during such period by the total  
number of hours worked by him during such period.  
   
### ARTICLE Vill - OVERTIME - PREMIUM - HOLIDAYS  
Section 3  
Overtime for New Mill Employees. Conditions Under  
Which Overtime Rates Shal) Be Paid.  
Overtime at the rate of one and one-half times the regular rate of  
pay shall be paid for;  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
{4}  
(5)  
Hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day;  
Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a payrod  
week,  
Hours worked on the sixth or seventh work day in a  
payroll week during which work was performed on five (5)  
other work days;  
Hours worked on the sixth or seventh work day of a  
seven (7) consecutive day period during which the first  
tive (5) days were worked, whether or no! all of such days  
fail within the same payroll week, except when worked  
pursuant to schedules mutually agreed to as provided for  
in Article Vil, Subsection 3(B}(3); provided, however, thal  
no overtime will be due under such circumstances unless  
the employes notifies his supervisor of a claim for  
overtime within a period of one {1) week afler such sixth  
or seventh day is worked: or, if he falls to do so, initiates  
a complaint in Step 1 claiming such overtime within thirty  
(30) days after such day is worked: and provided further  
that on shift changes the seven (7} consecutive day  
period of one hundred sixty-gight (168) consecutive hours  
may become one hundred fifty-two (152) consecutive  
hours, depending upon the change in the shift;  
Hours worked under the canditions  
Subsaction 3(D) of Anicle Vil, €  
55  
### ARTICLE Vill- OVERTIME - PREMIUM - HOLIDAYS  
### Sunday Premium for New Mill Employees.  
Ail hours worked by a New Milt employee on Sunday which are  
no paid jor on an overtime basis shalt be paid premium on the  
basis of ana and one-half times the employee's regular rate of  
pay. For the purpose of this paragraph, Sunday shall ba deemad  
to be the twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the turn  
changing hour nearest to 12:01 A.M. Sunday.  
Overtime Premium for Old Mill Employees.  
An employes shall be paid overtime a) the rale of time  
and one-half for all hours worked by him in any work  
week lalling oulside his regular of normal working hours  
as fotlows:  
Section 4  
Section 5  
(A}  
fio  
  
{1}  
{2}  
(3)  
Far ail time worked by him in excess of eight (8)  
hours in his work day;  
For ali time worked by him in excess of forty (40}  
hours jn any ane work week, except for the work  
weeks which include one of the holidays named  
below and in these weeks said forty (40) hours  
shall be reduced to thirty-two (32) hours for an -  
employee who does not work on the holiday  
except where that holiday falts on Saturday;  
tn the event for any reason Subparagraph {2)  
above is not applicable, premium shall be paid ai  
ihe rate of time and for all time worked  
by him on Sundays,  
~ For the purposes of this Section, named calendar days  
4 shal:be deemed to be the twenty-four (24) hour period  
af! commencing with the starting time of the first shit (day  
shat) arene particular days.  
&  
60  
   
### ARTICLE Vill - OVERTIME - PREMIUM - HOLIDAYS  
### Section 6 Holiday Premium for New Mill and Old Mill  
Employees.  
For all hours worked by an employes on any of the holidays  
Specilied below, premium shall be paid at the rate of two and  
one-half times his regular rate of pay. The holidays specified are  
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, which shalt be the  
last Monday in May, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving  
Day, the day alter Thanksgiving Day, the day before Christmas  
Day, Chrisimas Day, and New Year's Eve Day.  
The holiday for Naw Mill shall be the twenty-four (24)  
hour period beginning al the turn changing hour nearest to 12:01  
A.M. of the boliday, and for Old Mill employees shall be the  
twanty-four (24) hour period beginning with the starting time of the  
first shift (day shift} on the {f the calendar holiday is on  
Sunday, for the purposes of this Agreement, the holiday shall be  
the following Monday.  
Section 7 Non-Duplication.  
(A) Payment of overtime ratas shall not be duplicated for the  
same hours worked but the higher of the applicable rates  
shall be used. Hours compensaied for at overtime rates  
shalt not be counted further for any purposes in  
determining overtime liability under the same or any other  
provisions; provided, however, that a holiday, whether  
worked or not, shall be counted for purposes of  
computing overtime liability under the provision ol  
Subsection 3(3}, (4), or (5) above and hours worked on  
a holiday shall be counted for purposes of computing  
overtime liabitity under (he provisions of Subsection 3(1}  
above and Subseclion 5(A)(1) above,  
(B) Except as above provided, hours paid for but noi worked  
shall not be counted in determining ovenime liabitity.  
61  
   
### ARTICLE Vill - OVERTIME - PREMIUM - HOLICDAYS  
Section 8  
Overtime Distribution.  
   
Overtime opportunilias in gach job shail be divided as equally as  
among ihe employees assigned ta ihat job.  
Section @  
(A)  
(8)  
Pay for Holidays Noi Worked.  
Each eligibte employee shall recalve as payment for each  
one of the hatidays (named in Section 6 of this Article)  
Ol worked &N amount equal to sight (8) hours of pay al  
his ragular standard hourly wage rate {in ine case ot  
incentive workers, the averaga straight time  
hourly samings @xclusive of and overtime  
for the payroll périod immediately preceding the one in  
which ihe holiday is abserved shall be used); provided,  
however, thal il an eligible amptoyee who Is scheduled to  
work on any such holiday fails to report or perform his  
scheduled or assigned work, he shall become ineligible to  
pay for Ihe unworked holiday unless he has failed to  
raport ar perform such work because of sickness or  
because of death in the immediate family (mother, father,  
including indaws, children, brother, sister, husband, wife,  
and grandparents) or because of similar good cause.  
When no work was performed in the payroll period  
preceding the holiday pay period, the holiday pay period  
shall be used.  
AS used in this Subsection, an eligible emptoyee is one  
who:  
(1} has completed thirty (30} turns of work since his  
lasi hire;  
(2} pertorms work or i$ on vacation in ihe payroll  
period in which the holiday occurs: or, i ha is Iaid  
olf for such payroll period, performs work or ig on  
vacalion in beth the two (2) payroll periods  
preceding and the two (2) payroll periods  
62  
   
em mmm cg es we ww iii = iis ws oe eww ee ee EE.  
### ARTICLE Vill - OVERTIME - PREMIUM - HOLIDAYS  
follawing ihe payroll period in which the holiday  
occurs; and  
   
{3) works as scheduled or assigned both on his fast  
scheduled work day prior to and on his first  
scheduled work day following the holiday unless  
he has failed to so work because of sickness oF  
because of death in the immediate family or  
because of similar good cause.  
(C) Wher 4 holiday occurs during an eligible employee's  
scheduled vacation, ne shal be paid for the unworked  
holiday in addition to his vacation pay without regard to  
ine provisions of Subsection 9(B)(3}.  
lf an eligible employee parforms work on a holiday but  
works Jess than eight (6) hours, he shal) be entitled 10 the  
benefits of this Section to the extent that the number of  
hours worked by him on iha holiday is lass than eight (8).  
This Séction applies in addition to the provision of Saction  
& of Article Vii where applicable.  
### Section 10 Overti Un  
For the purpose of computing weekly overtime under Subsection  
3{2) of this Article, time spent by official of the  
Union, a8 defined in this Agreement (including represeniatives of  
the Plant Union Committee, the Contracting Out and  
the Safaty Committee) in connection with the processing of  
glievances or discussing matters coming within the terns of this  
Agreement, shall be counted as "hours worked" only when afl of  
the following conditions are met:  
{a} The thne spent is during the reguiarty scheduled working  
time ot the official Union represeniative in question, For  
the purpose of applying this provision only, lime fost by  
such Union representabve on the shifl involved and the  
shift immadiately preceding or immediately following col-  
63  
  
   
### ARTICLE Vill - OVERTIME - PREMIUM - HOLIDAYS  
lective bargaining meetings or Third or Fourth Step  
grievance meetings shall be considered as his regulary  
scheduled working time,  
(b} = The time spent is in conterence between an official Union  
representative or rapreseniatives and the representalives  
of ihe Company designated in this Agreement.  
ic) The time of starting and ending of such conferences is  
racorded by a representative of the Campany who  
participates in such conferences.  
The counting of time spent by Union officials in conierencas with  
ihe Company, a3 provided herein, as "hours worked" for overtime  
purposes under the Fair Labor Standards Act, as above provided,  
shall nod eniiite such unworked time fo be ireatad as time worked  
for any other purpose.  
   
### ARTICLE IX - SAFETY AND HEALTH  
### ARTICLE IX  
### SAFETY AND HEALTH  
Sectlon 1 Satleiy Devices, Wearin rej, and Equipment.  
The Company shali continue fo make reasonable provisions for  
the safety and health of its employees at ihe plant during the  
hours of their employment in accordance with the requirements of  
the law of illinois and applicable Federal Safety Standards.  
Protective devices, wearing apparel, and other equiprnent  
necessary to property protect employees from injury shall be  
provided by tha Company, without cost to the employee, in  
accordance with tha practice now prevailing in the plant of as  
such practice may be improved from tima to time by the  
Company, The Company may make a fair charge to caver loss  
or willful destruction by the employee. Protective davices and  
apparel now furnisfed are:  
Goggles, including special goggles  
Hard hats  
Heat masks  
Special purpose gloves  
Firenraof. waterproof, or acid proof protective  
clothing  
Helmets  
Face shisids  
Leggings  
Ear plugs  
Arm guards  
Finger guards  
Respirators  
Prescription lenses and frames, but not the cost of  
obtaining the prescriptions.  
Section 2 Satety Committee.  
A Safely Committee consisting of five (5) employees designated  
65 :  
   
### ARTICLE IX - SAFETY AND HEALTH  
by ihe Union and three (3) representatives of the Company  
designaied by Ihe Company shall be recognized for the following  
purposes:  
(a)  
(b)  
(c}  
(d}  
Reviewing reports of fost time accidents and serous  
injury accidents which could have resutied in Jost time.  
Any member of the Salety Commitige may inspaci a  
patiosas fost time report and the Union Salety  
Commitiae shall be fumished a repont by the Company in  
connection with lost time injuries.  
Reviewing the recornmendations of ihe Stale Factory  
Inspector.  
Recommending safety and health measures to the  
Human Department for the Company's  
consideration and for such action as hat department may  
consider consistent with the Company’s responsibility to  
provide lor the safety and health of the employees during  
the hours of their employment es provided in this Section.  
When the Company introduces new personal protective  
apparel, or extends the use of protective apparel 1o new  
areas, or issues naw rules selating to the use of protective  
apparsal, the matter will be discussed with the members of  
the Safaty Committee in advance with the objective of  
increasing cooperation.  
Te make recommendations to the Human Resources  
Department as to how employees may be advised io  
comply with all safety rules and regulations.  
The Union members af the Safety Committee shall be granted  
such time off without pay a3 is required io carry out these  
functions of the Safety Commitee.  
The Union Co-Chairman or his designated of the  
Safety Committee shall be granted access to the plant at alt  
reasonable times for iha purpose of conducting the lunctions of  
66  
   
### ARTICLE IX - SAFETY AND HEALTH  
the Safety Commitiee after proper nolification to ihe Manager of  
Human Resources or his designated representative,  
Section 2 Safety Naz  
When an employee or group of employees beliave that he or they  
ase being required fo work under conditions which are unsafe or  
unhealthy beyond the normal hazard inherent in the operation in  
question, and which creates a serious immediate threat of injury  
10 his or thelr person, he or they shall immediately notify his or  
their supervisor of such danger so that any condition which does  
in Jacl constitute such a threal may promptly be eliminated. The  
empkyee may request permission to contact his Grievance  
Committaeman or a member of thea Safety Committee. Such  
request shall be granted, unless to de so would seriously impair  
ihe operation, in which case, }} will be granted as soon as ihe  
impairment no longer exists. Al the request of the Grievance  
Committseman, the Division Manages or his designated  
representative will be called in to this digcussion. Following this  
investigation, if an and the Commitleaman are  
convinced an employee is in grave danger by continuing to work  
on the job, the employes may ask to be relieved uniil the danger  
is Should the Division Manager or his designaied  
representative not grant this request, the employee may  
immediately fie a grievance in the Third Step of the griavance  
Whare the Company representative agrees that the  
employee shall be relieved from work until the danger is removed,  
he shall be transterred to another job (without any loss in  
earnings) unt said danger is removed. Shautd it be determined  
by an arbitrator that an unsafe condition within the meaning of this  
Seciian existed and should the employee not have been assigned  
to other available equal or highel-raied work, he shall be paid for  
the eamings he oiherwise would have received.  
67  
   
ae a te eee ewe  
a 2 oe — me Qe eee ee ee ee — +  
a ES  
### ARTICLE X - BULLETIN BOARDS  
### ARTICLE X  
### BULLETIN BOAROS  
Section 3 Positng of Notices.  
The Company shall provide not mofe than thimy (30) bulletin  
boards to be used for pasting notices of Union meetings, Union  
elections, Union appointmenis, result of Union slections, and  
Union social activities, All Union notices musi be submitted to the  
Campany for its approval, and, il approved, will be posted by the  
company within 43 hours after receipl.  
Section 2 Other Matters.  
No other place on the Company property shall be used by the  
Union for the posting of nolices, advertisements, or information of  
any kind, and there shall be no distribulian of pamphiets or  
publications upon Company property, except Union  
which are approved by the Company.  
68  
   
### ARTICLE Xt - LEAVES OF ABSENCE  
### ARTICLE XI  
### LEAVES OF ABSENCE  
Section 1 General.  
Employees, on written applicalion setting forth good cause, may  
be granted leaves of absence by the Company wilhout pay.  
Length of continuous service shall mot be broken during such  
leaves of absence consisten! with Article XVI, Seniority.  
Examples good cause lor which leaves of absence may be  
granted are:  
fa) Leave in accordance with the “Family and Medical Leave  
Act of 1993";  
(b} Military encampments;  
(c) Absence required by law or jury duty.  
The Union will be given a copy ot ali leaves of absence.  
Section 2 Positions with intemationat or Local Union,  
Leaves of absence for the purpose of accepting positions with the  
International of this Union, or transacting Local Union  
business pertaining to conventions of conferences shall be  
available io a reasonable number of amployees. Adequate  
notices of intent to apply for Jeave shall ba aflorded Management  
to enable praper provision to be made to Jill the job to be vacated.  
teaves of absence in the above shall be for a petiod not in  
excess of one year and may be renewed for a further period not  
to axceed one year.  
Continuous service shall no. be broken by (he leave of absence  
but will continue io  
69  
eT  
-  
zs:  
The Company will continue to follow the Selective Training and Service  
Act of 1948, as amendad, and as that Jaw is interpreted by the Supreme  
### ARTICLE XN - MILITARY SERVICE  
Sm mee  
### ARTICLE Xl  
### MILITARY SERVICE  
    
Court of the United States. Whether or not required by that law, the  
Company and the Union agree as lollows:  
1)  
2)  
3)  
Any employee entitted to reinstatement under thie Article  
who has incurred compensable disability during his  
military service which prevents him from performing his  
former job shalt be assigned to a job opening which he is  
able to perform saiisfactorily consistent with all of the  
provisions of this Agreement.  
Any employas entilled to reinslatement under this Article,  
who requests a leave of absence before commencing  
work, will be graniad a leave of absence by the Company  
without pay lor a period not to exceed sixty (60) days.  
Any employee entilled te reinstatement under this Ariicie,  
who requests a ieave of absence before ha commences  
work ior the sola pwpose of enrolling in an approved  
training school, will be granted such a ieave of absence by  
iha Company, without pay, under the following  
circumsiances:  
a) The employee must prasent bona fide evidence  
that he tg eniering a training school approved for  
this purpose by the Federal Government.  
b) Any such leave of absence granted shall nol  
exceed @ period of one (1} year. However, if the  
employee requesis an additional period of time  
not to exceed one {1} year for the purpose of  
completing hig studies in the approved training  
   
### ARTICLE Xi - SERVICE  
4}  
¢)  
school, such leaves will be granted provided he  
makes such request in writing within five (5) days  
before the expiration of his leave of absence, and  
presents bona fide evidence that he is continuing  
his studies in this approved training school.  
Veterans granted leaves ai absence as oullined  
in this part (3) must report back to work within  
thirty (30) days after completion of their course of  
study; their continuity of service and  
their employment rélationship shall be broken and  
tarminated,  
An employse fetuming from military service shall be  
considered as having worked in the year he returns for the  
purpose of vacation etigibility.  
71  
   
### ARTICLE Xiil - VACATIONS  
Section 1  
{A)  
### ARTICLE Xilil  
### VACATIONS  
   
Eligibitlty.  
To be eligible for a vacation in any calendar year during  
ihe term of this Agreement, he employee must:  
{1) Have one year or more of continuous  
(2) Not have been absent from work for six (6)  
consecutive months or more in the preceding  
calendar year, except that in case ol an  
employee who completas one year of continuous  
service in such calendar year, he shall not have  
been absent from work tor six (6) consecutive  
months or more during the twelve (12) months  
following the date of his original employment;  
provided that an with more than one  
year of continuous service who in any year shall  
be ineligible for a vecation by reason ol the  
provisions of this paragraph as a result of an  
absenca an account of layoif or illness shall  
receive one week's vacation with pay in such  
year if he shall no! have been absent fram work  
for six (6) conseculive months of more in the  
twelve (12) consecutive calendar monihs next  
preceding such vacation. Any period of absance  
of an employes while on vacation pursuant to this  
Articta or while absent due to a compensable  
disability in the year in which he incurred such  
disability shall be in determining the  
length of a period of absence from work for the  
purposes of this Subsection 1{A)(2},  
   
  
### ARTICLE Xill - VACATIONS  
(B)  
(C)  
Section 2  
(Aj  
Continuous service shall date from:  
{¥)  
(2)  
ihe date of first employment at the plant; or  
subsequent date oi employment following a break  
in continuous service, whichever of the above two  
dates is the later. Such continuous service shall  
be calcuialed in the same manner as the  
Calculation of continuous service sel forth in  
Section 6, Article XVI, Seniority, of this  
Agreement, except that there shall ba no  
accumulation of service in excess of two (2)  
years of any continvous of absence on  
account of layoff or physicaf disability {except in  
the case of compensable disability, as provided  
in Section 8, Paragraph (4) of Article XVI,  
Seniority; or in the case ot an absence eolely due  
to layoH, as provided in Section 8, Paragraph (3}  
af Article XVI, Seniority} in the calculation of  
service for vacation eligibility.  
An employee, even though otherwise eligible under this  
Saction 1, fortaits the right te receive vacation benefits  
under this Anicla if ha quits, retires, dies, or is discharged  
prior to January 1 of the vacation year.  
Length of Vacation and Vacation Pay,  
An eligible emplayee who has attained tha years of  
continuous service indicated in the applicable following  
table in any calendar year during the continuation of this  
Agreement shal! receive 6 vacalion corresponding io such  
yaars of continucus service as shown in the applicable  
tollowing table:  
73  
   
### ARTICLE - VACATIONS  
(B)  
Section 3  
(A)  
Years of Service Weeks of Vacation  
1 but less than 3 1  
3 but less than 10 2  
10 but less than 17 3  
17 but Jess than 25 4  
25 of more 5  
Subjeci to the provision of Subsection 3(B) below: a one  
week's vacation shall consist of seven (7) consecutive  
days; a two weeks’ vacatian of fourtaen (14) consecutive  
days; a three weeks’ vacation of twenty-one {21)  
conseculive days; and a four weeks' vacalion ol  
{28} consecutive days, however,  
Ihat in the évent the orderly operations of the planj  
require, the two weeks’ vacation may be scheduled in two  
periods of seven (7} conseculive days each; and the  
three weeks’ vacation may ba scheduled in two periods  
of seven (7} and fourteen (14) consecutive days, or, vath  
the consent of the employee, in three periods of seven  
(7) consecutive days each; and the lour weeks’ vacation  
may be scheduled in two periods af fourteen (14)  
consecutive days each or in two periads of seven (7) and  
iwenty-one (21) consecuiive days, or, with the consent of  
the employes, in three periods of seven {7}, seven (7),  
and fourteen (14) consecutive days; or in four periods of  
seven (7) Conseculive days.  
Scheduling of Regutar Vacations.  
Ninety days prior to the beginning of thé vacation  
scheduling period, each eligible empkyes shall be  
fequestad to specify the vacation period he desirses.  
Vacations will, so far as practicable, be granted ai limes  
most desired hy amployess {longer service employees  
being given preference as to choice) and no employes  
74  
### ARTICLE Xlll - VACATIONS  
- will be required to take vacation during any scheduled  
shutdown period which falls outside of the ragular  
vacation period; but the final right to allot vacation periods  
and 10 change such allotments is exclusively reserved to  
tha Company tn order to insure the orderly of  
the plant. Vacation, upon agreement between local plant  
management and the local Union grievance committes,  
shall be scheduled throughout ihe calendar year. In the  
absence of such mutual agreement, regular vacations,  
excep! as provided in Subsection 3(B) below shall be  
scheduled between April 1 and November 1 of each  
calendar year, or, with the consent of the employee, at  
such oiher time during the calandar year as may be  
agresable to the plant management and the employes.  
Regular vacation shalt be scheduled in a single period of  
consecutive weeks, provided, however, that in the event  
tha orderly operations of tha plant require, regular  
vacations of two or more weeks may be scheduled in two  
periods, neither of which may be less than one week.  
With the consent of ine employea, regular vacatlon may  
be scheduled In any number of periods, none of which  
may be less than one week,  
In case Managemen! desires to schedule vacations for  
employees eligible therefor during a shutdown period  
instead of In accordance with the previously established  
vacation schedules for that year, Management shall give  
employees seventy-five (75) days notice of such  
intent; in the absence of such notice, an affected  
employes shall have tha option to take his vacation  
during the shutdown period or to be laid off during the  
shutdown and to taka his vacation at the previously  
scheduled time.  
Any employes otherwise entitiad to vacation, pursuant to  
the vacation section of this Agreemant in the calendar  
year in which he retires under the tarms of any pension  
75  
   
### ARTICLE XIll - VACATIONS  
(B)  
{C)  
agreement between the parties which makes him eligible  
for a special inifiaf pension amount, tut who has not  
taken such vacation prior to the date of such retirement,  
shall not be required to take a vacation in that calendar  
year and shal) not be entitled to vacatian pay for that  
calendar year.  
One week of vacation, provided far under Subsection 2(A}  
above, for an employes having ten (10) but less than fit-  
ieen (15) years may be schaduled hy Management at any  
time during the calendar year, or, if Iho amployee agrees,  
he may be given vacation allowance in lieu of such  
vacation week. ‘If such a week of vacation i$ scheduled  
outside the period sat forth in the foregoing Paragraph  
(A), the employes, upon request and if operating  
conditions permit, shalt hava the right ta have one or  
more other weeks of regular vacation to which he Is  
entitled scheduled with such week. This patagraph Is  
iniended to remove the limitations of scheduling vacation  
io certain portions of the year which is applicable to other  
weeks of vacation and nol to alfect ihe application ot  
other rules conceming the schaduling of vacations set  
forth in this Section.  
Any employee absent from work because of fayofl,  
or eave of absence at the lime employees are  
fequired to specily ihe vacation periods they desire and  
who has not previously requested and been allotted a  
vacalion period lor the calendar year, may be notified by  
Management ihat a period is being alloited as his  
vacation period bul that he has the right within fourteen  
(14) days io request some other vacation period. 1! any  
such employes notifies Management in writing, within  
fourteen (14) days after such notice is seni, that he  
desires some other vacation period, he shall be entitled  
to have his vacalion scheduled in accordance with the  
toregoing Paragraph (A).  
76  
   
### ARTICLE Xill - VACATIONS  
(0}  
{E)  
Where an employee Wansters from ane seniority unit to  
another subsequent to January 1 in any given year, he  
shall take his vacation in accorlance with the schedule  
established in his old seniority unit axcepl as  
of his new seniority unit preclude it. He shall  
nol be entitled to have any regutar vacation schedute  
previousty established in his new seniority unit changed  
because of his entry into that tunil; should there be a  
conflict between the transferred employee and an  
employee in the unil, the employee in the unil shall retain  
his preference In competition with the transferred  
employed regardless of continuous sérvice.  
The calendar week containing New Gay may be  
taken ag & week of vacation tor either the year preceding  
New Years Day or the year in which New Years Day  
falls, excapt when New Year's Day falls on Sunday,  
provided such vacation week has been scheduled as  
vacation in accordance with this Section. Jf fhe Company,  
in it sole discretion, schedules a shutdown of any  
operation during the calandar week containing Christmas  
Day, any employee who is nol scheduled to work due fo  
the shuidown in such week ang who has completed his  
vacation entitlement for that year may ¢lect 10 reschedule  
a week of regular vacation for which the employee has  
qualified and will be entitled in the following calendar year  
into ine shuidewn week; provided, however, that vacation  
pay for such vacation week, calculated as though the  
week were scheduled and takan in the next fellowing  
year, will be paid on the regular payday Jor the pay period  
in which the shutdown vacation falls; and provided funher  
that no vacation pay for a vacation rescheduled  
hereunder will be paid Io an employee who quits, retires,  
dies, or is discharged prior to January | of the year from  
which the shutdown vacation was rescheduled, In the  
appiication of this Paragraph {E), when the basis for  
calculation ol an vacation pay for the  
following calendar year is not available, his vacation  
7  
   
### AATICLE Xili - VACATIONS  
Section 4  
(A)  
(B)  
payment hereunder shall be made on the basis for  
of his vacation pay in the current calendar  
year with appropriate to be made when the  
basis for the following calendar year becomes available.  
Vacation Pay.  
Each employee granted a vacation under this Articis XIll  
will be paid at his average hourly samings during his first  
iwelve (12) weeks of work In the calendar year in which  
the vacation is taken, and said twelve {12) weeks of work  
Shall he in pay periods; provided, haweaver, that in  
the eveni an employee, pursuant to Subparagraph (A}{2)  
of Section 1 of this Article XIII, leaves the employ of the  
Company on of alter January 1 of prior to April 1, the  
average hourly eamings of such employee shall be based  
on his averaga hourly earnings during the fast preceding  
completed twelve (12) weeks of employment! prior to his  
leaving the emptoy of the Company, The last twelve (12)  
weeks of shall also be used for an employee  
who is entitled to a vacation under this Article XtlI, but  
who did not work iwelve (12) weeks in the calendar year  
in which the vacation is taken due to sickness OF injury or  
was scheduled for a vacation during the first twelve (12)  
weeks of the calendar year. Hours of vacation pay for  
gach vacation week shall be not less than (a) forty (40)  
hours per week or (b) the scheduled work weak of the  
plant, whichever ts larger. For the purposes of this  
Secilon only, the scheduled work week of the plant shall  
be the average hours of work per week in the calendar  
year immediately preceding the year in which said eligible  
employees take iheir vacations.  
[f a week of is scheduled in accordance with  
Subsection 3(B} of this Article prior io April 1, contrary to  
the amployee's request, the pay for such vacation (and  
tor not any more than one additional week which the  
employes may elect to join with il) shaft be at the same  
78  
   
### ARTICLE Xi! - VACATIONS  
(C)  
$action 5  
(A)  
(B}  
- rate as the rate of vacation pay far the other weeks of his  
vacation, it any, taken alters April 1, calculated in  
accordance with this Section 4, but when such week (or  
weeks) of vacation is taken, he will be paid an advance  
ihereon equal to forty (40) times his standard hourly wage  
fate including the applicable additive in Append A-1  
when Appendix A-1  
The Company may, with the consent of the amployee,  
pay him vacation allowance, in lieu of time ofl tor  
vacation, for any weeks of regular vacation in excess of  
two weeks in any One calendar year; provided, that with  
respect fo any such employee the provisions of the  
foregoing Subsection 3(B) shall not be applicable to the  
femaining weeks ai his vacation.  
Vagation Allowance.  
The Union and the Company agree that their mutyal  
objective is to afford maximum opponunity to the  
employees fo obtain their vacations and to attain  
maxirnum production. All employees sligible for vacation  
shall be granied their vacation from work except as  
provided in Subsection 4(C).  
Any payment of vacation allowance shail not require the  
Company to reschedule the vacation of any other  
employee.  
79  
   
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### WAGES  
Secilon 1 Standard Hourty Wage Scale.  
The standard hourly wage scales of rates for the respective job  
classes shail be those set forth in Appendix A and A-1 ol this  
Agreement.  
Secilon 2 Application of Standard Hourly Wage Scale.  
(A} The standard wage scale rate for each job shall be  
as forth In Appendix A tor non-incentive jabs and in  
Appendix A-1 for incentive jobs. In addition:  
(1) A schedule of trade or crafl rates containing  
i a standard rale equal to the standard  
hourdy wage scale raise for the  
respective job class of the job;  
{ii} * an intermediate rate at a level two job  
classes below the standard rate; and  
{iii} @ starting rate at a level four job  
classes below the standard rate  
i$ established for sach of the following repalr and  
maintenance trade or craft jobs:  
Electrician-Wiraman (Corsiruction)  
Electrician {Shop}  
Instrument Repairman  
Machinist  
Maintenance Repairman  
Millwright  
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
### Mobile Equipment Mechanic  
Motor tnspectar  
Turner  
Tootmakear  
Welder  
   
(2) A schedule of appreniica rates lor the respective  
apprentice training periods of 7,040 hours of actual  
training experience with ihe Company in the trade  
or craft in each training period is established al the  
tevel of the standard houry wage scale rates for  
the respective job classes as follows:  
Training Periods  
lat 2nd 3rd 4th Sth 6th  
Apprenticeship JOG CLASSES  
Trade or Crait  
Electrician-Wireman  
(Constructian)  
Instrument Repairman  
Machinist  
Tool Maker  
Electrician (Shop)  
Millwright  
Mobile Equipment  
Mechanic  
Roll Tumer  
Weider  
Millweight-Welder  
Welder-Mechanic  
Pipelitter-Welder  
Maintenance Repainnan  
Maintenance Electrician  
81  
6  
Dm  
aH  
§  
oo am &  
® &  
10  
10  
19  
19  
10  
16  
10  
10  
16  
10  
10  
10  
10  
10  
12  
14  
14  
i4  
14  
14  
14  
14  
14  
44  
14  
14  
14  
t4  
14  
15  
15  
1§  
1  
15  
16  
6  
16  
"4  
   
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
--  
a en  
(4)  
ee oe  
of acival leaming axperience with the Company on  
jobs for which training opportunity is not provided  
by the promotional sequence of related jobs or by  
apprentice training periods is established al ihe  
level of the standard hourly wage scale rates for  
the respective job classes determined on the basis  
of the required employment training and  
experience time specified in Factor 2 of the job  
Classification record of the fespectiva job for which  
the learner period is preparatory as foltows:  
fa) Seven (7) to twelve (12} monihs:  
One leamer period classification at a level  
two joo classes below the job class of ihe  
fob.  
{b} Thirteen (13} to eighteen (18) months:  
A titst learner period at a  
level four job classes below tha job class  
of the job and a second leamer period  
classification ai a level two job classes  
below the job class of the job,  
ic) Nineteen (18) months and above:  
A first period classilication al a  
lavel six job classes below the job class of  
the job; a second ieamer period  
classification at a level four job classes  
below the job class of the job; and a third  
learner period classification at a tevel wo  
Job classes below the job class of the job.  
The Company, at its discretion, may apply a  
learner rate io a eames On any job during any  
period of time where another employes, other ihan  
82  
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
(B)  
   
the leamer is on the job, provided the tearner sate  
applied is:  
(a)  
{b)  
The standard hourly wage scale rale for  
job class 1 in the case of an employee  
hited for the leaming job; or  
The tower figure of:  
(t} The hourly wage scale  
fate of the job from = which  
transferred, or  
(2) The standard hourly wage scale  
rate of the job being leamed  
in the case of an employee transierred  
from another job in the plant.  
Each hourly wage rate established under ihe foregoing  
Paragraph (A) of this Section 2 and as set forth in  
Appendix A is recognized as the rate ol a fair day's pay on  
the job and the astablished rate of pay for all hours of work  
on a Non-incentive job.  
(1)  
Each standard hourly wage rate established under  
the foragoing Paragraph (A) of this Section 2 and  
as set forth in Appendix A-1 is recognized as the  
rate of a fair day's pay on the job and js:  
(a)  
(b)  
The established hourly base rate of pay  
under any incentive that has been applied  
or that may be appliéd to the job during  
the term of this Agreement; and  
The established minimum rate of pay for  
the purposes of minimum guarantee set  
forth in Section € of this Article.  
83  
### _ _ ARTICLE Xiv - WAGES.  
(C)  
{D}  
(€)  
(F)  
{G)  
Sectlon 3  
   
_ oo  
(2) in addition, for each hour worked on an incentive  
job, ihe applicable hourty additive in Appendix A-t  
shall be added to incentive earnings calculated on  
ihe applicable incentive calculation rate in  
Appendix 4-1,  
The established rate of pay for each production or  
maintenance job, other than a trade ot cratt, or  
learning job, aS defined in Paragraph (A} of this Section 2,  
shall apply to any employee during such time as the  
employee is requited lo perform such job.  
The established starting rate, intermediate raie, or standard  
rate of pay for a trade or craft job, as defined in Paragraph  
(A}{1}) of this Section 2, shall apply to each employee  
duting such time as the employee is assigned to the  
respective fate classification in accordance wilh the  
applicable provisions of the August 1, 1971 Manual  
identified in Section 5 of this Antcle.  
The established apprentice rate of pay shall apply to an  
empkyee In accordance with the apprentice training  
periods, as delined respectively in Paragraph {A}2) of this  
Section 2.  
The established learner rale of pay shall apply to an  
employee in accordance with the learning periods defined  
respectively in Paragraphs {A)(3) and (4) of this Section 2.  
An apprenticeship committee, consisting of three  
employees dasignated by the Wnion, and three  
represeniatives of the Company, designated by the  
Company, will be recognized for the purpases of reviewing  
and discussing the Company's apprenticeship program.  
Trade or Craft Additive.  
Section 3 of Articts XIV of Ihe September 71, 1965 Basic Agreement  
B4  
   
   
   
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
provided for an increase by two full job classes of each of the trade  
and craft jobs listed in Paragraph (A}(1} of Section 2 of Article XIV  
of such amd similarly other jobs were increased by two  
tui job classes pursuant to Appendix E (Apprenticeship Training  
Memorandum of Understanding) of such Agreement. Sectian 3 of  
Ariela Xi¥ of the September 1, 1965 Agreement! further provided  
that this addition should be identified as a trade of crafi convention  
and should ba recorded as a separate item in Factor 7 of the  
agreed-upon classification.  
Such increase in Factor 7 is hereby made ar adjustment in the  
Trade and Craft Master Job Classifications. in addition, the apecific  
jobs adjusted by the two tull jab class additive under Factor 7 shall  
be deemed to be jobs classified under the 1, 1971 Manual,  
as amended,  
Section 4 New and Adjusted Incentives.  
{A} The Company, at iis discretion, may establish now  
incentives to cover:  
{a} new jobs on which tha Company is not required to  
establish incentives;  
{b) jobs not presently covered by incentive  
applicalions; or  
{c) jobs covered by an existing inceniive plan where,  
during the current threes (3} month period, the  
straight time average hourly eamings of employees  
under the plan are equal to or less than the  
average of the standard hourly wage rates for such  
  
{B) The shall apply to the adjustments or  
replacements of incentives:  
(a) The Company shail adjust an incentive to preserve  
85  
ARTICLE XIV-WAGES ——— > = —2 0 =) =  
(6)  
(c)  
iis integrity when it requires modification to reflect  
new or changed conditions which are not  
sufficiently axtansive to require cancellation and  
saplacement of the incentive and which result from  
mechanical improvements made by the Company  
in the interest af improved methads or products, or  
from changes in equipment, manufacturing  
processes or methods, materials processed, or  
or manufacturing standards. Such  
adjustment shail ba mace afectiva as of the data  
of ihe new or changed conditions requiring it and  
shail be in accordance with the  
procedure set forth in Paragraph (£) of this Section  
4.  
The Company shail establish a new incentive to  
teplace an existing incentive when such new of  
changed conditions as defined in Subparagraph (a)  
above are of such magnitude ihat replacement of  
the incentive is required.  
In the event that an incenilva is to be replaced  
pursuant to Subparagraph (b) above, and such  
replacement incentive is not ready for installation,  
the Company shall establish an interim period, until  
such incentive is apptied, as lollows:  
(1) The interim period shall continue until  
Management installs the new incentive,  
which shail be al the earliest practicable  
date following cancellaiion of the incentive  
to be replaced, but not later than six (8)  
months from euch cancellation unless such  
period is extended by mutual agreement  
between Managemant and the Grievance  
Committee,  
(2) Each employes on ithe respective job  
a6  
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
(3)  
(4)  
   
during the intarim peried shall receive, in  
addition to the applicable siandard hourly  
wage scale rate in Appendix A-1 and the  
applicable hourty additive, a special hourly  
inierim allowance equal to the percentage  
equivalent of the siraighl time average  
hourly samings (which do not include the  
applicable hourly additive) above the  
standard hourly wage rates in Appendix  
A-1 of all ragularly assigned incumbents of  
ihe job during the three (3) months ~  
immediately preceding cancellation of the  
incentive, provided the average  
performance af such three (3) month  
period is maintained. If tha job inveivedis  
@ new job, the interim allowance shall be  
the average interim allowance of the  
incumbents to whom such allowance  
applies expressed a3 an average of the  
applicable  
Such special hourly allowance shall  
bs identitied with the job: applied to any  
employee while on such job; and continue  
in effect until the of the  
cancelled incentive becomes  
In case an employee receiving a special  
hourly Interim voluntarily  
mainiaing a performance appreciably  
below that of the three (3} months  
immediately preceding cancellation of the  
incentive, after notification 10 such  
employee and the Grievance or Assisiant  
Grievance Committeeman representing the  
employes affected, application of the  
special hourly interim allowance may be  
suspended during such funher portion of  
87  
   
‘ARTICLE XIV=WAGES == - ~ = ew  
(C}  
the interim period as the rate ol  
performance voluniarily is maintained.  
New incentives esiablished pursuant to Paragraphs (A) and  
above shail ba established in accordance with ihe  
following procedure:  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
Management will develop the proposed incentive.  
The proposal will be submitted to the Piant Union  
Incentive Committee (as hereinatter established)  
along wilh such additional employees  
representative ol those affected by the proposal as  
the Commitige and Management shall deem  
Management shall explain the  
incentive for the purpose of arriving at agreement  
with such Committee as to its installation.  
Management shall, at such lime, furnish such  
explanation with regard io the development and  
determination of the incentive as shall reasonably  
be required in order lo enable the Committee and  
such employees to understand how such incentive  
was developed and delermined and shall alford to  
them a raasonable opportunily to be heard with  
regard to ihe proposed incentive.  
if agreement is not reached, ihe matter shalt be  
reviewed in detail by the Plani Union Incentive  
Commities and Management for the purpose of  
arriving at mutual agreement as ia installation of  
Ihe incentive.  
Should agreement not be reached, the proposed  
incentive may be installed by Management and the  
employees affected may, at any time afer thiny  
days, but within one hundred eighty (180) days  
following installation, file a complaint alleging that  
the incantive does not provide equilable incentive  
88  
   
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
{D)  
(E)  
compensation. Such complaint shail be initiated in  
Step 2 of the complaint and grievance procedure,  
Mf ihe grievance is submitted to the arbitration  
procedure, the arbitrator shall decide the question  
of equitable incenlive compensation and the  
decision of the arbitrator shall be effective as of the  
date when the incenlive was put inte effect.  
{5} In ihe event thes not develop an  
incentive, as provided in Paragraph (8Kb) above,  
ihe employee or employees atfected may, if  
initiated promptly, process a complaint under the  
complaint and grievance procedure of this  
Agreement requesting that an incentive be installed  
in accordance with ihe provisions of this  
subsection. If the grievance is to  
arbitration, the decision of the arbitrator shal) be  
elactive as to the date when the complaint was  
initiated.  
When an incentive is replaced, pursuant to Paragraph  
(B)(b) above, the incentive earnings {which do not include  
the applicable hourly additive) expressed as a  
above the Appendix A-1 standard hourly wage ate on the  
replacement incentive for a job covered thereunder shall  
not be fess than the percentage of incentive samings  
(which do not includes the applicable hourly additive}  
received as an average by regularly assigned incumbenis  
of that job under the replaced inventive during the three (3}  
months preceding its cancelation provided that the average  
performance during such three (3} month period ig  
maintained. As to any job which did nol exist under the  
replaced incanlive, the average percentage calculated tor  
jobs which did exist shall apply under the same conditions.  
Adjusted incentives, established pursuant to Paragraph  
(B)}{a} above, shal) be established in accordance with tha  
procedure:  
### BS  
### ARTICLE Xi¥ - WAGES  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
Managemen! will develop and install the  
adjustment as soon as practicable.  
The will ba submitted lo the Plant  
Union Incentive Committee for the purpose of  
notification, and Management shall furnish such  
explanation of the adjustment as shall reasonably  
be required to enable such commitiee lo  
undersiand how such an adjustment was  
developed.  
The employees aflectad may, at any lime after  
thirty (30) days, but within one hundred eighty  
(180) days following installation, iniliate a complaint  
under the complaint and grievance procedure of  
this Agreement. ff the grievance is submilted to Ihe  
arbitration procedure, the arbitrator shall decide the  
issue of compliance with the requirements of  
Paragraph (B)(a) above and the decision of the  
arbitrator shail be effective as of (ha date when the  
adjustment was put into  
In the even! Management does not adjust an  
incentive, as provided in Paragraph (B)(a} above,  
tha employee or employees affected may, if  
initiated promptly, process a complaint under the  
complaint and grievance procedure sequesting that  
an adjustment to the incentive be installed in  
accordance with the provisions of thie Paragraph  
(E). If ihe grievance is to arbitration, the  
decision oi the arbitrator shall be eifectiva as of the  
date when the complaint was initiated.  
In ihe interest of eifactive administration of incentives and  
incentive grievances, a Plant Union Incentive Committse is  
establishad. The Committee shail consist of three  
members, two of whom shall be permanent members ot  
which one shall be Chairman. The third member shall be  
90  
   
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
(3)  
Section 5  
(A}  
the Grievance Committeeman irom the area involving the  
subject incentive application. Where such application  
involves more than one araa, the Union shai} delermine the  
appropriate Grievance Committeeman. The Local Union  
President shall appaint the two permanent members.  
Management shail provide acklitiona! materials and training  
for informing ihe members of the Committee on  
matters relating to the development and administration of  
incentives. When a complaint is referred to Step 2 of the  
complaint and grievance concerming alleged  
violations of Section 4 or 6 of this Article, the Chairman of  
the Plant Union tncentive Committee shak be exclusively  
responsible lor processing such complaints in Slep 2 and  
Step 3 of the complaint and grievance procedure. The  
shall be guided by the same requirements with  
respect to the complaint and grievance procedure as are  
set forth in Aniicle ¥ for the processing of other complaints  
or gtievances,  
The Check List set forth in Appendix G is provided to serve  
as a guide for the parties in the full and orderty  
presentation of all facts relating to complaints arising with  
faspeci to incaniive matters under Saction 4 ar 6 of this  
Article. All information so daveloped shall ba mada a part  
of the written record in Step 3.  
Description and Classification of New or Changed  
Jobs.  
In the interest of the effective administration of the Job  
Description and Classification procedures, as set forth in  
the August 1, 1971 Job and Classification  
Manual, as amended, a Plant Union Committea on Job  
Classification {hereinaltter called the Plant Union  
Committee) consisting of thrae employees designated by  
the Union shall be established,  
The Augusi 1, 1971 Job Description and Classification  
91  
~«  
   
ARTICLE ee eae  
(hereinatter to as the “Manual"} agreed to  
by the parties is heraby made a part of this Agreement and  
shall be used to describe and classify all new or changed  
jobs In accordance with the procedure.  
This procedure is aot to be consirved or interpreted in any  
way a$ a license tor any review of job dascriptions and  
classitications currently in efieci except as provided below:  
(1)  
(2}  
All new jobs, including trade or craft jobs,  
established on or aflar August 1, 1971, shall be  
classitied by the provisions sel forth in ine Manual.  
All jobs that aro changed in job conient  
of the job as to training, skill,  
responsibiity, attorl, or working conditions) an or  
alter August 1, 1971, shall be rectassified only in  
those factors aflected by the change, using only  
Section V of the Manuat - "The Basic Factors and  
Instructions for Their Application” and Section Vi of  
the Manual - “Conventns for Classification ol  
Designated Jobs* where applicable. When and il  
thé net tota) of the changes in the factors affactad  
equals {ass ihan. one full job cass, a  
supplementary racord shall 66 established to  
maintain the job descriation and classitication on 6  
current basis and to enable a subsequent  
adjustment of ihe job description and classification  
for an accumulation of small job content changes.  
When and It the net total of the changes In ihe  
laciors aflected, or the accumulation of such  
changes, equals a net tolal of one full job clags or  
more, a new job descripiian and classification for  
the job shall be established in accordance with  
item {1} above,  
(8} Ths job description and classification for each job in elfect  
as ol the date of this Agreemani shall in eifect  
$2  
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
(C)  
unless (1) Management changes the job content  
(raquirements of the job as to the skill,  
responsibility, efion, and working conditions) to the extant  
of ong lull job class or more; (2} the job is terminated or not  
occupied during a period of one yaar; or (3) the description  
and classification are changed in accordance with mutual  
agreement of officially designated representatives of the  
Company and the Union,  
When and iF fram time to time the Company, at its dis-  
crelion, establishes & new job or changes the job conient  
(requirements of the job as 16 training, skill, responsibility,  
and working conditions) of an existing job to the  
extant af one full job dass or mare, a new job description  
and classification for the new or changed job shail be  
established in accordance with the folowing procedure:  
(1) Management will develop a description and  
Classification of the job in acconiance with the  
provisions of the Manual,  
{2) The proposed description and classification will ba  
submitted to the Plant Union Committee for  
approval, and the standard hourly wage Scale rate  
for ihe job class to which the job is thus assigned  
shall apply in accordance wilh the provisions af  
Subsection (8) af this Section. At Ihe same time,  
copies of the proposed and  
ctassification shall be sent to a designated  
iapresentative of the Internationa! Union. If the job  
involves new-type facilities or a new-type job,  
special designation of this fact shall be made.  
(3) The Plant Union and Management shall  
discuss and determing ihe accuracy o! the job  
description.  
ARTICLE'XIV> WAGES © -- ee eee  
(4)  
   
if Management and the Plant Union Committee are  
unable to agrea upon the description and  
classification, shall install the  
proposed classification, and the standard hourly  
wage scale rats for the job dass to which the job  
is thus assigned shail apply in accordance with  
of Subsection (B) of this Section. The  
Pian Union Committee shall be  
responsible for the filing of and may, at  
any time within 30 days from the date ol  
installation, file a grievance with the plant  
management representative designated by the  
Company alleging that the job is improperly  
described and/or classified under the provisions of  
the Thereupon the Plant Union  
and Management shall prapare and  
mutually sign & stipulation setiing forh the factors  
and factor codings which ara In dispute.  
Thereatier, such grievance shall be refered by the  
respective parties (to iheir Fourth Step  
fepresentatives for turiher consideration. In the  
event the Fourth Step are unabie  
to agree on the description and classification within  
30 days, hey shall prepare and mutually sign a  
Stipulation {which may amend the stipulation set  
by the Plant Union Committee and  
selting forih the factors and factor  
codings which are in dispute, and a summary  
slating reasons for the respective positions of the  
Parties at both ihe Plant Commiltee and the Fourth  
Step levels, 8 copy of which shall be sant to a  
designated representative of Management and the  
aforementioned representative of the Intemational  
Union. The receipt by the Union's Fourth Step  
of such stipulation and summary  
shall be deemed Io be receipt of the minutes for  
the purposes ol time limit requirements in making  
an appeal to arbitration.  
94  
   
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
Section 6  
(A)  
(8)  
in the event the parties fai to agres as provided,  
and no request tor review ar arbitration is made  
within thea time provided, the classification, as  
prepared by the Company, shalt be deemed to be  
approved.  
(6) tn the event Management does not develop a new  
job description and classification, the Plant Unian  
Committee may, if initiated promptly, process a  
complaint under the complaint ari grievance  
procedure of this Agreement that a job  
description and classification be developed and  
instaked in accordance with the provisions of the  
Manual. The resulting classifications shall ba  
effective as of the date when the new job was  
established o¢ ine change or installed.  
Existing Incentive Plans.  
All existing incentive plans in effect on January 27, 1960,  
and al! incentives installed after January 27, 1960, shall  
remain in effect until replaced by mutual agreement of the  
Plant Union Incentive Committea and Management or until  
replaced of adjusted by the Company in accordance with  
Section 4 of this Article. Any general increase in slandard  
hourly wage rates granted under thia Agreement shall be  
reflacied in the calculation of eamings under all incentive  
plans in effect as of the effective date of any such increase,  
Each employee, while compensated under an existing  
incentive plan in effect, shall receive for the applicable  
single or multiple number of eight (8) hour turns the highest  
al the foltowing:  
(1) The total earnings under such plan plus the  
applicable hourly additive as specilied in Appendix  
### OF  
9S  
### ARTICLE XIV: WAGES  
(2} The tatal amount arrived at by multiplying the hours worked  
Section 7  
Section 8  
(A}  
(8)  
(C)  
Section 9  
by the applicable standard hourly wage rate as specified In  
Appendix A-1 plus the applicable hourly additive.  
(Reserved for future use.)  
Adjustment of Personal Out-of-Line Differentiais on  
incentive and Non-incentive Jobs,  
As of the effective date of any increases made in the job  
class increments in the standard hourly wage scale under  
this Agreement, the personal oul-of-line dilferentials of all  
incumbents of incentiva and non-ncantive jobs shal be  
adjusted or eliminated by apptying ihat part af the increase  
in the standard hourly wage scala rate for the job which ig  
attributed to ihe increase in ihe increments between job  
io reduce or eliminate such personal ovt-of-ine  
differaniiats.  
Any persona! out-oftine differantial remaining alter the  
adjustment provided for in Paragraph {A} above shall be  
identified with the employee and ihe job occupied and shall  
apply only 10 such employee while on such job.  
The out-of-tine differential multiplied by the hours paid for  
on the job shalt be edded to earnings of the  
   
The Company will not asisblish performance siandards for non-  
incentive jobs, except as such jobs are covered by incentives.  
Section 10  
Wage Rate inequity Complaints or Grievances  
No basis shall exist for an employse, whether paid on en incentive  
or nor-incentive to allege that a wage rate inequity exists and  
no complaints or grievances on behalf of an employee alleging a  
wage rate inequity shall be Initlated or processed during the term of  
this Agreement.  
96  
   
### ARTICLE XIV WAGES  
### Section 11 Correction of Errors.  
Notwilhstanding any provisions of this Anicte, errors in  
of rates of pay shalt be corrected.  
Section 12 Allowance Provision.  
In the event an employee is assigned temporarily at the request or  
diraction of Management from his regular job to another job, such  
employee, in accordance with the provisions of this Anicle, shall  
receive the established rate of pay for ihe job performed,  
In addition, while performing work under Such circumsiances, such  
employes shatt receive such special allowance as may be required  
lo equal the earnings that otherwise would have been realized by  
tha employee. This provision shall not affect the rights of any  
employee or the Company under any other provision of this  
Agreement,  
Employees transferred at the direction of Management to anothar  
job assignmem within a job dascription when specific assignments  
are fixed tor bidding, overtime, and scheduling purposes, shall be  
eligthie for the “special allowance” referred to in this Article XIV,  
Section 12, provided work is available to be performed on his  
regutarly assigned job and provided further that he maintains the  
average performance during the preceding three months on the job  
assignment to which he is transferred.  
Section 13 Shift Ditferentlals,  
For hours worked on the second shift, there shall be paid a  
premium rate of thirty cents ($.30) per hour. For hours worked on  
ihe third shift, there shall be paid a premium of forty-five cants  
($.45) per hour.  
The first, secand, and third shifts shall be defined as follows:  
(a) The first shift (day shifl) shall include alt shifis scheduled to  
97  
   
start between 5:00 A.M. and 9:00 A.M., both inclusive;  
(b) The second shift (aftamoon shifi} shall include all shifts  
scheduled to start between 1:00 P.M. and 5:00 P.M., both  
inclusive;  
(c) The third shift (night shift) shall include all shifts scheduled  
to start between 9:00 P.M. and 1:00 A.M., both inclusive.  
An employee commencing work on the lirst shift as defined above  
shall not be paid any shift difarential unless he worke eight (8) or  
MOTe CONSECulIVE hours following the completian of his  
first shift and for such time worked alter the completion of his first  
shift hours, he shall be paid the second shift  
An employee commencing work on the second shift as defined  
above shall receive the second shift differential untess he works  
eight (8} or more consecuiive hours immedsately following his  
second shifl hours and for such time worked following his second  
shifl hours, he shall receive the third shiit diiferential.  
An employee commencing work on the third shift as defined above  
shall the third shift differential unless he works aight {8) or  
more consecutive hours immediately following the completion of his  
third shifl and for such time worked following his third shilt hours,  
he shall not receive any differential.  
An employees who does not begin (0 work on one of the three shifis  
as defined above, and who is not making up lost Ime, shall be paid  
for time worked as follows:  
{a} For hours worked between 7:00 A.M. and 3:00 P.M., both  
inclusive, no shit differentiat shall be paid;  
(b} Far hours worked between 3:00 P.M. and 11:06 P.M., both  
inclusive, the second shift dilfarential shall be paid;  
9B  
   
### ARTICLE XIV WAGES  
{c) For hours worked between 11:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M., both  
inctusive, ihe third shift differential shal} be paid.  
An employee who is late for work and is permitted by the Company  
io make up the time thal he lost shall be paid for such make-up  
lime the same shift differential, it any, as he would have received  
lor His scheduled shit.  
The faur {4} hours reporting pay shall be considered as the first four  
(4) scheduted hours of work for the purpose of datermining tha shift  
differentials.  
Shift ditterentials shail be inctuded in the of overtime  
compensation. Shik differentials shail not be added to the hourty  
base fates which are used to determine incentive earnings.  
Section 14 Earnings Protection Pian,  
(A) Purpose.  
The purpose of tha Earnings Protection Plan (EPP) is to  
protect a level of earnings for hours worked by employees,  
with particular emphasis on employees displaced in  
technological change, through provision of a benefit 10 be  
known a5 @ Quarteny Income Benatit {(Q1B), which, when  
added to an employee's average earnings for hours worked  
in & quarter, will increase such average eamings to a  
specified percentage of the average earnings  
for hours worked during a base period preceding such  
quarter.  
(B) Oefinitions.  
When used in the EPP of in any agreement relating  
theraia, the following tarms are intended io have the  
meaning set forth below:  
ARTICLE XIV-WAGES - = - - -- ooo,  
“Average Earnings” - Average straight time hourly  
rate of eamings, determined by dividing total  
eamings {including applicable incentive earnings  
bul excluding shift differentials and Sunday and  
overtime premiums} for all hours worked by the  
number of hours worked.  
“Base Period" - The pay paid in the  
calendar year preceding the benefit quarter,  
provided, however, thal wilh respect to any  
employee who has tweniy or more years of  
continuous service al the start of the firet benefit  
quarter in any calendar year, ihe base period shall  
be the pay periods paid in the second calendar  
year next preceding the benefil quarter if his base  
period rate for such calendar year is higher than  
his base period rate for the calendar year  
immediately preceding the benelit quarter.  
*Base Perlod Rate" - The average earnings for  
the base pariod, plus the amount per siraight time  
hour worked of any Q/B paid for straight time hours  
workéd in the base pariod,  
“Benefit Quarier" - The pay periods paid in a  
calendar quarter with respect to which benelit  
detenninatlons are to be mada.  
"Benefit Quarter Rate” - The average earnings  
for the benefit quarter.  
“Continuous Service" - Continuous service as  
under the Company's non-contributory  
pension provisions.  
“Eligible Emptoyees” - Employees who have two  
or more yeass of continuous service as of the and  
100  
  
   
### - ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
o! the benelit quarter and who have worked 160 or  
more hours during the base period.  
"SUB Plan" - The SUB Plan established pursuant  
to Article XVII, Supplemental Unemployment  
### Benefit Pian.  
{C) Quarterly Income Benelits.  
{1} Each eligible employes shall receive a QIB, subject  
to all provisions of (he EPP, for any benefit quarter  
for which his benefit quarter rata does not equal or  
exceed 85% of his base period rate; provided,  
however, that any employee who has twenty or  
more years of continuous service at the start of the  
first benefit quarter in any calendar year shall  
receive a QIB, subject to all the provisions ol the  
EPP, for any benefit quarter for which his benetit  
quarler rate does mot equal or exceed 90% af his  
base penod rate.  
{2} Subject to the provisions of (3} and (4) below, the  
amount of ihe QIB for an employee shall be  
delermined with reference to the hours worked by  
him in the benelit quarter by multiplying (i} the sum  
of the number of such hours paid lor at straight  
plug 1.5 times the number of such hours paid  
for ai overtime rates by (ii) ihe amount, if any, by  
which his benefit quarter tale was less than 85% of  
his base period rate; provided, however, that with  
respect io any employee who has lwenty or more  
years of continuous service al the start of the lirst  
benefit quarter in any calendar year, the amount of  
ihe QIB shal) be determined wilh reference to the  
hours worked by him in the benefit quarter by  
multiptying {i) the sum ol the of such haurs  
paid for al straight time plus 1.5 times the number  
101  
(9)  
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
(3)  
(4)  
   
— tl . 7 7 = me  
of such hours paid for at overiime rates by (ii) the  
amount, if any, by which his benefit quarter rate  
was less than 90% af his base penod rate.  
In determining tha amount of a QIB, the base  
period rate and ihe benefit quarter rate shall be  
appropriately adjusted to neutralize the effect of  
any general wage change occurring afler the start  
of the base period,  
Any O18 othenvise payable shall be adjusted io the  
extent necessary to avoid a payment under this  
plan which would duplicate a payment under a  
workmen's compensation or occupational disaase  
law of under any other arrangement which  
provides an earnings supplament.  
Disqualification.  
(1)  
An employee shall nat be paid any QIB for any  
benefit quarter if it is determined that his benefit  
quvaner rate was lower than it  
otherwise would have been because of any of the  
following (accurring in of before such benefit  
quaner):  
(a) Assipnmeni at his own request of due to  
his own fault io a job with lower sarning  
opportunities of failure to accept  
essignmerk, or to assert assignment righis,  
to a job with highes eamings opportunities:  
except in the case of assignmenis related  
to tha manning of a new facility or other  
situations where it is clear trom the  
surrounding circumstances that such event  
should not affect eligibility for a QB.  
(b) Lower average performance under any  
102  
### ARTICLE XIV - WAGES  
(2)  
incentive than that which was  
reasonabty attainable.  
{c) Any occurrence which would disqualily the  
employee from a Weekly Benelil pursuant  
to Paragraph 3.5-c(1}, (2), or (3) of the  
SUB Pian.  
If an employee quits or is discharged, no QIB shall  
de payable for the benefit quarter in which such  
quit or discharge occurs,  
(E) General.  
{t)  
(2}  
Any payable in accordance with the terms ol  
this plan shall be paid prompily alter the end of the  
benefit quarter for which it is payable, shalt be  
considered wages for the purposes of any  
applicable law, and shall be included in calculating  
earnings for the purposes of the Company's  
non-contributory pension provisions and vacations,  
bul not tor the SUB Plan or any other purpose.  
For ihe purpose above provided, tha shall  
constitute wages for the calandar quarier in which  
it ts paid,  
The Union shall be fumished, on forms and al  
timas to be agreed upon, such information as may  
be reasonably required to enable the Union to be  
properly informed conceming ihe operation of ihe  
EPP. In addition, with respect to any benefit  
quarter, the Chairman of the Grievance Committee,  
if be so requests, shall be jurmished with a fist of  
employees represenied by such Committee who  
received QB's and the amount of such QIB’s ark  
a list of ernployees represented by such Committee  
who did nol receive QIB’s because of one of the  
disqualifications listed in (b), oF fc).  
103  
   
### ARTICLE XV - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE  
### ARTICLE xv  
### SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE  
Section 1 Conditions of Allowance,  
When, in the sale judgment of the Company, it decides to close  
permanently a plant or discontinue permanently a department of  
a plant of substantial portion thereol and terminate the  
employment of individuals, an employee whose employment Is  
terminated sither directly or indirectly as a result thereof because  
he was not entitled to olher employment with the Company under  
any applicable of this Agreement and Section 2 below  
shall be entitled to a severance allowance in accordance with and  
subject to the following provisions.  
Bafore the Company shall finally decide to dose permanently a  
plani or discontinue permanently a depariment of a it shall  
give the Union, when practicable, advance written notilication of  
its intentian. Such notification shall be given at least 90 days prior  
to the proposed closure date, and the Company will thereafter  
meet with the appropriate Union representatves in order to  
provide them with an opportunity to discuss the Company's  
proposed course of action, and to provide information to the  
Company and to suggest alternative courses. During these  
meetings, the Company shall provide the Union with its reasons  
for the proposed course of action. Upon conciusion of such  
meetings, which in no event shall be lass than 30 days prior to  
ihe proposed closure or partial closure date, the Company shall  
advise the Union of its final The final closure decision  
shall be the exctusive lunciian of the Company. This notification  
provision shall act be inierprated to offsel the Company's igh to  
lay off or In any other way reduce or increase the working force  
in accordance wilh iis presently existing rights as set forth In  
Article i) of this Agreement,  
104  
### ARTICLE XV - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE  
Section 2  
Eligibility.  
Such an employae, to be eligible for a severance allowance, shall  
have accumulated three (3) or more years of continuous  
Company service as computed in accordance with Article XVI,  
Seniority, of this Agreement.  
(A)  
(B).  
Section 3  
In lieu of Severance allowance, the Company may offer  
an sligible emptoyee a job, in at least the same job class  
for which he is in the same general locality.  
The employee shall have the option of either accepting  
such new employment or requesting his severance  
allowance. if an employee accepts such other  
employment, his continuous service record shall be  
deemed to have commenced as of the date of the  
transfer, excep! that for the purposes of severance  
allowance under this Article, and for purposes of Article  
Xlll, Vacations, his previous continuous service  
shall be maintained and not be deemed to have been  
broken by the transfer.  
AS an exception to Paragraph (A) above, an employes  
otherwise eligible for severance allowance who is entitled  
under this Agreement! to a job in at least the same job  
class in another pan of the same plant shall not be  
entitled io severance aliowance whether he accepts or  
rajecis the transfer. if such transfer results directly in the  
permanent displacement of some other employee, the  
jatter shall be eligible for severance pay provided he  
otherwise qualifies under the terms of this Section.  
Scale of Allowance.  
An eligible individual shall receive severance allowance based  
upon the following weeks for tha corresponding continuous  
Company service:  
105  
### AATICLE KV - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE  
Weeks of  
Continuous Company Service Severance Allowance  
3 years bul less than 5 years  
5 years but less than 7 years  
7 years bul less than 10 years  
10 years or more  
ao “mh  
Section 4 Caiculation of Allowance.  
A waek’s severance allowance shall be determined in accordance  
with the lor calculation of vacation pay as set forth in  
Article Xill, Vacations.  
### Section 5 Payment of Allowance.  
Payment shall be mada in a lump sum at the time of termination.  
Acceptance of severance allowance shall terminate amploymeni  
and continuous service lor all pumoses under this Agreement.  
Section of Allowance.  
Severance allowance shall not be duplicaied for tha same  
severance, whether the oiher obligatian arises by reason of  
contract, law, or otherwise. If an individual is or shall become  
entitied to any discharge, liquidation, severance, or dismissal  
allowance or payment of similar kind by reason oj any law of the  
United States of America or any of the States, districts, or  
lerritories ihereo! subject to Its jurisdiction, the total amount of  
such payments shall be deducted from the severance allowance  
io which the individual may be entiilad under this Article, or any  
payment made by the Company under this Anicle may be olfset  
against such payments, Statutory unamploymeni compensation  
payments shall be excluded from the non-duplication provisions  
of this paragraph,  
106  
### ARTICLE XV - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE  
### Section 7 Election Conceming Layoff Status.  
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, an  
who would have otherwise been terminated in  
accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreament and  
under the circumstances specified in Section 1 of this Articla  
ihereupon may, at such time, slact to be placed upon layoff status  
lor thirty (30) days or to continue on layofl status for an additional  
thirty (30) days If he had already been on layoff status. Al the end  
of such thirty (30) day period, he may elect fo continue on layoff  
Status or to O68 terminated and receive severance allowance if he  
is eligible to any such allowance under the provisions of this  
Articte; provided, however, if he elecis to on layoff status  
after iha thirty (30) day peried specified ahove, and is unable to  
sécure employment with the Company within an additional eixty  
(60) day period, at the conclusion of such additional sixty (60) day  
period, he may elect to be terminated and receive severance  
allowance if fe is eligibie for such allowance, Any Supplemental  
Unemployment Banelit payment received by him for any period  
after the beginning of such thirty (30) day period shall be  
deducted from any such Severance allowance to which he would  
have baen otherwise eligible at the beginning of such tiny (30)  
day pariad.  
107  
### — ARTICLE XVI SENIORITY.  
-_——-_— =—  
   
—_—_——— ee ee  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### SENIORITY  
Section 1 Seniority Status of Emptoyees.  
The panies recognize that promotional and job  
securily in event of promotions, decreases of forces, and recalls  
after tayofts should increase in proportion to length of continuous  
service, and that in the administration of this Anicle, the intent  
will ba that whenever practicable, iult consideration shall be  
given continuous service in such cases.  
In recognition, however, of the responsibility of Management [or  
the efficiert operation of the plant, it is understood and agread  
that in al! cases of:  
(A) Promotion promotions to positions excluded under  
the definition of "employees"), the following as  
fisted below shail be however, only where  
factors “(b)* and "{c}* are relatively equal shall of  
continuous service be the determining factor:  
(a} Continuous service  
{b} Abilily io perform the work  
(c) fitness  
(B) Decrease tn forces or recalls after jayotls, the following  
factors as listed below shalt be considered; however, only  
where both factors “(b)" and “(c)" are ralatively equal shail  
lengih of continuous service be the determining factor:  
{a} Continuous service  
(b) Ability to perform the work  
(c) Physical fitness  
(C} —_ Nothing in thi Section 1 shall prevent Management and  
the Grievance Committee from agreeing in writing that {4}  
108  
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
an employee may fill a lower permanent job opening in  
his promotional sequence, or (2) in the case of an  
employee who has been downgraded due to a reduction  
in the working forces, such employee may fill a job which  
pays higher earnings.  
Section 2 Determination of Seniority Units.  
Seniority shall be applied in the established seniority unit, which  
may be a section, a division, or any subdivision thereof, as  
established or agraed upon. A job may be in one seniority unit for  
one purpose, such as promotions, and may be in a different  
seniority unit for another purpose, such as layoffs. Subject to the  
revision raquired elsewhere in this Articla XVI, the existing  
seniority unit or units to which the seniority factors shall be applied  
and the rules for application of the seniority factors, including  
service dates within these units, covered by existing agreements,  
shall remain in effect unless or until modified by written agreement  
signed by Management, the President of the Loca! Union, and the  
Chairman {or acting in his behall, the Assistant Chairman) of the  
Grievance Committee of the Union. seniority  
agreements, including agreements covering divisions or units  
thereof, shall be signed on behalf of the Union by the President of  
the Local Union and the Chairman of the Grievance Committee of  
the Union, and shall be posted in the plant.  
in each division, the Company will post a list of employeas  
assigned to that division, setting forth sach employee's langih of  
continuous section, division, and plant service. Such lists wilt be  
revised by ihe Company at least once each six (6) months, and  
@ copy thereof shall be given to the Chaiman of the Grievance  
Committee.  
In any case in which agreement cannot be cansummated as to  
the seniority units in which a new job or new jobs, including those  
in new, merged, or iransferrad operations, are to be placed,  
Management shall include such job or jobs in the most appropriate  
seniority unit or, if more appropriate, establish a new seniority unit,  
109  
### AATICLE XVI - SENIORITY - eee:  
subject to the complaint and grsvance procedure of this  
Agreement. The saniority unit charts applicable to the various  
divisions shall be kept up-to-date by the Company. When a  
permanent change in the relationship of jobs in a particular  
senioriiy unit takes place, the charts shall be revised in  
aceardance with the followed in the of  
such charts.  
Whenever employees {other than transitional or probationary  
empkoyees)} are to be lald off, the Company shall give the Union  
written notice, and whenever possible, three (3) days in advance.  
Sectlon 3 Posting of Job Openings.  
In accordance with the on Rules for ihe Application of  
the Senlority Factors as set forth in a subsequent part of this  
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the “Seniority Rules”), the  
following shall apply:  
(A) When a vacancy develops or Is expecied ta develop  
{other than a temporary vacancy) in tha promotional line  
in any seniority unil, Management shall post notices of  
auch vacancy or expected vacancy for such period of time  
and in such manner as may be appropriate.  
(B) Employees in the applicable seniority unit or units who  
wish to apply for the vacancy or expected vacancy may  
do $0 in wriling in accordance with the Seniority Rules.  
(C) Management shall, if in its judgment there are applicants  
qualified for the vacancy or expected vacancy, {ill same  
irom among such applicants in accordance with the  
provisions of Sections 1 and 2 of this Anicte,  
Section 4 Interpiant and Intraplant Transfers.  
ttis recognized that conflicling seniority daims among employees  
110  
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
may aefise when plant or department facilities are created,  
expanded, added, merged, or discontinued involving the possitte  
transter of amployees. li is agreed that such claims are matiers  
for which adjustment shall be sought Ostween Management and  
the appropriate grievance representatives or committees.  
In the event the above procedure does not result in agreement,  
the Intematianal Union and the Company may work out such  
as they deem appropriate, irrespective of existing  
seniority agreements existing pursuant to Section 2 of this Article  
or may submit the matter to arbitration under such conditions,  
procedures, guides, and stipulations as to which they may  
mutually agree.  
Section 5 Temporary Promotions.  
In accordance wilh the Seniority Aules, in casas of temporary  
vacancies involving temporary assignments within a seniority unit,  
the Company shall, to the greatest dagree consistent with  
efficiency of the operation and tha safety of employess, assign the  
employee with langest continuous service in the unit, provided  
such employee desires the assignment. Such temporary  
assignments shail be regarded as training by which tha Campany  
may assist employees older in sarvice lo become qualified for  
permanent promotion as promotion may de available.  
Section 6 Shift Preference.  
The Company agrees with the Union that wherever it is practical,  
shifts will be rotaied. However, by mutual agreement of the  
Company and the Union, shifts may de stationary. On siationary  
shifts, shift preference will be granied, subject to existing  
agreements, to with the longest continuous service in  
the seniorily unit involved when permanent vacancies occur as  
follows:  
(a) In the event of a permanent vacancy in a job classification  
{ar craft job) on any shift, preference for this vacancy shall  
111  
### XVI - SENIORITY  
bs given in sccontance with length of continuous service  
in the seniority unit to qualiftad in the same job  
classification or craft.  
(b) Employees on stationary shifts will have the appartunity to  
select ihe shift of their preference and, notwithsianding  
the provisions of the preceding paragraph, once each  
year, an employee may request a transfer to another shift.  
Any employee's right to a shift shall bs determined by his  
length of continuous service in the seniority unit and his  
qualilications to perform the work involved.  
{c) Apprentices will be assigned to turns consistent with their  
training requirements and the efficiency of the operation.  
in the absence of these considerations, apprentices will  
be assigned Io turns pursuant to Article XVI, Section 6,  
The foragoing provisions of this Section shall not be construed in  
any way fo fimil the Company from maintaining an adequate  
number of skillad and employees in each section an  
each shift.  
Section 7 Probationary  
New employees and those hired after a break in continuity of  
service will be regarded as probalionary for the first  
tive hundred and twenty (520) hours of actual work and will  
receive no continuous service credit during such  
Probationary may inijiate complaints under this  
but may be laid off, discharged, or terminated as  
exclusively determined by Management; pravided that this will nat  
be used for purposes of discrimination because of race, color,  
religious creed, national ongin, or sax, or because of mambership  
In the Union. Probationary employees continued in the service of  
the Company subsequent to the first fve hundred and twenty  
{520) hours of actual work shall receive full continuous service  
credit from date of original hiring; provided, however, where a  
probationary employee is reliaved ftom work because of lack of  
112  
   
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
work and his employment status terminated in connectian  
therewith, and he is subsequently rehired within one year trom the  
date of such termination, the hours of actual work accumulated by  
such probationary employee during his first employment shall be  
added to ihe hours of actual work accumulated during his second  
amployment in determining when the employee has completed  
five hundred and twenty (520) hours of actual work; provided,  
however, that should such an employee complele five hundrad  
and iwenty (520) hours of actual work in accordance with this  
sentence, his continuous service dala will be tha date of hire ol his  
second hiring. if, however, such an employee is rehired within two  
weeks of his last termination from employment at the same plant,  
his continuqus service date will ba the date of hire for his prior  
amploymeni.  
Section & Calculation of Continuous Service.  
   
Continuous service shall be calculated from date of first  
empioyment or reemployment following a break in continuous  
service in accordance with the following provisions; provided,  
however, that tha affective date of prior ta the dale  
of ihis shall be the date oi first employment or  
reemployment after any event which constituted a break in service  
under the practices in effact at the time the break occurred;  
(1) These Shall be no deduction for any time fost which does  
not constitute a break in continuous service excepi as  
provided in Paragraph (3} betow.  
(2) Continuous service shali be broken in the manner set  
forth in Paragraph (3) betow, and by:  
{a) An employee who voluntarily quit.  
{b) An amployee who is discharged for just cause,  
provided that if the employee is rehired within six  
(6) months, the break in conlinuous service shall be  
removed,  
113  
   
Eh OE rl ee ee  
SS Sm ee a  
— —__ a  
### ARTICLE XV! - SENIORITY  
(9)  
{c} Termination in accordance with Article XV,  
### Severance Allowance.  
(d) An employee who is absent for five (5) working  
days without notifying ihe Company (unless ihe  
employes can establish that it was physically  
impossible for him to do so) or an employee who  
has been (aid off, faits to notify the Company of his  
intention to return to work after being recalled  
within two (2} working days, or fails to report for  
work within seven (7) days after writien notice of  
recall {letter or ielegram) has been sent io ihe  
address appearing on tha records. The  
Union shall be given a list of employees on the  
list who are recalled as provided here,  
{s} An employee who fails to report for work at ihe  
termination of a leave of absence.  
(fj Absence in excess of two (2) years, except as  
provided in Paragraphs (3) and {4) below.  
lf an employee is absent because of layoff or physical  
disability in excess of two years, he shall continue to  
accumulate continuous service during such absence for an  
additional period equal to (i) three (3) years, or (ii) the  
excess, H any, of his length of continuous service at  
commencement af such absence over iwo {2} years,  
‘whichever is less. Any accumutation in excess of two (2)  
yeare during such absence shail be counted, however, only  
for purposes of this XVI, including local agreements  
thereunder, and shall not be counted for any other purpose  
under this or any olher agreament between the Company  
and the International Union. Notwilhsianding the foregoing,  
an employee, who al the commencement of an absence  
solely due to layolf has three (3) or more years of  
continuous service, shall continue to accumulate continuous  
service for all purposes during such absence for a pariod  
114  
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
nol excesding three (3) years. In order to avoid a break in  
service within the above period after an absence in excess  
of two years, an employee absent because of layofl or  
physical disability must report for work promptly upon  
termination of etther cause, provided, in the case of layoff,  
the Company has mailed a recall notice to the last address  
furnished to the Company by ihe employee.  
(4} Absence dus to a compensable disability incurred during  
course of employment shall not break conlinuous service,  
provided such individual is retumed to work within thirty (30)  
days after finad payment of statutory compensation lor such  
disability or after the end of the period used in calculating  
a lump sum payment.  
Section 9 Decrease of Force.  
In the event @ deciaase of work, other than decreases which may  
occur from day to day, results in the reduction to an average of  
ihirty-two (32) hours per week for the employees in the seniority unit  
and a further decrease of work appears imminent, which in the  
Company's judgment may for an exiended period and will  
necessitaie a decrease of force or a reduction in hours worked for  
such below an average of thiny-two (32) hours per  
week, the Management of the plant and the Grievance Committee  
will coniar in an atlempt to agree as to whether a decrease of force  
shall be effected in accordance with this Article or the available  
hours of work shall be distributed as equally between such  
employees as is practicable with due regard for ihe skills  
_ and abllities required to perfomm the available work. [In the event of  
disagreement, shall not divide the work on a basis of  
less than thirty-two (32) hours per week.  
Section 10 Seniority Status of Grievance Commitieemen and Loca)  
Union Officers.  
When the Company decides that the workforce in any seniority unit  
is to be reduced, a member of the plant Grievance Committes, if  
115 .  
   
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
-—— me  
any, in that unit, shall, if the reduction in force continues to the point.  
at which he would otherwise be laid off, be retained at work, and for  
such hours per week as may be scheduled in the unil in which he  
is employed, provided he can perform the work on the Job lo which  
ha must be demoted. The intent of this provision is to retain in  
active employment the plani Grievance Committeemen for the  
purpose of continuity In the administration of tha labor contract in  
the interest of employees, so long as a worklorce is at work,  
provided thal no Grievance Committeeman shall be rétained in  
employment unless work which he can perform is available for him  
in the plant area which he represents on the Grievance Committee.  
This provision shall apply also io employees who hold any of the  
following olfices in the Local Union: President, Vice President.  
Section 11 Interpiant Job Opportunities.  
(A) Priority in the filling of job vacancies (other than temporary  
vacancies) at the Chicago and Riverdale Planta and  
covered by an agreement belween the Company and the  
Union shall be afforded employees at such  
plants in accordance with the following:  
1, Such priority shall be afforded to eligible employees  
who have applied for employment at the plant other  
than their home plant. Eligible employees are  
ihose who:  
(a) have two (2) or more years of Company  
continuous service at Ihe date of shuidown  
and who:  
(1) have elected not later than the end  
of thirty (30) days from the date of  
shutdown to continue on layoff;  
and  
116  
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
(2) cannot qualify for immediate  
pension and have not atiained the  
age of 60; and  
{3) have no employment and no recall  
fights to a job in their home plant  
as a resutt of a permanent  
shutdown of a plant, department,  
or subdivision thereof; and  
{4) have applied for employment  
hereunder: or  
(b) have two (2) or more years of Company  
conlinuous at ihe time of layotl  
trom their home plant and who:  
{1} in the opinion of the Management  
are not likely to be returned to  
active employment in their home  
plant within one (1) year from the  
date of layoff; and  
(2) cannot qualify for immediate  
pension and have not attained the  
age of 60; and  
(3) within thirty (30) days after being  
advised by the Management of  
such option, apply for employment  
hereunder.  
The job vacancies ior which employees shall be  
étigible under these provisions shall be only thase  
that aré not filled from the particular plan! in  
accordance with ihe foregoing Sections of this  
Article.  
197  
   
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
3. In filing such job vacancies hereunder, the  
following provisions shall be applicable:  
{a) An employee shall be given such priority  
only it he files with the Management of his  
home plant a written raquest for such  
employment at the other Such  
application shall be on a form provided by  
the Company.  
(b) Employees who thus apply may  
be given priority in the filing of job  
vacancies {other than temporary  
vacancies} over new hires after they have  
been continvously on layoff for sixty (60)  
days and shall be given such priority in the  
order of their Company continuous service  
(the earliest date of binh to control where  
such service is identical), in each case  
provided such employees have the  
necessary qualifications to perform the jab  
and ig advance in the promotional  
sequence involved, In determining the  
necessary qualifications to advance in the  
promotional sequence the normal  
experience acquired by employeas in such  
sequence shall be taken into consideration,  
It is recognized that there are  
circumstances under which it is impractical  
to alford such priority to an applicant  
because of the imminence of his recall to  
his home plant. In such a case, the  
Company shall not incur liability for failure  
to give priority to such applicant if the  
period does not exceed four (4) weeks,  
(c} An employee laid off from his home plant  
who is offared and who accepts a job al  
418  
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
   
ihe other plant in accordance with ihe  
foregoing provisions will have the same  
obligation to report for work thera as  
Ihough he were a laid off employee al tha!  
plant. During his employment at that plant,  
he will be subject to all the rules and  
conditions of employment in effect al thal  
plant. He will be considered as a now  
employee at that piant for alt purposes  
except that his plant continuous service for  
determining his seniority for purposes of  
promotion, decrease in force, or recalls  
after layoll ai that plant atter completion of  
his probationary period shall ba no less  
than his continuous employment ai that  
plant plus sity (60) days. At any time  
during the first sixty (60} days of his  
employment at that plant, ha may elact to  
terminata such employment without  
afleciing his continuous service al his  
home plant provided he gives reasonable  
notice to ptanl management and provided  
further that such an will aflect his  
right to further consideration under this  
Section 11 in the same manner as if he  
had rejected a job offer to him. If he is laid  
off from that plant, his continuous service  
at thal plant will be cancelled when he is  
recalled to his home ptant. If his home  
plant is closed permanently, his continuous  
service at his home plant will be cancelled  
and the plant to which ha was assigned  
will become his home plant, subject lo tha  
election provided in the following sentence.  
If his home plant is closed pemmanently or  
if his home plant department or substantial  
poriion ihereof is permanently  
discontinued, and the employee has less  
119  
+ ee es  
SS or ee ee ee ee  
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
(0)  
  
(f)  
     
\han two (2) years of continuous service for  
(ayotf purpases at the new plant and meals  
the eligibility requirements for severance  
allowance, he may within ninety (90)  
days of such closing or discontinuance to  
he assigned back fo his former home plant  
for the purpose of receiving severance pay  
and thus terminating his continuous service  
with the Company for all pumoses.  
if an employee rejects a job offer to him  
under these provisions, or if he does not  
respond within five (5) days of the time the  
offer is made, direcied to his last place of  
residence as shown on the written request  
referred to in Paragraph 3{a) above, his  
name shall be removed trom those eligible  
for priority hereunder, and he may  
thereafter apply, pursuant io Paragraph  
3(a), tor reinstatement after he Is recalled  
to active employment at his home plant  
and again laid off.  
An employee who accepts employment at  
the other plant under these provisions will  
continue to accmue continuous service for  
seniority purposes at his home plant in  
accordance with the applicable seniority  
rules until recallad to work at his home  
plant, in which event his continuous serice  
at ihe athar plant will be cancelled.  
When he has completed one (1) year of  
employment at that plant, his continuous  
service at his home plant will ba cancelled  
and the plant to which he was assigned  
will then become his hame plant.  
129  
ee, ee ia  
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
(6)  
{C)  
The oparation of this Section 1% will be subject 10 periodic  
review by a joint committee, consisting of equal numbers of  
fepresentatives of both parties (not more than three (3)  
each), who shail meet periodically to review the operation  
of this Section 11 and to consider and resolve any  
problems that may arise from its aperation. The Company  
$hail supply to such committee information relating  
to the operation of these provisions.  
The following procedure shall apply only to or  
relating to the application of this Section 11:  
1.  
Any employee who believes thal ha has a  
justifiable request or complaint shall promptly refer  
the matter to a Stafl Representative designaied by  
tha Union tor this purpose, wha in turn will promptly  
arrange to discuss the reques! or with  
the Company designated representative.  
lf not satistactorily resolved, the Union's designated  
Staff Representative may refer the matter ta the  
Company's Fourth Step representative certified to  
Ihe Union by the Company ta handle Fourth Step  
gnevances for tha home plant of the complaining  
employee, or if appropriate, the Fourth Step  
representative for the other plani invotved in the  
complaint. Such referral shail be made in writing  
within lan (10) days of completion of the final  
discussion pursuani to (1) above and shall set forth  
the Union's statement of fact, the action of the  
Company which the Union challenges, the clause  
or clauses of this Sectian 11 which are alleged to  
be violated, the relief sought, and the Union's  
position. The appealed grievance shall be handled  
in the regulary grievance procedure established  
under this Agreement starting at the Fourth Step.  
In order to facilitate the operation of the program  
121  
   
### ARTICLE XY¥I - SENIORITY  
Section 12  
(1)  
provided for in this Section 11, it is agreed that:  
{a} back pay shall not be awarded in any  
griévance based on these paragraphs  
unless the artitraior finds that there has  
been wilful and deliberate non-compliance  
therewith: and  
(b) the Company and the Intemational  
Union may, upon recommendation of the  
committee provided for in Paragraph C2  
above, amend this Section 11 at any tims  
during tha period of this Agreement and  
thal euch amendment shall be effective  
with respect to any pending grievance.  
The Company will noi be liable for any retroactive  
pay with respect to any period prior to four (4) days  
of ihe beginning of the payroll week, whichever is  
tater, after receipt by tha Company of specific  
written notice (on a form to be provided therefor) of  
its alleged error.  
By agreement between the Company and the  
Intemational Union, the provisions of this Section  
+1 may at any time be suspended and  
who are working at other than their home plant  
under these provisions may be taid of if it becomes  
necessary to do so to provide employment for long  
service employees who are permananily displaced  
or for other valid reasons.  
Manning of New Facilities.  
In the manning of jobs on new facilities in the plant, the  
jobs shalt be filled by qualifiad employees who apply for  
such jobs in the order of langth of service from the following  
categories in the fallowing order but subject to Paragraph  
t22  
### ARTICLE XVI - SENIORITY  
(2)  
(3)  
(2) below.  
{a) Employees displaced irom any facility being  
replaced in the plant by the new facilities.  
(b} Emptoyees being displaced as the rasult of the  
installation of the new facilities.  
{c} Employees presenily employed on jike facilities in  
the plant.  
(d} Empoyees presently on layoff from ijike facilities in  
tha plant.  
The local parties will meet, prior to manning the new  
equipment, io seek agreement on whether the length of  
service considered shall be plani service, division service or  
sectional service; and on the standards to be used to  
determine the qualifications eniiting employees oiherwise  
eligible to be assigned to ihe jobs in question.  
Should the local parties fail to agree on the standards for  
determining qualifications, Management shall have the right  
to require applicants to have the Necessary qualifications for  
performing the job, for absorbing such training as is to be  
offered and ice advancement in the promotional sequence  
to the extent necessary to assure efficient operation of the  
new facilities.  
Should Management deam it necessary to assign an  
employee to his regular job on the old facility in order fo  
continue its efficent operation, it may do so on the basis of  
establishing such employes on the new job and temporarily  
assigning him to his former job until a suitable replacement  
can be trained far the job or its performance is no tanger  
required. In such event, such employee shall be entitiad to  
not less than whai he would have made had he  
been working on the job on which he has been established.  
123  
. *  
   
= “' =  
2 -_.  
-  
### ARTICLE XVIII - SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN  
### AATICLE XViIt  
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN  
Section 1  
Description of Plan.  
The Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, effective  
September 1, 1999 (the Ptan), is contained In a booklet entitled  
### "1989 SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN,” a  
copy of which will be provided each employee. Such booklet  
constitules a part of this Section as though incorporated  
The 1989 Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan shall remain  
in effect during the term o! this Agreement.  
Section 2  
(A)  
(8)  
(C)  
Coverage.  
The Plan shall, for the period specified in the termination  
provisions of this Agreamant, be applicatle to the  
employees covered by this Agreemeni.  
The Plan, without change, may be applicable to such  
other groups of employees of the Company who are  
entited to overtima compensation on the basis of law,  
contract, or cusiom as were covered on August 31, 1989  
by the Prior Plan (the Supplemental Unempioyment  
Benofil Plan in prior lo September 1, 1989) and to  
any other such group, and under such conditlans as the  
Company and the Union may agree. Any modification of  
ihe Plan necessitated by the requirements of tedera! or  
stale law shall also apply to such other groups to which  
it ls applicable,  
There shall ba ane trust fund under the Plan applicable to  
all employees covered by the Plan, and any  
determinations under the Plan will be based on the  
with respect to everyone thereby.  
124  
   
### ARTICLE XVill - SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN  
Section 3 Reports to the Union.  
The Company will provide the Union with information on the forms  
agreed to by the parties and at the times indicated thereon, and  
such adglitional information as will reasonably be required far the  
purpose of enabling the Union to be properly conceming  
operations of the Plan,  
125  
———— ee we eee ae en: 5 —  
   
-- “Hk. er = — =  
   
### ARTICLE XIX - LOCAL WORKING CONDITIONS  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### LOCAL WORKING CONDITIONS  
The term “local working conditions,” as Used herein, means specific  
practices or customs which reflect deiailed application of ihe subject  
matter within tha scope o! wages, hours of work, or olher conditions of  
employment and includes locai agreements, written of oral, on suck  
matters. It is tecognized that it is impracticable to set forth in this  
Agreement all these working conditions, which are of a local nature only,  
or to state specifically in this Agreement which of these matters should be  
changed or eliminated. The following provisions provide general principles  
and procedures which explain the status of these matters and furnish  
necessary guideposts for the parties hereio and the arbitrator.  
(1) iis recognized that an employee does not have the right  
to hava a local working condition established, in any  
given situation or plant where such condition has not  
existed, during the term of this Agreement or fo have an  
existing working condition changed or eliminated,  
except io the extent necessary 10 require the application  
of a specific provision af this Agreement.  
(2) in no case shall local working conditions be effective to  
daprive any employee of tights under this Agreement,  
Should any employee believe that a local working  
condition is depriving him of the benefits of this  
he shall have recourse io the gnevance  
procedure and arbitration, if necessary, to requite that the  
local working condition be changed or to  
provide the established by this Agreement.  
{3} Should there ba any focal working conditions in  
which provide benefits that are in excess of or in addition  
to the benefits established by this Agreement, they shall  
remain in efiect for the term of this Agreement, as ©  
they are changed oF eliminated by mutual agreement or  
126  
### ARTICLE XIX - LOCAL WORKING CONDITIONS  
(4)  
{5}  
(6)  
(7)  
in accordance with Paragraph (4) below.  
The Company shalt have the right to change or eliminate  
any focal working condition if, as the result of action taken  
by Management under Articte Ill, Management, the basis  
for the existence of the local working condition is changed  
or eliminated, thereby making it unnecessary to continue  
such local working condition; provided, however, that  
when such a change or elimination is made by the  
Company, any affected employee shall have recourse to  
the complaint and grievance procadure and arbitration, if  
necessary, to have the Company justily its action.  
No focal working condition shall hereafter be established  
or agreed to which changes or modifies any of the  
provisions of this Agreement, except as it is approved in  
wiiting by the President of the Local Union and an  
International Officer of the Union and the Human  
Resources Executive of the Company.  
The of a grievance prior to arbitration under  
Ihis Article XIX shall not constitute a precedent in the  
setilament of grievances in other situations in this area.  
Each party shall, as a matier of policy, encourage the  
prompt setiiement of problems in this area by mutual  
agreement at the local fevel.  
127  
### ARTICLE XX - SUB AND INSURANCE GRIEVANCES  
### ARTICLE XX  
### SUB AND INSURANCE GRIEVANCES  
   
The procedure shall apply only to disputes conceming the  
Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan {SUB} and the Insurance  
Agreement, including ihe Program of Insurance (PIB), but it shall  
not apply to a claim for life insurance.  
lf any diflarence shall arise between the Company and any employee as  
to the banefits payable to him:  
(a) pursuant to the SUB, or  
{b} pursuant fo the Insurance Agreement (including PIB)  
because his claim was denied in whole or in part, or  
between the Company and the Union as to the  
of application of or compliance with the  
provisions of the SUG and such diflerence is not resolved  
by discussion with a representative of the Company at the  
location where it arises, it shall, if presented in writing  
under the foliowing provisions, become a SUB grievance  
or an Insurance grievance {in either case hereinaler  
referred to as grievance), and It shall be disposed of in  
ihe manner described below:  
(1) A grievance must, in order to be considered, be  
presented in writing in Step 3 within 30 days aiter  
ihe action giving tise to such difference on a  
Form which shal be dated  
and signed by the employee involved and the  
representative dasignated by the Lacal Union to  
handle such and presented to a focal  
representative of the Company designated to  
receve and handle such grievances. The  
grisvance shall be discussed by such  
representatives within 10 days aller it has been  
1268  
### ARTICLE XX - SUB AND INSURANCE GRIEVANCES  
{2}  
presented to the representative of the Company.  
Siep 3 minutes of any discussion between the  
Union and the Company shall be prepared and  
signed by the local representative of the  
Company within 10 days after the discussion is  
held and é¢hat! be signed by the representative of  
the Local Union. lf the representative of tha  
Local Union shall disagree with the accuracy ol  
the minutes as prepared by the Company, he  
shall set forth and sign hig reasons for such  
disagreement and the minutes, except for such  
disagreement, shall be regarded as agreed to.  
Unless ihe grievance is appealed ag set forth  
below within 10 days after the daie of delivery of  
the mirwtes to the of the Local  
Union, it shalt be deemed to have bean settled  
and no appeal therefrom shall thereafter be  
taken, Notwithstanding the first sentence of this  
paragraph, (a} a grievance refating to Short Week  
Bensiiis under the SUB must ba presented within  
30 days alters the date of the Shon Week Benefit  
draft it the dispute relates to (he amount of the  
benefit or within 60 days from the end aft the  
week in question i the dispute relaies to eligibility  
for tha benefit, and (6) a gnevance relating to the  
Insurance Agreement (inctuding PIB) must be  
presented within 30 days after the earliest dale  
on which the grievant knew or reasonably should  
have known of the action on which it is based,  
For ihe purpose of processing grievances under  
this Article, ihe "representative designated by the  
Union’ shall be the Union Chairman of the SUB  
and insurance Comm»nittee.  
tn order ior a grievance to be considered further,  
writtan notice of appeal shall be served, within 10  
days after receipt of the minutes described  
129  
### ARTICLE XX - SUB AND INSURANCE GRIEVANCES  
(3)  
above, by tha representative of ihe District  
Diractor of the Union, certified to the Company in  
wrilig, upon the representative of ihe Company,  
similarly certilied to the Union by the Company.  
Such notice shall siate the subject matier of the  
grievance, the identifying number, and objections  
iaken to the @ravious disposition. A grievance  
which has been so appealed shall be discussed  
within 30 days of such notice by such  
sepresentalives, in an elton to dispose of the  
grievance. Minutes of the discussion, which shall  
include a statement of the disposition of the  
gnevance by the of lhe Company,  
his reasons therefor, and the date thereof, shall  
be prepared and signed by him and delivered to  
the representalive of tha Union within 10 days  
after the discussion is heid, The representative  
of the Union shall sign such minutes and shall  
deliver a copy to the representativa of the  
Company, and in ihe event he shall disagree with  
the accuracy of the minutes as prepared by the  
Company, he shall set forth and sign his reasons  
for Such disagreement and the minutes, except  
for such disagreement, shall be regarded as  
agreed to. If an appeal from the action taken  
with regard to ihe grievance in accordance with  
ihe foregoing procedure fs not made in the  
manner set forth below, the grievance shail be  
deamed to have been settled in accordance wiih  
such action and no appeal therelrom shall  
be taken.  
Ifthe procadure described in Paragraphs (1) and  
{2) above has been fallowed with respect to a  
grievance and it has not been seltied, it may be  
by the District Director, or his  
feprasentative, to arbitration by written naticg to  
the certified of the Company  
130  
   
### ARTICLE XX - SUB AND INSURANCE GRIEVANCES  
(4)  
described in Paragraph (2) above within 20 days  
after the date of delivery of the minuies to the  
representative of the Union.  
The decision of the Arbitrator on any grievance  
which has properly been referred to him shall be  
final and binding upon the Company, tha Union,  
and all employees involved in the  
131  
   
### ARTICLE XXi - PRIOR AGREEMENTS  
### ARTICLE Xxi  
### PRIOR AGREEMENTS  
The terms and conditions established by this Agreement replace those  
established by the Agreament of September 1, 1992, effective as of  
September 1, 1993, as otherwise expressty provided in this  
Agreameni.  
Any complaint or grievance, which as of the effective date of this  
Agreement has been presented in writing and is in the process of  
adjustment under the complaint and grievance procedure af ine  
Agreement of September 1, 1992, may be continued to be processed  
the complaint and grievance procedure of this Agreement and  
$attiled in accordance wilh ihe applicable provisions of the applicabie prior  
Agreement for the period prior lo the effective dale of this Agreement and  
for any period Iheraatter in accordance with the applicable provisions of  
this Agreement.  
Any complaint of grievance filed on or alter the eflactive date of this  
Agreemen! which is based on the occurrence or non-dccurrence of an  
event which arose prior to the effective date of this Aqreemant must be a  
proper subject for a complaint or grievance under this Agreement and  
processed in accordance-with the complaint and grievance procedure of  
this Agreement. Such complaint or grievance shall be settled In  
accordance with the provisions of the Agreement ol Sepiember  
1, 1992, for the period prior to the date of this Agreament, and  
for any period ihereatter In wilh the applicable provisions of  
this Agreement.  
132  
### ARTICLE XXit - TERMINATION DATE  
### ARTICLE XXil  
### TERMINATION DATE  
Except as otherwise provided below, this Agreement shalt terminate at the  
expiration of 60 days after either party shall give writen notice of  
termination to the other party bul in any event shall nat terminate earlier  
than Kees 31, 1999 (11:59 P.M.}.  
### D  
if either party gives such notice, it may include therein notice of its dasire  
to negotiate with respect io Insurance, Pensions, and Supplemental  
Unemployment Benelits {existing provisions or agreements as to  
Insurance, Pensions, and Supplemental Unemployment Benefits to the  
contrary notwithstanding), and the partias shall meet within 30 days  
thereafter to nagaliate with raspect to such matters. If the parlies shati not  
agree with respect to such matters by the end of 60 days after the giving  
of such notice, either party may thereafter resort ta strike,or lockout as the  
case may ba in support of its position in respect to such matters as well  
as any other matter in dispute (the existing agreaments or provisions with  
respeci to Insurance, Pensions, and Supplemental Unemptoyment  
Benefits to the contrary notwithstanding}.  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, of the termination  
of any or afl portions hereof, the Supplemental Unemployment  
Banefit Plan shail remain in effect until expiration of 120 days after writien  
notice of termination is served by either panty on the other parly on or  
after September 3, 1999.  
3, 4008.  
Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be given by registered  
mail; be completed by and at the time of mailing; and, if by tha Company,  
be addressed to the United Steetworkers of America, Five Gateway  
Center, Pittsburgh, 15222, if by the Union, to the Company  
at 13500 South Perry Avenue, Riverdale, Illinois 60627. party may,  
by like writien notice, change the address to which mail notice  
to it shall be given.  
133  
=  
  
Lynn Fi. Williams  
Edgar L. Ball  
George Becker  
Leon Lynch  
   
Jack Paston  
   
Tom Conway  
   
Bill Andrews  
   
Jerry Bugg  
   
Tom Eagan  
   
Larry Lydon  
### UNITED STEEL WORKERS OF AMERICA ACME STEEL COMPANY  
### AIVEROALE PLANT  
### ACME PACKAGING  
### CORPORATION  
### RIVERDALE PLANT  
By  
Richard J. Stefan  
Joseph A. DiMauro  
Gerald J. Shope  
JosephP.Oula  
Anthony M. Kuchta  
Juan J. Aguirre  
Charles Tucker  
A.J, Wamer  
Joseph Grippando  
135  
  
Ce el  
  
### APPENDIX A  
### APPENDIX A  
### NON-INCENTIVE JOBS  
The standard hourly wage scale of ralés for non-incenirve jobs shall be as  
  
Job Effectiva Effective  
Class September 1, 1993 September 1, 1995  
1-2 12,245 12,745  
3 12.392 12,892  
4 42.439 13.039  
5 12.686 13.186  
6 12.833 13.333  
7 12.980 13.480  
8 13.4127 13.627  
9 , 13.274 13,774  
10 13.421 13.921  
11 13,568 14,068  
12 13.715 14.215  
13 13.862 14.362  
14 14.009 44.509  
15 14.156 14.656  
16 14.303 14.803  
7 14.450 14,950  
18 . 14,597  
19 14,744 15,244  
20 14.891 15.391  
21 15,038 15,538  
22 15.185 15.685  
23 15.332 15.832  
24 15,479 15.979  
25 15626 16.126  
136  
### APPENDIX A  
Job  
Class  
26  
27  
28  
29  
0  
34  
32  
33  
34  
(1) the general wage increase effective September 1,  
1995  
Effective  
September 1, 1983  
15.773  
16.820  
16.067  
16.214  
16.361  
16.508  
16.655  
16.802  
16.949  
137  
   
Effective  
September 1, 1995‘  
16,273  
18,420  
16.567  
16.714  
16,861  
17,008  
17.158  
17,302  
17.449  
   
“= —_ «  
### APPENDIX A-1  
### APPENDIX A-1  
### WAGES - INCENTIVE JOSS  
### {ICR, HOURLY ADDITIVE)  
Effective September 1, 1993  
Standard Hourly  
Wage Scale  
Job {incentive Hourly  
Class Calculation Rate) Additive  
1-2 5.200 7.045  
3 §.309 7.083  
4 5.418 7.121  
5 §.527 7.159  
6 5.636 7.197  
7 7.235  
8 5.854 7.273  
9 5.963 7.311  
10 6.072 7.349  
6.181 7.307  
12 6.290 7.425  
13 6.399 7.463  
14 7.501  
15 6.617 7.539  
16 6.726 7.577  
17 6.835 7,515  
18 6.944 7,653  
19 7.083 7,691  
20 7.162 7.729  
21 7,271 7.787  
22 7.380 7.805  
23 7.489 7.843  
138  
### APPENDIX A-1  
Job  
Class  
24  
26  
27  
28  
31  
32  
33  
34  
Standard Hourly  
Wage Scale  
(incentive  
Calculation Rate)  
7.598  
7.707  
7.816  
7,825  
8.034  
8.143  
8.252  
8.361  
8.470  
8.579  
8.688  
149  
   
Hourly  
Additive  
7.88%  
7.919  
7.957  
7.995  
8.033  
8.071  
8,109  
§.147  
8.185  
8.223  
8.261  
- —_  
### APPENDIX A-1  
### APPENDIX A-1  
### WAGES - INCENTIVE JOSS  
### {ICR, HOURLY ADDITIVE}  
Effective September 1, 1995  
Standard Hourly  
Wage Scale  
Jab (incentive Hourly  
Claas Calculation Rats} Additive  
1-2 5.200 7.545  
3 §.309 7.583  
4 5.418 7.621  
5 5.527 7.659  
6 §.636 7.697  
7 5.745 7.735  
8 5,854 Vaid  
9 §.963 7,811  
10 6.072 7.849  
11 6.181 7,887  
12 6.290 7.925  
13 6.399 7.963  
14 6.503 8.004  
15 6.617 8.039  
16 6.726 8.077  
17 6.835 8.115  
18 6.944 6.153  
19 7.053 6.191  
20 7.162 8.229  
21 7.271 8.267  
22 7.380 8.305  
### APPENDIX A-1  
Job  
Clase  
24  
26  
27  
25  
29  
31  
33  
Standard Hourly  
Wage Scale  
(Incentive  
Caiculation Rate  
7,489  
7.598  
7.707  
7.816  
7.925  
9.034  
8.143  
8.252  
8.361  
8.470  
8.579  
8.688  
   
Hourty  
Additive ™!  
$.343  
8,381  
8.419  
8.457  
8.495  
8533  
8.571  
8.600  
8.647  
8.685  
8.723  
8.761  
{1) Reflects the $.50/hour general wage increase  
7, 1995.  
141  
### APPENDIX A-2  
   
— NE ee eh  
### APPENDIX A-2  
### INFLATION RECOGNITION PAYMENT  
A. For purposes of this Agreement:  
1.  
“Consumer Price index” refers to the “Consumer Price  
index” for Urhan Wage Eamers and Clerical Workers  
United States-All Items (1962-84 equals 100}  
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States  
Department of Labor.  
The “Consumer Price Index Base” shall be as  
follows:  
a. For the September 1, 1993; December 1, 1893;  
March 1, 1994; and June 1984, Adjusiment  
Dates, tha Consumer Price Index Base refers to ihs  
Cansumer Price index for the monih of April 1993,  
muttiplied by 103%.  
b. For the September 1, 1994; December 1, ted;  
March 1, 1995; and June f, 1995, Adjustment  
Dates, the Consumer Price Index Base to the  
Cansumer Price Index for the month of April 1994,  
multipiied by 103%. -  
For the September 1, 1995; December 1895;  
March 1, 1996; and June ft, 1996, Adiustmen!  
Dates, the Consumer Price Index Base ta the  
Consumer Price Index for the month of April 1995,  
by 103%.  
d. For the 1, 1996; December f, 1996;  
March 1, 1997: and June 1, 1897, Adjustment  
142  
### APPENDIX A-2  
6,  
   
Dates, the Consumer Frice index Base refers to  
the Cansumer Price Index for the month of April  
1996, multiplied by 103%.  
e. For the Septarnber 1, 1997; December 1, 1997;  
March 1, 1998; and June 4, Adjustment  
Dates, tha Consumer Price Index Base refers to  
the Consumer Price Index for tha month of April  
1997, mulliptied by 103%.  
f. For the September 1, 1998; December 1, 1994:  
March ¢, 1999; and June 1, 1999, Adiusiment  
Dates, the Consumer Price Index Sase raters to  
ihe Consumer Price Index for tha month of April  
1998, muttinlied by 103%.  
Adjustment Dates are September 1, 1993; December t,  
1993; March 1, 1994; June 1, 1994; September 1, 1994;  
December 1, 1994; March 1, 1995; June 1, 1995;  
September 1, 1995; December t, 1995; March 1, 1996;  
June 1, 1996; Sepiember 1, 1996; December 1, 1996;  
March 7, 1997; June 1, 1997; September 1, 1997;  
December 1, 1997; March 1, 1998; June 1, 1998;  
September 1, 1998; December 1, 1998; March 1, 1999;  
and June 1, 1999.  
"Increase in ihe C.P.) over tha Base" shall be defined as  
the change between (i) the Consumer Price Index Base  
and {il} the Consumer Price Index for the second  
calendar month next greceding the momh in which the  
applicable Adjustment Date fails.  
"Inflation Recognition Payment" is calculated as below  
ant will be payable for the period  
cammencing with the Adjustment Data.  
Effective on each Adjustment Dale a payment shall be eamed  
equal 10 ane percent (1.0%) of the Standard Hourly Wage Rates  
143  
   
### APPENDIX A-2  
(SHWR)} for each full one percent (1.0%) increase in the C.P,I.  
over the Base.  
1. The earned payment shall be determined by multiplying  
ihe parcent delermined in (B} above by the Standard  
Hourly Wage Rate for each position worked by an  
employee for all hours actually worked, overtime  
allowance hours, and for any allowance hours  
credited bafore ihe Adjustment Date. The Inilation  
Racognition Payment earned, il any, between Adjustment  
Dates will be paid promptly once each quarter by  
separaia check.  
2. In calculating the payment for any Sepiember 1,  
December 1, March 1, and June 1 Adjustment Date, there  
shail be added to the percent calculated in (B) above Ihe  
percent used to calculate the Inflation Recognition  
Payment, if any, which was payable on Ihe June 1  
Adjustment Date ol the prior year.  
The Inflation Recognition Payment shall be an “add-on" and shall  
not be part of the employee's Slandard Hourly Wage Scale Rate.  
Such Payment shall be payable only for hours actually worked,  
overtime allowance hours, and for reporting allowance hours Dut  
shall not be part of the employee's pay for any other purpose and  
- ghall not be used in ihe calculation of any other pay, allowance,  
or benefit.  
Should the Consumer Price index, in ils present form and on the  
same hasis (including composition of the “Market Baskel" and  
Consumer Sample) as the prior to June 1,  
1993, become unavallable, tha parties shall aflempt to adjust this  
Agreement or, if agreement is not reached, raquest the Bureau of  
Labor Statistics to provide thea appropriate conversion or  
adjustment which shall be applicable as of the appropnate  
Adjustment Date and thereafter. The purpose of such canversion  
shall be to as nearly as possible the same result as  
would have been achieved using the Index in its present lorm.  
144  
   
### APPENDIX A-3  
### APPENDIX A-3  
### SPECIAL PAYMENT CONDITIONED ON PROFITABILITY  
Augusi 31, 1993  
Jack Parton, Director  
District 31, USWA  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
Room 211  
East Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
This letter will confim our understanding reached during negotiations  
regarding a special payment based on the profitability of the Company  
(Acme Stee! Company, and Acme Packaging Corporation's Alverdate, Ill.  
operations). This spacial payment will be made in the event that a final  
decision is made to go torward wilh a new slab caster/hot strip mill facility  
and the pre-tax, pre-special payment! income of the Company lor 1995 is  
$22.5 million or more and, i} made, shall be paid on the first pay day after  
Aprit 1, 1996. it being thal expenses of retiree heatth  
programs shall be restated ulilizing accounting methods used by the  
Company prior to the etfiective date of adopting FAS No. 106. Such  
payment will be made to an employee on the basis of $.50 per hour  
worked, paid hours of vacation, paid holidays not worked and any hours  
paid by the Company for Union business, to a maximum total of 2000  
hours per employee during 1995 ($1000 maximum payment}. Additionally,  
it is the understanding of ihe parties thal any such paymenl(s) shall not  
be considered eamings for any other purpose, except as subject to  
applicable staiutory taxes on income and are subject to the provisions  
ragarding Union dues under the Basic Labor Agreements between parties,  
145  
   
   
and no part of such obligation shail be included in the regular rate of any  
employee.  
Very truly yours,  
For the Company:  
G. J. Shope  
Vice President-  
Human Resources  
### CONFIRMED:  
Jack Parton, Ditectar  
Negotiating Committee  
Stestworkers of America  
146  
   
### APPENDIX A-¢  
### APPENDIX A-4  
### SIGNING BONUS AND LUMP SUM BONUSES  
Signing Bonus  
On the first pay day after October 1, 1993, each active employes,  
8s of August 31, 1993, af employee whe fs accruing continuous  
service for pension purposes on the effeciive date of the  
Agreement, wilt be paid cash payment of $500.00. Additionally , i  
is the understanding of the parties that such paymant(s) shail not  
be considered aamings for any other purposes, except as subject  
to applicable sialutory taxes on income and are subject to the  
provisions Union dues under the Basic Labor  
Agreemenis betwaen ihe parliag, and no part of such obligation  
Shalt be included in the regular rate of any employee.  
Lump Sum Bonus  
A. On the first pay day after Apri 1, 1994, each active  
employee 2a of March 31, 1994 will be paid cash  
payment of $500.00. Additionally, it is the understanding  
of tha parties that any such paymeni(s} shalt nat be  
considered eamings for any other purposes, except as  
subject to applicable statutory taxes on income and are  
subject to the provisions regarding Union duas under the  
Basic Labor Agreemants between the parties, and no part  
of such obligation shail be Included in the rate of  
ary employes.  
9. On the first day after September 1, 1894, each active  
amployes as of August 31, 1894 wilt be paid a cash  
payment of $500.60. Additionally, it is the understanding  
of the parties that such payment(s) shalt not be  
147  
   
corisidgred eamings for any other purposes, except as  
subject lo statutory taxas an income and are  
subject to the provisions regarding Union duss under the  
Basic Labor Agreements between the parties, and no pari  
of such obligation shail be included in the regutar rata of  
any employes,  
On the first pay day after April 1, 1995, each active  
employee as of March 31, 1995 will be paid a cash  
payment of $500.00. Additionally, it is the undersianding  
of the pariies that any payment(s) shall not be  
considered eamings for any other purposes, except as  
subject to applicable stalutory taxes on income and are  
subject to the provisions regarding Union dues under the  
Basic Labor Agreements between ihe pariles, and no part  
of such obligation shall be inciuded in the regular rate of  
any employes.  
148  
   
### APPENDIX B  
### APPENDIX B  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDINGS  
### .ON MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS  
The understandings in the prior Supplemental  
Agreement conceming so-called portal-to-portal daims are  
readopted for the tearm of the new Bagic Labor Agreement.  
The proposaia made by each party with respect fo changes in  
the Basic Labor Agreements and the discussions had with  
respect thereto shall not be used, or to, in any way  
during of in connection with the arbitraten of any grievance  
aitsing under the provisions of the Basic Labor Agreement.  
When practicable, the beginning of each week of vacation for an  
employee shall be scheduled to coincide with the beginning of  
the payroll week appticable to ihe emptoyes.  
449  
| |  
### APPENDIX C  
### APPENDIX C  
### NON-NCENTIVE BONUS  
An employee with 5 or more years of service, as determined  
for pansion purposes, shall be paid a $.10 per hour bonus for hours  
worked on a non-incentive job. Such bonus shall be an “add-on,” shall  
be payable only for hours actually worked, and shall be included in the  
calculation of overtime premium but shall not be part of the  
pay for any other purpose and shall not be used in the calculation of any  
other pay, allowance, or benefil. For the purpose of apptying this  
provision, a non-incentive job Is a job within the scope of the August 1,  
1969 Incentive Arbitration Award that is not covered by an incentive and  
does not qualify for incentive under the terms of such Award. If,  
however, the Company elects to provide incentive coverage for a non-  
incentive job, payment of the foregoing bonus for hours worked on such  
job will be discontinued at that time.  
130  
   
### APPENDIX D  
### APPENDIX D  
During the period of the 1968 Labor Agreement, the parties  
agreed to the following:  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### CONCERNING INCENTIVE ARBITRATION AWARD  
The Riverdale Piant of the Acme Stee! Company and the United  
Stestworkers of America hereby agree as follows:  
1  
Appendix O of the Labor Agreement dated August 1, 1964, is  
voided and replaced in its entirety by the attached Appendix D  
(Revised).  
The August 1, 19569 Incentive Arbitration Award ol the  
Arbitration Panel salating to issues arising under Appendix J of  
ine July 30, 1968 Settlement Agrasment betwesn the Efeyen  
Coordinaling Steel Companies and the Uniled  
Steelworkers of America, hereinafier refered to as the  
“Award,” is hereby made an appendix to the parties’ Labor  
Agreement and will be applicable to the “Slael Producing  
Operations” covered by that Labor Agreement; provided that  
the date appearing in Part A-4-a of the Award for the  
Company’s submission to the Union shall be January 2, 1970,  
rather than November 4, 1969. Such appendix shalt be  
separately printed.  
In administering the provisions of Parts A-4-c and A-4-d of the  
Award, there shall be one Joint Incentive for the  
Riverdale Plant.  
The size and compositian of such commitise shall be  
determined by the Chairman of the Company’s and Union's  
Negotiating Commitlees, who shalt co-chair the Joint Incentive  
Committes, The Joint Incentive Committee shall have the  
authority to resolve all disputes conceming coverage under the  
151  
* r = = = ~ _-  
### APPENDIX D  
Award al the Riverdale Plant. [n the event that the Joint  
Incentive Committee is unable to resolve any dispute or  
disputes, either the Company or Union Chairman of such  
committes may refer such unresolved dispute or disputes to  
arbitralion in accordance with Parl A-4-6. Unless the parties  
otherwise agree, the arbitrator shalt be the  
arbitrator for the Company or, In the absence of a permanent  
arbitrator, a single arbitrator selected for that purpose.  
4, The Company and the Union preserve all provisions of their  
current Labor Agreement. However, to the extent that any  
such provision confilcis with a specific provision of the Award  
or this Memorandum of Understanding, the Award or this  
Memorandum shall supersede such provision in such respact.  
5. The Joint Incentive Committee will mest on or about March 715,  
1970, to discuss procedures regarding the implementation of  
Pari D af the Award.  
6 Ten cents (10¢} per hour, in the manner provided for in the  
atlached Appendix O (Revised), wilt apply to hours worked on  
a job thal became newly covered by an incentive  
installed afier August 1, 1968, which incentive is an existing  
incentive on August 1, 1969, for the pariod from Augusi 1,  
1968, until the date such incentive was applied fo such job.  
Dated: October 27, 1969  
   
### APPENDIX D (REVISED)  
### APPENDIX 0 (REVISED)  
### INCENTIVE STUDY  
The eleven Coordinated Stee! Companias and the Union have agreed to:  
“Establish a joint incentive group composed of 3 Union  
representatives and 3 representatives of the Companies to study the  
_ wage incantive situation in the production and maintenance units of  
the stesl producing operalians, such study tc be  
completed by August 1, 1969 and to develop and recommend to the  
parties guides with respect to:  
a. Types of jobs: (1) properly subject to coverage by direct  
measurement incentives, indirect incentives, or oiher  
incentives: and {2} not property subject to incentive coverage.  
b. The of equitable incentive earning opportunities.  
c. The adjustment of incentive standards from time to time so  
that such standards are properly maintained,  
d. Procedures to be employed afler August 1, 1969, for  
appticalion of guides recommended with respect to paragraphs  
a, b, and ¢ above to the then existing incentive situation in  
each company. Such procedures shal include the  
requirement ihat incentive earnings shall be adjusted to  
conform to such guides.  
When a datermination has been made by the joint incentive study  
group or by the Arbitration Panel referred to below that an incentive  
is 0 be apptied to a job not theretofare on incentive, each employee  
who has worked on such jab in 2 of more pay periods beiwean  
August 1, 1968 and the date when such job is covered by incentive  
shall be paid 10 cents lor each hour which he has worked on such  
job commencing August 1, 1968 and continuing until an incentive has  
153  
APPENDIX D (Revised)  
been applied to the job.  
Any dispute arising under a,b,c, or d above which the joint incentive  
study group is unable to resolve shall be submitted for arbitration to  
@ panel of threa arbitrators lo be selected before October 1, 1964 by  
agreement of the Companies and the Unian."  
The Company and the Union agree {o be hound by the conclusions  
af the joint incentive study group and the decisions of the arbitrator  
panel and to apply tha retroactive pay provisions sel forth in the  
above quoted agreement.  
it is agreed that the above Memorandum of Understanding  
concerning incentive Arbitration Award shall be continued in effect  
for the duration of the August 1, 1971 Basic Labor Agreement.  
Further, the Company and Union agree that no change will be made  
In existing incantives pursuant to Section D.2 of the Incentive  
Arbitration Award dated August 1, 1969 excep by their mutual  
agreement or in accordance with an arbitration award governing this  
subject matter batween the Union and Uniled States Steel  
Corporation.  
154  
   
### APPENDIX D-1  
### APPENDIX D-?  
### LETTER AGREEMENT REGARDING INCENTIVES  
Mr, Paul Markonni  
Staff Representative  
United Steelworkers of America  
956 W. 175th Street  
Homewood, Wines 60490  
Dear Mr. Markonni:  
This ‘etter wit! serve to contirm the following understanding with respect fo  
incentive coverage for new and changed jobs covered by the August 1,  
1969 Incentive Award.  
Where a new job is established or an existing job is changed or has bean  
changed {0 the extent that it meets the Guides for incentive Coverage in  
Part A of the August 1, 1969 Incentive Arbitvation Award, incentive  
coverage shall be provided lor such job in accordance with Guides for  
Equitable incentive Eamings Opportunities in Part B of the Award. Such  
incentive shail be installed and become effective at the earliest practicable  
data.  
Vary truly yours,  
R.J. Stefan SN  
Vice President - Employee Relations \\  
### CONFIRMED: &.  
Paul Markonni a  
Siafl Representative  
United Steelworkers of America  
55  
. — =  
   
—_  
### APPENDIX E  
Fe  
### APPENDIX E  
### APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
Objectives of Apprenticeship Training, The objective of  
apprenticeship training is:  
fa} To provide a full and fair for achievement of full  
cralt siatus to interested and quatifiad employees of the  
Company, and  
(b} To provide the Company with quabfied craft persannel.  
Crafts - Tralning Periods - Job Classes. The crafts  
involved, the training periods, and the job classes therefor aro  
set forth in the Basic Labor Agreement. The Company may  
provide methods for advancements to craft status other than  
through the apprenticeship program.  
Posting and Filling Apprenticeship Vacancies. Apprenticeship  
vacancies shall be filled in accordance with the selection  
procedures sel forth in the “Riverdale Plant Apprenticeship  
Program* {unless revised by mutual agreement of the parties).  
lant continuous service shall be the measure af the seniority  
r “continuous service’ used when applying that seniority  
ihe selection process. Apprenticeship vacancies shall  
@ pasted on a plantwide basis ("at the plant gate") for a  
ofihree working days (excluding Saturday, Sunday and  
nf  
The parties ag Sf. Ps ihe purpose of an apprenticeship training  
program is to “train and qualify individuals to perform the  
of a given crafl and that an appticant ior  
apprenticeship must have the ability to absorb the appropriate  
166  
   
### APPENDIX E  
training.  
Craft Status. Fach apprentice, upon satisfactory completion of  
ihe apprenticeship program in which he is enrolled, shall here-  
alter be assigned to craft status and rale in accordance with  
Section Vi-A-2 of the August 1, 1971 Manual and the provisions  
ol the Basic Lahor Knowledge and on-the-job  
performance testing lor ihe purposes of such assignment or  
subsequent advancement to the intermediate or standard rate  
shall not exceed the subject matter and skills for which on-the-  
job or other training is afforded by the applicabla Apprenticeship  
Training Program.  
The Piant Apprenticeship Program” is hereby made  
part of this Appendix € as though incorporated herein.  
157  
### APPENDIX F  
### APPENDIX F  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### EMPLOYEE HOURS OF PAY GUARANTEE  
Mr. Jack Parton, Directar  
Disirict 31, USWA  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
Room 211  
East Chicago, In 46312  
Dear Mr.  
This will confirrn our understanding that, for the term of the 1999 Basic  
Labor Agreements, a trade and craft employee working on a trade and  
ctaft job, as defined in the CWS Manual, shall be guaranteed 40 hours of  
pay per week at his SHWR so long as there are crak employees of  
contractors working in ihe plant on the same trade and craft funciions and  
duties which would othenvise be performed by ihe employees for whom  
ihe guarantee is provided. This guarantee shall apply only to those trade  
and cralt plani employees who receive less than 40 hours of pay in a  
week or who are on layoff and would otherwise perform the work so hong  
as they are available for work.  
The 40-hour guarantee provided by the preceding paragraph shall be  
extended to tirade and crafi helpers and to employees occupying  
mainienance jobs in Job Class 6 and above who would  
otherwise have been assigned to work with the trade and craft  
for thosa hours to which the 40-hour guarantee is applicable under the  
preceding paragraph.  
An employae to whom the foregoing guarantee is applicable may ba  
assigned to periorm work in his crafi, or in the case of other employees,  
to a job in the same job class or higher than the job to which the  
guarantee ig applied at any location throughout the plant irrespective of  
158  
=m.  
   
### APPENDIX F  
seniority unit tules or practices. An employee who elects nol to accept  
such an assignment shall not be eligible for the guarantees provided  
herein.  
The number of employees protected by this guarantee shall not exceed  
the lesser of the number of contractor employees of similar skill and job  
content or, altemately, exceed the number of plant trade and craft  
employees and éligible maintenance non-crait employees who Bre working  
lass than 40 hours pilus the number who are on layoft. The recipients and  
distribution shall ba determined by tha tocal parties. Such guarantee shall  
not be applicable with respect to outside contractors’ employees working  
in the plant on mew construction, inchiding major installation, major  
replacement, and major reconstruction of equipment and productive  
facilities.  
Any practice or local working condition requiring Management to reireve  
work which has been contracted out shall be waived for the duration of  
this Agreement.  
Notwithstanding the foregsing, nothing in this guarantee shall prevent  
Management from atrieving contracted out work,  
Very truly yours,  
A. J. Stefan  
Vice President - Employee Relations  
### CONFIRMED:  
Jack Parton  
Director - District 31  
United Steehvorkers o} America  
159  
### APPE  
### NDIX G  
### APPENDIX G  
### INCENTIVE CHECK LIST  
The Incentive Check List referred to in Aricle XIV, Section 4 of the Basic  
Labor  
1.  
Agresment is set out below:  
tn order to assist the parties in fact development and to came to  
grips in the grievance procedure on matters relating to incentive  
issues, this Incentive Check Lisi has been prepared to serve as a  
gulds jor the parties in discussing and developing incentive cases  
through the grievance procedure and arbitration. It is Important  
that the information developed trom this list be embodied In Step 3  
Minutes, except as other facta may be brought out In Step 4 and  
answered at that lavel.  
The Check List covers the following major incentive items:  
A claim that a new incentive installed pursuant to Article XIV,  
Subsection 4(A) fails to provide incentive  
compensation.  
2. Adciaim that a changed condition warranted or did not warrant  
an adjustmen! or that the adjustment under Article XIV,  
Subsectian failed to preserve the integrity of the  
incentive.  
3.  Aclaim that a changed condition required or did not require a  
replacement under Article XIV, Subsection 4(8)(b) or that the  
failad to mest the earings requirement of Article  
### XIV, Subsection 4{D}.  
A claim that a specified provision of an existing incentive was  
misapplied,  
166  
   
### APPENDIX G  
During the gnevance procedure, the foligwing information should be  
provided:  
A, Brief description of incentive application involved including:  
1.  
2.  
te  
Date insiallad.  
of operation and crew covered.  
Type of incentive.  
Period of calculation.  
Summary of pertinent changes.  
Brief description of application prior to and afler disputed  
adjustment or whan applicable.  
Date of disputed adjustment of replacement, whan  
B. Performance history by pay period in terms of measured and pay  
performance far:  
1.  
a.  
Period trom date of installation to present date in case of new  
incentive of replacemeni.  
Representative period before and after change or alleged  
change of conditions involving adjustment or replacement.  
Three months immediately preceding ihe affective cancellation  
date of replaced incentive where earnings are opie under  
Article XIV, Subsection 4(0}.  
Period in dispute and lor representative period before and  
after where misapplication of existing incentive is alleged.  
In the event the grievance involves changed or alleged changed  
conditions under an existing incentive, the additional  
161  
### APPENDIX G  
D.  
information should be provided:  
1. Precise Union and Company statement of the changes or  
alleged change relied upon.  
2. Date(s) that change or alleged change took place.  
In the event of an alleged misapplication of a provision of an existing  
incentive plan, thea Union should also identify and describe the  
specitic incentive provisioni(s) it claims were or should  
have been applied, To the extent iniormation is available, the Union  
should indicate spacilic Instances of misapplication, such as dates,  
lurns, pay periods, crews, or employees involved, eic., so that the  
Company rapreseniatives can reasonably identify the instance(s)  
protested.  
A stalement and full explanation of position fram both the Company  
and the Union should be provided, inctuding the precise contractual  
provision or provisions relied upon,  
lt will b6 incumbent upon tha Company to submit a copy of the  
involved incentive as an exhibst to its bref.  
162  
   
### APPENDIX H  
### APPENDIX H  
### LABOA-MANAGEMENT PARTICIPATION TEAMS (LMPT) AGREEMENT  
The strength and effectiveness of an industrial enterprise in a democratic  
society require a cooperative effort between labor and management at  
several leveis of interaction. The parties hereto recognize that it  
steshvorkers are to continue amriong the bes! compensated employees in  
the industrial workd, and if sleel companies are to meet intemational  
competition, the parties must pursue their joint objectives with renewed  
dedication, initiative, and cooperation.  
Collective bargaining has proven to be a successful instrument in  
achieving common goals and objectives in the employment relationship  
beiween stesl labor and stae} management, However, here are problems  
of a continuing nature at the level of the work site which significantly  
impact that relationship. Sotutiors te these problems are vita) if he quality  
of wark for employees is to ba enhanced and if the proficiency of the  
business enterprise is to be improved,  
The panies recognize that a cooperative approach between employess  
and supervision at the work site in a department or similar unit is essential  
to the salution of problems affecting them. Many problems at this level  
are not readily subject to resolution under existing contractual programs  
and practices, but affect the ongoing relationships ‘between tabor and  
management at that level. Joint participation in solving these problems at  
ihe departmental tevel is an essential ingredient in any elfon to improve  
the effectiveness of the Company's and to provide  
employees with a measure of involvement adding dignily and to  
their work life.  
In pursuit of these objectives, the parties believe that local union and plant  
Management at the plant can best implement this cooperative approach  
through the establishment of Participation Teams of employees and  
supervision in departments or Similar units at the plant, Accordingly, it is  
163  
   
### APPENDIX H  
agreed that the following program will be undertaken with respect to  
Participation Teams:  
A.  
The Company and the [ntemational Union will determine the  
siza ol the Policy and Advisory Committess and the  
Participation Teams. These determinations shal be made in  
consultation with plant management and the jocat union and  
subject ta their concurrence,  
The Policy Committee, at the plant, will provide  
general direction for the LMPT effort at the Riverdale Plant.  
This Poticy Committee will be made up of key Management  
and Union leadership of the Riverdale Pilani and will also  
provide ongaing and more direction for the LMPT  
effort at the Riverdale Plant, tn each participating division, an  
Advisory Commitiee will coordinate Participation Team  
activities within that division. Each such Advisor Committee  
will be made up of Management and Union teadership within  
thai division and may include other Management and Union  
personnel as is deemed appropriate. Each such Advisory  
Commites may appoint sub-commitiees to deal with specific  
problems or areas as is seamed appropriate. A Parlicipation  
Team wil) be made up of a Team Leader, who may ba either  
a supervisor or an employee, and employes and supernision  
members of the department or unit. Employee members and  
supervision members need not be equal in number, and may  
be rdjated perodically ta permit broader employes  
involvement. Parlicipation Team members will be selected by  
lotiery from among an appropriate group of employse and  
supervisor volunteers for each such team, The members of  
gach such Participation Team will select their Team Leader  
and such position may be rotated parlodically to permit  
broader employee involvement.  
Each employee member of the Policy and Advisory  
Committees or a Participation Team be compensated for  
time spent in Committee or Team in accordance with  
the Pay Guidelines’ jcintly devetoped by and agreed (a  
164  
### APPENDIX H  
via the Polley Committee.  
D.  Pariicipation Team meetings shall be callad by the Taam  
Leader, proferably during normal working hours, as ofien as  
the employee and supervision members agree. A  
Participation Team shall be free to discuss, consider, and  
decide upon proposed means to improve department or unit  
performanca, employee morale and dignity, and conditions of  
the work site. Appropriate subjects, among others, which a  
Team might consider include: Use of production facilities;  
quality of products and quality of the work environment;  
safety and environmental health; scheduling and reporting  
arrangements; absenteelsm and overtime; incentive  
coverage and yield; job alignments; contraciing out; and  
energy conservation and transporiation pools. The Policy  
and Advisory Committees and the Participation Teams shall  
have no jurisdiction over the initiation of, or tha processing of  
complaints or grievances. The Polley and Advisory  
Committees and the Participation Teams shall have no  
authority to add to, datract from, or change the terms of the  
Basic Labor Agreement.  
E. A Participation Team shall be free to consider a full range of  
responses to implemented performance improvement,  
including, but nat limited to, such items as bonus payments  
or changes in incentive performance pay. A Participation -  
Team may also consider one-time stan up bonuses for  
employees on new facilities who reach target levels in  
specilied periods.  
F. To facilitate the establishment of the Policy and Advisory  
Committees and the Participation Tearns, and to assisi them,  
a Team Review Commission has been  
established comprised of a headquarters representative of  
the Intemational Union and a headquarters representative of  
the Company.  
165  
   
Be  
APPENDIX | nae eee  
-=>—-  
### APPENDIX |  
### DEALING WITH TESTING  
While the Union preserves fully its right ta challenge through the  
procedure the present or fuiure use of tests, the Union  
and the Company agree that where lesis are used by the  
Company as an ald in making detanninations of the qualifications  
ol an employee, such a test musi in any event be a job-related  
test. A test, whether oral, written, or in the form of an  
actual work demonstration, is one which measures an  
employee can meet the specific requirements of that  
job. including the ability to absorb any training which may  
necessarily be provided in connection with that job.  
A written test may Not be used untass the job requires reading  
comprehension, writing, or arithmetical skills, and may be used to  
measure ihe comprehension and skills for such job.  
In the case of manning new facilities, transfers from one  
agreed-upon seniority area to another and transfers from one  
plant to another, the parties have agreed in specific provisions of  
ihe seniority of the Basic Agreements that an employee  
may be required to have the ability to progress, To the exient  
ihal such 4 requirement is applicable, the patties agree that an  
employee may be tested as an ald in determining whether he can  
qualify for the job he Is seeking, and in addition, Is likely to  
become qualified to pertorn the next higher job In the line of  
progression or promotional sequence. Such testing shall be  
job-related as described above and specifically directed toward  
measuring the actual knowledge or abiity that is a prerequisite to  
becoming satisfactorily qualified on the next higher job in the line  
of progression or promotional sequenca, taking into consideration  
the normal experience acquired by employees in such promotional  
sequence.  
166  
### APPENDIX |  
3. All tests shall be:  
{a) Fait in their makeup and in their administration;  
{b} Free of cultural, racial, or ethnic  
4. Testing procedures shall in all cases include notification to an  
ernployes ol his deficiencies and an offer to counsel him as to how  
he may overcame such deficiencies.  
5. Where a test is used by the Company as an aid in making a  
determination ot the qualifications of an employee and where the use  
of the fest is propery in the grievance procadure, the  
following is hereby agreed to:  
{a} The Company will fumish to a designated representative of  
the International Union a copy of the disputed lest and ali  
such background and related materials as may be relevant  
and available.  
{b) All such tasts and materials will be held in strictest  
confidence and will nol be copied or disclosed to any other  
person; proved that such tests and maternals may be  
disctosed to an expert in the testing field for the purpose of  
preparation of the Union's position In the grevance  
procedure and to an arbitralor, if the case proceeds to that  
step. Ali tests and materials will be returned to the Company  
following resolution of the dispute,  
(c) Copies of and exhibits presented in the arbitration  
cases invalving tha challenge to a lest will also be held in  
strictest confidence and will not be copied or otherwise  
published.  
6. In the determination of ability and physical finess as used to fill  
apprenticeship vacancies in accordance with the applicable  
seniority provisions of the Basic Labor Agreement, the Company  
shall be jimitad to the use of such examinations and testing  
procedures which are:  
167  
   
=» "232 =  
--  
{a} job-related,  
(b} fair in their makeup and thelr administration, and  
{c) free of racial, or ethnic bias,  
Any tests used by the Company as an aid in making determinations of the  
of an applicant must be job-related tests. A job-related test,  
whether oral, written of in the form of an actual work demonstration, is one  
which measures whether an applicant can satistactority meet the specific  
requirements of the given crafi, including the ability io absorb the  
appropriate training, Testing procedures shafi in afl cases include  
to an applicant of his deficiencies and an olfer to counsel him  
as 40 how he may overcome such deliciencies.  
168  
### APPENDIX J  
### APPENDIX J  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### CONCERNING  
### TRAINING AND EDUCATION  
In recognition of the nationwide and worldwide compatitive challenges that  
confront the Company and the entize work force, the parties have agreed  
to establish the Acme Stee! Company Training and Education Program  
(Ine “Program”} and the ‘Overtime Control Program” for the tenn oi the  
1993 Labor Agreament which shall consist of Company paid educational  
assisiance reimbursement a5 set forth below.  
### i. PURPOSE  
The pumpase of this Program is to provide the means for eligible  
employees to pursue education and training, beyond what is provided at  
the planl, at racognized, accredited educational institutions.  
### i. OBJECTIVE  
The objectives of this Program are:  
A. To upgrade the basic skills and educational levels of  
aclive employees to enhance their ability to absorb  
training, their ability to progress in the workplace, their  
ability to perform their assigned work tasks to tha full  
extent of their potential and their ability to adapt to new  
technological and olher changes in our highly  
compelitive, changing work environment; and  
B, To provide employees with the opportunity lo pursue  
coursework directed toward their personal development.  
### it. ELIGIBILITY  
An employee is an active employee who has one (4) or more  
169  
   
### _ APPENDIX  
years of Plant continuous service. Any employee who ceases active  
employment due to layoff or leave of absence shall become ineligible  
for full parlicipation In this Program effective with such layoff or leave of  
absence and shall not become eligible for full participation in the  
Program untit he/she returns to active employment. Such an emplayee  
will be eligibta for participation on the basis of two (2} courses per year  
white absent from work dua ta tayoff or ieave of absance during the  
three (3) year period applicable to accumulation of his/her continuous  
service for pension purposes. An employee who bs abseni from work  
on “special leave of absence status” (as described in the "Employment  
Security Pian’) shall be ineligible for participation In the Program until  
he/she ratums to active employment.  
### WV. ELIGIBLE COURSES  
Eligible courses will consist of both credit and non-credit courses  
invalved in aither degree of non-degree programs offered al  
recognized, accredited educational Institutions. Such educational  
institutions shall consis! of approved institutlons High Schoot  
Adult Educatlon/G.E.0. caursework, recognized and accrediled  
colleges {including junior and community colleges), recognized and  
accredited universities, approved vocational and trade schools, and  
coursework ofiered by the USW/multi-employer “Institute.” The Joint  
Unlon/Management Educational Committee {described below) may, by  
mutual agreement, add other types of educational institutions to this  
fist. However, itis specifically understood that coursework such ag that  
provided by correspondence schools or any other coursework that  
does not require the employee’s presence and active participation at  
the educational institution, wheiher or nat euch institutlon is otherwise  
approved, andor fully accredited, shall ba considered as  
coursework eligible for reimbursement fram the Company.  
### ¥. JOINT UNION/MANAGEMENT EDUCATION COMMITTEE  
A Joint Union/Management Education Committeg (the “Committees”  
shall be formed al the Plani which will consist of noi mare than four (4)  
persons (except that the Committees may be enlarped to six (6) persons  
170  
### APPENDIX J  
by local agreement), half of whom shall be members of the bargaining  
unit designated by the Local Union in writing to the Plant Management  
and the other half designated in writing to the Local Union by the Plant  
Management. Such Commitise shall meel as necessary to discuss and  
attempt to resolve problems in connection with the operation, application  
and administration of this Program and the "Overtime Control Pragram.”  
In addition, this Committees may, by mutual agreement, approve the  
addition of other types of recognized, accredited educational institutions  
1o those institutions specified in (IV) above and review and approve  
payments made from the fund referred to in Vill below.  
### Vl. APPLICATION FOR EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE  
### REIMBURSEMENT  
A. Courses of siudy must be approved prior to the  
employes’s regisiration and in each course.  
An eligible employee must submit, on an application form  
provided by the Company, required information  
concerning ihe course(s) and the educational institulian  
bafore registering and enralling in the course(s).  
B. Each application must be submitted to the Human  
Resources Department at 15 working days  
{excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) prior to the  
deadline for registration in order to provide adequate time  
for approval before the registration deadline.  
C. Each applicant will be notified, in writing, of whether or  
mt his/her application has been approved within 10  
working days following the date that ihe applicalion was  
received by the Human Resources Deparment.  
D. Any unusual cases which require an inierpretation or  
review will be referred to the Committee for expedited  
handling on a case-by-case basis.  
t?1  
= -~*  
  
### APPENDIX J  
   
### Vil. REMBUASEMENT  
A. Costs eligible tor reimbursement consist of tuition, laboratory lees  
and required textbooks. The cost of meals, iravel, equipment and  
other expenses are not reimbursable.  
B. The Company will pay far eligible costs as follows:  
400% - Grades A, B, or C or a “Pass” in the case ol an  
ungraded Pass/Fail  
50% - Grade D  
0% - Failure, or tncomptletion of course  
*A “Pass” grade is eligible for reimbursement at 100% it  
the course Is graded on a Pass/Fall system only. If the  
course Is graded on a letter basis with an option to take a  
Pass/Fail grade, and the employes chooses to take a  
Pass/Fail grade, it will be paid at 50% if it is passed.  
Fitty percent (50%) of the aligible costs will be paid to the  
employee by the Company as soon as practicable after  
ihe time the course is begun, provided proper  
documentation of ragistration and enrolment is received  
irom the employee. The ramaining portion wilt be paid  
following the completion of the coursa in accordance with  
the schedule in (B) above. Receipts ior att eligible cosis  
and the official grade record must be presented to the  
Human Resources Department within eight (8} weeks of  
the course completion date. Failure to comply with the  
above will result in the advance payment being deducted  
from the paycheck as soon as possible,  
Failure or incomptetion of a course will also in ihe  
advance payment being deducted from the smployes’s  
paycheck.  
Employees who receive advance payment and who are  
discharged for cause or terminate their employment for  
172  
### APPENDIX J  
any reason prior to the completion of ihe approved  
course(s} will have the advance deducted irom their final  
paycheck or from any other monies due. Any eligible  
employee who ceases to be an active employee due to  
layoif or leave of absence will be reimbursed tor  
approved coursework started while the employee was an  
active employee if he/she meets all other necessary  
Sligtdility criteria for final (the last 50%) reimbursement.  
Such an employee will then be ineligible for full  
participation in this Program untit he/she returns to active  
employment as set forth in Ill above.  
3. Paymenis under this Program will not be made for any  
costs which are linanced by any other source (e.9., G.I.  
Bill, scholarships, grants, etc.).  
4, The income tax consequences of any payments made to  
employees under this Program will be determined by the  
law in effect at the time payments are made.  
### VID. OVERTIME CONTROL PROGRAM  
A. Effective September 1, 1993, for one-half (50%) of the number of  
hours worked in excess of 56 hours within a payroll week that an  
employee is compensated for at overtime rales, the Company  
shall contribute $10.00 per hour io the fund set forth in Subsection  
below.  
B. Such contributions shall be accumulated in a fund to be used for  
payment of expanses associated with the Employee  
Assistance Program (including a substance abuse  
program); the "tuition" cost of salety  
seminars for bargaining unit members of the Joint  
Union/Management Safaty Commities who attend such seminars;  
job-related training and education such as pre-apprenticaship  
preparation programs, apprenticeship programs, crafi and  
non-craft described and classified job training; Iraining undertaken  
to man the proposed new slab castes/hot strip mill facility; and/or  
173  
### - -APPENDIX J  
for other purposes that are mutually agreed to by the Local  
Union and Management. This fund will be administered by the  
Company. The Company shall furnish the Joint Union/  
Management Education Committee a quarterly calendar report  
credits and charges to the Plant’s fund and stating the  
currant level of the Plant's fund, in addition, the Company shall  
fumish both to the Union's Chairman of the Negotiating  
Committee and to the Joint Union/Managament Education  
Committee a quarterly payroll report showing, by each division in  
the Piant, the total number of hours worked in the pay periods  
paid in the quarter for which an overtime control credit has been  
incurred pursuant to this Section.  
If the fund described above accumulates monies beyond that  
which is reasonably necessary to provide one year of luture  
paymenis for ihe purposes described in (B) above {as determined  
by ihe average payments made from this fund per year for the  
wo {2) years nex preceding), then the Company may, with the  
approval of the Internationa) and Loca! Union, apply all of the  
excess amount of such funding toward the cost of other training  
and education programs, such es LMPT expenses or jor olher  
purposes determined by mutual agreement of the Intemational  
Union, the Local Union and Management, During such discussion,  
the International Union and the Local Union shall be provided with  
appropriate information regarding the amount of money in such  
fund, the to be applied taward the cost of other programs,  
and the programs to which such monies will be applied.  
### IX. MISCELLANEOUS  
A.  
It Ig nat the Company's intent to provide a leave of absence to an  
employee etigible for this Program lor ihe purpose of attending an  
approved educational instilution.  
Any situation which requires an of the eligibility  
raquirements of this Agreement or any unusual circumstances will  
174  
### APPENDIX J  
be promptly drought to the attention of the Committee for review  
and atiempted resolution in an expedited manner on a  
case-by-case basis. lf tha Committee is unable to resolve a  
dispute conceming the interpretation or application of, ar  
compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, a grievance  
may be filed regarding such dispute directly into the Third Step of  
the grievance procedure within thirty (30} days of the date that the  
Committee determined that such dispute could not be resolved by  
the Commitee,  
175  
   
### APPENDIX K  
### APPENDIX K  
### MISCELLANEOUS UNDERSTANDINGS ON SAFETY  
### ANO HEALTH MATTERS  
### I. LETTER AGREEMENT REGARDING SAFETY AND HEALTH  
### INFORMATION  
Dear Mr. Markonnl:  
This will confimm our understanding that the Company will  
provide tha Unton with Information on Sataty and Health matters  
a8 provided below:  
A. Acclient Notification - The Union Co-Chairman of the  
Salety and Health Committee or his designes shail be  
nolifled of accidents which resull or could have resulted in  
death of disabilng Injury to bargaining unit employee(s)  
thal sequire a formal faci finding invesiigation.  
   
Hlesith Department - The Company will provide the  
Iniemational Union Safety and Health with  
prompt notification of any accident resulting in a te  
a Union member. This notification shall be either ora! or  
written and Inctude the date of the fatality, the plant or  
unit location of the fatallty, and, If known, the cause of the  
When it becomes avallable, the Company will  
176  
### APPENDIX K  
provida the Union Safety and Health  
Department with a copy of the latal accident report that is  
given to the Locaf Union Satety and Heath Committee,  
It is Understood that any necessary discussion or other  
communication on this data between the Company and  
the International Union will be with the indivktual  
to provide such information,  
c. OSHA Form 200 - Each year, the Company will, from  
the same source described in B above, provide ihe  
International Union Satety and Heallh Gepartment  
with the OSHA Form 200 Summary of Occupational  
Injuries and Ifinesses oy its equivalent.  
Very truly yours,  
R. J. Stefan  
Vice President - Emptoyes Relations  
### CONFIRMED:  
Paul Markonni  
Staff Representative  
United Steelworkers of Amenca  
77  
0 == 2 ete  
### ll. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON SAFETY AND  
### HEALTH TRAINING  
A. Generali  
Tha Company recognizes the spacial need to provide  
approprialé safety and health training to all employses.  
The Company presently has salety and health training  
that provides either the training described below or the  
basis for such training as # relates to the neads of the  
Company.  
Training programs shail recognize that there are different  
needs for safely and health training for newly hired  
employees, employees who are transferred or assigned  
to a new job, and employees who require periodic  
retraining.  
B. Training of ly Hired Employees  
Newly hired employees shall receive training in the  
general recognition of safely and health hazards and the  
purpose and function of the Company's Safety, Health  
and Medical Departments, and the Joint Safety and  
Health Commilites. In addition, upon initial assignment to  
a job, they shall receive training on ihe nature of the  
operation or process, the safety and health hazards of the  
job, the safe working procedures, the purpase, use and  
limitations of personal protective equipment required, and  
ather controls or pracaulions assaciated with the job.  
The Union Co-Chalrman of the Safety and Health  
Commities or a designee shall, upon request, be afforded  
(ha opportunity to review the training program for newly  
hired employees at the Plani level.  
178  
### APPENDIX K  
Cc.  
The training of employees ather than those newly hired by  
the Company shalt be directed to the hazards of the job or  
jobs of which they are required to work. Such training  
shall include hazard recognition, safe warking procedures,  
purpose, use and limitations of special personal protective  
equipment required, and any other appropriate specialized  
instruction.  
O.  Betraining  
As required by the employess’ job and assignment area,  
periodic retraining shall be given on safe working  
procedures, hazard recognition, and other necessary  
procedures and precautions.  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON TOXIC MATERIALS  
Where the Company uses toxic materials, it shall inform the  
affected employees what hazards, il any, are involved, and what  
precautions shail ba taken to insura the safety and health: of the  
Upon the request of the Union Co-Chairman of the  
Safety and Committee, the Company shail provide in  
writing requested information from material safety data sheets or  
their equivalent on toxle substances to which employees are  
exposed in the work place; provided thal when the Information is  
considered proprietary, the Company shall so advise the Union  
and provide sufficient Infomation for the Union to  
make further inquiry.  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON SAMPLING  
The Company will continue its program of perlodic in-plant air  
sampling and noise testing under the direction of qualified  
personnel. Where the Union Co-Chairman of the Safety and  
Health Committes alleges a significant on-the-jab health hazard  
Gue to in-plant air pollution, or noise, Ihe Company will also make  
such additional tests and investigations as ara and  
shall notity the Union Co-Chairman of the Safety and Health  
179  
### APPENDIX K  
Vi,  
when such a test is to take place, A report based on  
such additional tests and investigations shall be reviewed and  
discussed with the Safety and Health Commities. For such  
surveys conducted at the request of the Union Co-Chairman of  
the Safety and Heaith Commitiee, a written summary of the  
sampling and testing results and the conclusions of the  
investigation shalt be provided to the Safety and Health  
Conunitiee.  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON MEDICAL  
### RECORDS  
The Company shail maintain the confidentiality of reports of  
medicat examinationg of is employees and shall only lurnish such  
raparts io a physician designated by the employee upon the  
written authorization of the employee; provided, that ihe Company  
may use or supply such medical examination reports of iis  
employeas in response to subpoenas, requests to the Company  
by any govemmmental agency authorized by law to obtain such  
reports, and in arbitration or fitigation of any claim or action  
involving lhe Company.  
Whenever the Company physician detecis a medical condition  
which, in his judgment, requires jurther medical attention, the  
Company physician shall advise Ihe employee of such condilions  
or to consult with his personal physician.  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON SAFETY SHOES  
During the periods of September 1, 1993, to February 1, $995;  
February 2, 1995, to August 31, 1997; and tram September 1,  
1997, to Augus! 31, 1999, each employee who has at least hwo (2)  
years of continuous service may procure during any such time  
period al local vendor(s) designated by lhe Company one (1) pals  
of safety shoes to wear al the Plant, far which the Company will  
delray up to $70.00 of the cost of such shoes. Empioyaes may  
not carry over shoe allowance from one time period fo another.  
This benefit is in lieu of and supersedes any local practice or  
180  
   
### APPENDIX K  
agreement to pay for shoes or metatarsals.  
### Vil. LETTER AGREEMENT REGARDING INDEMNIFICATION  
September 3, 1993  
Mr. Jack Parton  
Orrector, 31  
Uniied Steelworkers of America  
720 W. Chicago Avenue, Room 211  
Eas! Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
During the negotiations leading to the September 1, 1993 Agreement, the  
partes discussed the Union's role under Article 9, Safety and Health, of  
### the Acme Steel Company-Riverdale Plant Basic Labor Agreament and the  
applicable federal and state laws.  
The Ynion has reaffirned that il is the Company's responsibility to make  
reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees at ihe  
plant during the hours of their employment and that the Union's role in this  
fegard will be supportive in promoting sale and healthful practices and  
programs. Further, the Union has reaffimned that it will make every  
reasonable t0 encourage the active cooperation of ils  
representatives and members with such practices and programs and will ©  
discourage and/or unnecessary appeals to governmental  
bodies to intervene in the resolution of any issues.  
The parties agrees that it is their intention that the Union is not liable for  
any work-connacted injuries, disabitities oc diseases which may be  
incurred by In order to effectuate this inteni, whether or nat  
it is expressly slated in the Basic Labor Agreement, and to encourage the  
Union to discharge its obligaiian ta cooperate with and assist the  
Company in tullilling its responsibitities under the Basic Labor Agreement  
181  
   
   
  
### APPENDIX K  
OC nn rr ee se  
   
and the law, the Company shall indemnify the Union, its committees,  
officars, agents, and employees, against claims and suits for damages  
when such claims or suits involve or arise from ihe Union's participation  
or involvement in contractual safety and health matters and are based on  
any injury or iliness, including death, of employees of the Company  
arising or growing out of and in the course of ihe employment of such  
employees by the Company, except that this obligation shall not apply to  
a daim ar suit based on an explicit overt act of negligence on the part of  
the Union of any agent of the Union or to a claim or suit based upon an  
agreement by the Union to indemnify or insure émployess af the  
Company.  
The obligation af the Company to Indemnity the Union shall be subject to  
the following conditions:  
1, The Union shall give the Company Immediate written natice of any  
claim made against the Union, its committees, officers, agents and  
employees and shall alfectively tender to the Company control of the  
defense and setttament of such claim; and  
2. The Union, its locats, committees, ollicers, agents, atiorneys, and  
empkiyees shall bring forth all Information relevant to any claims and  
shalt cooperate fully with tha Company, at no expense to the  
Company, in the investigatian and defense of all claims, and shall  
not have taken and will take no action prejudicia! to the successful  
defense of the daim; and  
3. The Company shall have all rights of detense, setof!, counterclalm  
and subrogation in connection with such claims which may be  
available fo tha Union, its committees, officers, agents and  
employees and any necessary person shall execuie such  
instruments as may be reasonable and appropriate to enable the  
Company te exercise such rights; and  
4. The Company shall have no duty to Indemnity the Union, its  
committees, officers, agents, or employees against any calm  
resulting in whole or in part from the failure or refusal of a member of  
the Union to use equipment ar procedures established and mada  
162  
ae ee  
a — Se  
   
### APPENDIX K  
known to ihe employees by the Company in any manner by the  
Union; and  
5. Failure of the Union to comply with Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 hereol  
shall religve the Company of any obligation to indemnify the Union  
against any claim subject to such failure.  
6. The Company may terminate on thirty (30) days’ notice ils duty to  
indemnity the Union against claims of which the Company has not  
had written notice at the time of giving the Union notice of  
termination. Such termination shall not retieve the Company of any  
obligation to indemnity the Union any claim of which the  
Company had written notica before giving the Union notice of  
termination.  
The provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to and eflective  
according to the applicable provisions of lederal and state laws.  
Very truly yours,  
### ACME STEEL COMPANY  
Gerald J. Shope  
Vice President-Human Resources  
### CONFIRMED:  
ésfJ. Parton  
Chairman  
Negotialing  
United Steelworkers of America  
183  
### APPENDIX L  
### APPENDIX L  
### NATIONAL POLICY FOR STEEL AGREEMENT  
September 1, 1993  
Mr. Lynn FR. Williams, President  
United Steetworkers of America  
Five Gateway Center  
Pittsburgh, Pa 15222  
Dear Mr. Williams:  
The domastic ste! industry, despite its current profitabltity, has not fully  
recovered Irom the severe financial losses of recent years. ll an  
industry in iransilian, Recognizing the need to deal with the problems  
facing the industry, ihe United Steelworkers of America ("the Union") and  
Acme Steet Company (“the Company") agree to establish a National  
Policy for Steel Committee (“the Commitiee"} to develop and support bath  
traditional and innovative means to create an environment in which the  
domestic steel indusiry may achiave sustained profitability and help  
ensure the of employeas, customers, shareholders, suppllers  
and the steel communities.  
The Commities will be chaired by Mr. 8. W. H. Marsden, Chairman and  
CEO, Acme Motals, Incorporated, and you. Successtul implementation of  
its objective will require an integrated approach to numerous problems  
facing the American economy. In attempting lo meet its objective and  
achieve such the Cammiltee will focus on the following areas:  
the development and implementation of a national trade policy:  
- the consideration of and possible development of an appropriate  
national health policy;  
1B4  
### APPENDIX L  
recognition of the critical need to restore America’s inirastructure and  
industrial base;  
development of a national fiscal and monetary policy; and  
of a sound environmenial policy which recognizes the  
interrelationship between the need to protect our environment and  
the need for a healthy aconomy to assure an acceptable  
standard of living for our citizens.  
the estabtishment of a Stes! Tripartite Committee to coordinate ihe  
responses of goverment, indusiry, and labor to problams facing the  
si¢el Industry.  
the consideration of public polices supporting the ability of the steel  
industry to meet its for the legacy costs of pensions and  
relires healih insurance.  
Within each of these araas, the Commitise will:  
National Trade Policy  
a  
Promote strict enforcement by the Executive Branch of all existing  
Irade taws, including the imposition of sanctions pursuant to #301,  
ang suppori the enactment of legislation and oiher programs dealing  
with indirect siee! imporis.  
National Health Policy  
  
Seek to develop and support an appropriate national health policy  
which will assure esseniial care to all citizens, control health care  
costs and equitably disiribute those costs acrass the various sectors  
of he economy.  
185  
   
### APPENDIX L  
Industrial Infrastructure  
- Encourage public awareness of the ‘need to rebuild America’s  
industrial base through the repair and reconstruction of the nation’s  
injcasiructure, including bridges, highways and other essential  
facilities, ulllizing American-made products.  
Fiscal & Monetary Policy  
- Work towards an overall national monetary policy which will address  
tha need to reduce both ihe national debt and the wade deficit,  
contral inflation and interest rates and encourage individual savings,  
Environment  
- Support responsible legislation and enforcement activities to protect  
and preserve the world’s resources in a manner consisten! with  
continuing a healthy and growing economy.  
Steel Tripartite Commissio  
- (Urge the Administration to establish a Steel Tripartite Committee  
uniting labor, industry, and government in improving the  
competitiveness of the steel industry in areas such s¢ trade,  
technology, health care, tralning, atc.  
Legacy Costs  
+ In recognition that our retirement system imposes costs on Amencan  
companies well above those faced by our competitors,  
seek io develop public policies supporting the ability of sieel  
companies to meet benetit obtigations.  
166  
   
### APPENDIX  
In jurtherance of these endeavors, the Commitiee will draw upon existing  
lepisiative, employee and groups, expand ther public  
information programs and take the initiative in tomnulating and advancing  
viable solutions. Acme Steel Company and the Union have a shared  
interes! in achieving these goals and agree to work diligently te achieve  
them during the tenn of this Agreement.  
Very truly yours,  
### ACME STEEL COMPANY:  
A. J. Stelan  
Vice President-Employea Relations  
Acme Metals Incorporated  
### CONFIRMED:  
Lynn R. Wilkams, President  
United Steelworkers of America  
187  
   
### APPENDIX M  
### APPENDIX M  
### UNDERSTANDINGS ON CORPORATE ISSUES  
### l. LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER ON  
### SALE OF ACME STEEL COMPANY COMMON STOCK  
August 41, 1993  
Mr, Jack Parton  
Director, District 34  
United Steeiworkers of America  
First National Bank Building, Room 211  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
East Chicago, IN 46372 —  
RE: Right of First Offer on Sale of Acme Steel Company Common  
Stock  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
in connection with the recently completed negotiasions between the United  
Steelworkers of America (USWA") and Acme Steet Company and Acme  
Packaging Corporation (collectively the “Company"}, the parties have  
feached the following understandings applicable to the Company's  
Riverdale and Chicago Ptants:  
1. a. Should Acme Metals, Incorporaled ("AMI") or the  
Campany, through a single iransaction or series of  
decide ta sell or otherwise transfer (i) ownership or of  
shares of stock representing voting control of the Company  
188  
   
### APPENDIX i  
(‘Common Stock") oy {ii} all or a significant portion of the  
Riverdale or Chicago Plants (the "Facilities" or individually, a  
“Facikty"), it will consider the USWA and its members as the first  
potential buyer therefor. AM! or the Company, as applicable, will  
advise the USWA in writing of its intent to sell such Common  
Stock or a Facility (collectively, the "Asseis”). The tendering to  
AMI or the Company of an unsolicited offer to purchase Common  
Stock or the Facilities shall only be considered a decision to sell  
or otherwise transfer ownership of such Assets if AMI or the  
Company commences negotiations with such offeror or its  
representatives. In no case, however, shall AMI or the Company  
enter into any agreement or understanding to sell the Assets  
without firs! complying with the provisions of this letter.  
0. Subject to the USWA and AMI or the Company, as  
applicable, entering into a Agreement substantially  
in accordance with the provisions of Exhibit A atlached hereto and  
incorporated herewith {to be mutually agreed upon), AMI or the  
Campany will provide ihe USWA with information and access fo  
Company personnel and facilities needed to determine whether  
it wishes to make an offer. Such information and access shall be  
of the type customarily provided to prospective purchasers of such  
Assets.  
c. During the {first thisty (30) days from ithe date AMI or the  
Company notifies the USWA pursuant lo Paragraph 1a above,  
AMI and the Company will not entertain or enter into a contract for  
sale of the Assets. The USWA shail be entitled to submit a  
written offer to purchase !he Assets at any time during such thirty  
{30} day period.  
d. During the next sixty (60) day period, AMI and the  
Company will be free to entertain offers from other entities ior  
ihe Assets, and the USWA will also be entitled to submit an offer  
during such period, but AMI or the Company, as applicable, will  
not enter into a contract for sale of the Assets to any entity  
than ihe USWA during such sixty (60) day period.  
189  
— =F: rome  
### APPENDIX M  
8. In the event the thirty (30) and sixty (60) day periods  
referred to in Paragraphs t¢ and 1d, respectively, have elapsed,  
AMI or the Company shall be entillad; subject to this Paragraph  
le and Paragraph 11, to enter inia an agreement to sell such  
Assets to any purchasers, Including the USWA, provided that  
such a transaction must close within one year alter the end of  
such periods. tf the Assats have not been sold during such one  
year period, AMI or the Company, as applicable, must comply  
@galn with the provisions of this letter agreement belore selling  
such assels.  
j. In the event that ihe USWA submits an offer pursuant to  
Paragraphs 1c or id above, neithar AMI nor the Company, as  
applicable, shall be under any obligation to accepi such offer or  
to negotiate with tha USWA conceming such offer. However, AMI  
or tha Company, as applicable, shall be entitled to enter into a  
binding purchase agreement with regard to the Assets with an  
eniity other than the USWA, provided thal the transaction  
contemplated by such purchase agreement is in the reasonable  
judgment of the Soard of Directors of AMI or the Company, as  
applicable, more favorable to AMI or ihe Company than the  
USWA offer, taking into account the purchase price, forn of  
consideration, structure, timing, risk of non-consummation, impact  
on the business of AM} or the Company, other obligations of AMI  
or tha Company, and other relevant legal and financial  
considerations, Nothing contained herein shall require AM or the  
Company to accept any offer by any entity, Including the USWA,  
ior the purchase of the Asses,  
The righis granted the USWA under this ietter may not  
be transfered or assigned by the USWA except that its rights  
may be assigned to and exercised by an acquistion entily  
established by or for the benelit of the appropriate USWA-  
represented employees; and, further provided, that said  
employees shall own directly or indirectly through an employee  
stock ownership plan (or similar plan) noi tass than thirty-three  
percent (33%) of the valing equity interesis In such sequisilion  
entity.  
180  
   
### APPENDIX  
a.  
This agreement shall nol be deemed to caver any sales of  
issuances by AMI of its own securities, or any sales or issuance  
of debt securities, convertible securilies, prefered stock or  
warrants by tha Company, provided that AM! retains at least fifty-  
ane percent (51%) voting contro! of the Company.  
Nothing herein shall be deemed to release, refieve or otherwise  
aftect any of the rights and obligations of the parties pursuant to  
the Memorandum of Understanding on Successorsship sei forth in  
Appendix N of this Agreement.  
This agreement shall remain in effect for the term of the  
Agreement between the USWA and the Company dated  
Seplember 1, 1993 (the “Collective Bargaining Agrepment") and  
shall expire at ihe termination date of said Collective Bargaining  
Agreement.  
it ihe foregoing confirms our mutual understandings and agreements,  
please sign and return to me the duplicate original copy of this  
agreement at your earliest opportunity.  
### ACME STEEL COMPANY:  
By G. J. Shope  
### ACME PACKAGING CORPORATION:  
By G, J. Shope  
### ACME METALS, INCORPORATED:  
By A. J. Stefan  
### ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED TO;  
### UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC:  
By J, Parton  
191  
### APPENDIX M4  
### It LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - ACME METALS,  
### INCORPORATED’S ANO ACME PACKAGING  
### CORPORATION'S SIGNATURES ON THE COLLECTIVE  
### BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
August 11, 1993  
Mr. Jack Parton  
Direcior, District 31  
United Steetworkers of America  
First National Bank Building, Room 211  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
East Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
The parties recognize and agree that Acme Matals, Incorporated’s (AMI)  
and Acme Packaging Corporation's (APC) signatures on the Collective  
Agreement shall not cause the and conditions of  
employment set forth in the Agreement dated September 1, 1993 to apply  
te employees olher than those employed al the Riverdale and Chicago  
Plants. Nor shall AMI’ and APC’s signature on the Agreement affect, in  
any manner whalsosver, AMI's or APC's rights, obligations or  
responsibilities with regard to operations other than those of the Chicago  
and Riverdale Plants.  
AMI shall not, and shail not permit, cause, or suffer any subsidiary of AMI  
to conduct any business or enter inio any transaction or series of  
transactions with or for the benefil of any of their affiliates,  
excep in good faith and an terms that are no less favorable to or  
such subsidiary as the case may be than ihose that could have been  
obtained in a comparable transaction on an arms’ length basis from a  
person not an affiliate of AMI or a subsidiary.  
192  
   
### APPENDIX M  
AMI’s signature on the Benefit evidences AMI's responsibility  
tor pension, retiree health benefits, and retiree jife insurance benefits  
provided to retired Union-represented employees, surviving spouses or  
their beneficiaries who, as of August 31, 1993, are receiving or are eligible  
to receive such Denefits under the Agreements of any prior setilement  
agreements between the Union and Acme Stee! Company,  
Very truly yours,  
Richard J. Stefan  
Vice President-Employee Relations  
### ACME METALS INCORPORATED  
### ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED TO:  
Jack Parton  
Diracior, District 31  
### UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC  
193  
### APPENDIX MW  
### til. LETTER AGREEMENT - BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
August! 31, 1993  
Mr. Lynn R. Williams, Intemational President  
United Steatworkers of America  
Five Gateway Center  
Pittsburgh, PA 15222  
Dear Mr. Williams:  
RE: Board o/ Directors  
This will our agreement whereby an Individual designated by the  
International President of the United of America will be  
elecied to the Board of Directors of Acne Metals Incorporated as set forth  
herein, The person designated shall be acceptable to the Company, and  
such acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld. Such person shall  
be elected at the first reguiar meeting of said Board of Olrectors following  
(1} designation of such an individual by the Union or (2) ihe expiration of  
the August 1, 1989 Collective Bargaining Agreement, whichever occurs  
later, lo serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his  
or her euecessor i& so dasignaled, elected, and qualilied. Thereatter,  
during the tern of this agreament, such an Individual, so designated, will  
be nominated by tha Board of Directors for slection as a director at any  
meating of the of the Company at which directors ara  
elected. If any such individual is unwilling or unable or for any reason  
ceases to serve Of be nominated for election as a director of the  
Company, the Board of Directors will promptly elect or nominate for  
election by the stockholders, as the case may be, another individual so  
designated by the Union.  
It is the Intention of the Company and the Union that the individual lo be  
designated by the Union hereunder shall be a prominent member of the  
business, labor, or academic cammunily who is Capable In his or her role  
as a director of contributing broadly to the management and direction of  
194  
     
  
### APPENDIX 4  
the business and affairs of the Company.  
His duriher andersiood thal such individual shall satisfy reasonable and  
objective observed by the Nominating Committee of the  
Board of Directors of tha Company in the selection of nominees lor  
election a8 diractors and will also have ail of the duties and responsibilitias  
generally applicable to a director of a corporation, under Delaware law or  
aherwise, inctuding those relating to loyalty, conflicts of interest, and  
matters requiring confidentiality. Such shall not be, or become  
while serving as a director, an officer or employes of the Union or any of  
its locals or affiliated organizations. The preceding sentence shall not  
prectude the Union irom designating persons who have been of are  
consultants or professional advisers to the Union.  
Unless atherwise extended by the Company and the Union, this  
agreement shaa terminate August 31,3999.  
Please acknowledge your agraament with respect to this matter by signing  
and returning to me the ericlosed copy of this letier.  
Very truly yours,  
Acme Metals, Incorporated  
B. W. H. Marsden  
Chairman and Chief Execulive Olficer  
195  
### APPENDIX N  
### APPENDIX N  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON SUCCESSORSHIP  
1. Except as provided in Section 2 below, the Company agrees that it  
wilt not sell, convey, assign or otherwise transter any plant or  
significant part thereot covered by a Labor Agreement between the  
Company and the United Steelworkers of America to any other party  
(Buyes} who intends to operate the plant or significant part thereo! in  
the same business the Company operated it, unless tha following  
conditions have been satisfied prior to the closing date ol ihe sale:  
a. The Buyer shall have entered into an agreement with ihe Union  
recognizing it as the bargaining representative for the employses  
within the existing bargaining units or units affected;  
b. The Buyer shall have entered into an agreement with ine Union  
astablishing the terns and conditions of employment io be eflec-  
tive a8 Oo} the closing date:  
c. If requesied by the Company, the Union will enter Into negoatia-  
tions with the Company on the subject of releasing and  
discharging the Company from any obligations, responsibilities  
and liabilities to ihe Union and the employees, except as the  
parties otherwise mutually agree.  
This provision is not intanded to apply to any transaction solely between  
the Company and any of its subsidiaries or aifitiates, or its parent  
company, including any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; nor is @ intended  
la to transactions involving the sale of stock, except that the  
provision shall apply to a or a series of Iransactions that  
result in a change of control,  
196  
   
### APPENDIX N  
2.  
in the case of a plant that has been permanently shut down for more  
than ninety (90) days prior to its sale, conveyance, assignment or  
iranster, ine provisions of Subparagraph 1b shall not apply unless the  
Union esiablishes that the conditions of employment insisted upon by  
the Unien in its final position with the Buyer are not unreasonable in  
all the circumstances. In the case of a plant that has been perma-  
nently shut down for more than one year prior to the sale,  
conveyance, assignment or transfer, the provisions of Paragraph 1  
shall net apply.  
### APPENDIX O  
   
a. . 2- dts  
### APPENDIX O  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### CONCERNING  
### BIDDING RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES WHILE  
### ON LAYOFF FROM THE PLANT  
The intent of this Agreement is to provide employees, while on layoff from  
the plant, ihe opportunity to bid on jobs (permanent vacancies) posted at  
the “Plan? Gate" lavel of the bidding procedure. In order to effectuate the  
the following undersiandings have been reached by the parties:  
(1}  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
Employees (excluding “transitional employses"} who are on layolt  
from the ptant shall be eligible to bid, along with other presently  
eligible employess, on jobs (permanent vacancies) posted at the  
*Plant level of the bidding procedure only. However,  
employees, while on fayofl from the plant, will continue to be In-  
aligite to bid on jobs (permanent vacancies} posted at the  
"“Division* level of tha bidding procedure.  
The procedure for posting and awarding permanent vacancies  
and for handling all other related matters, inctuding the  
cancellation of and crediting of continuous will be as set  
forth in the relevant provisions oj the Labor Agreement, such a3  
Paragraph (C) of the Seniority Rules, as well as Aricie XVI,  
Section + and Article XV!, Section 3 of the Labor Agreement.  
This Agreement will not, in any manner, aller or affect the  
“absantea bid” provision of Paragraph (C)$ of the Seniority Rules.  
Those categories of employees who are presently eligible to fits  
an absentee bid wil) continue to utilize that procedure, Employees  
on layoff from the plant will continue to be ineligible to file an  
absentee bid.  
An additional bulletin board getting forth job postings posted at the  
“Plant Gate” level has been placed outside of Guilding 28 in order  
168  
   
—  
### APPENDIX O  
(5)  
(6)  
(7)  
to provide employees on layoff from the Plant the opportunity to  
find out which jobs are posted at the "Plant Gate" level.  
It will bs the sole responsibilay of each employee, while on tayoft  
from the Plant, to actively check ihls bulletin board for such job  
postings, and il is understood thal the Company will not be  
obligated to provide any information of any kind conceming such  
postings over the telephone or by any means other than the  
posting iisalf.  
Bids filed by employess who are on layoll irom the Plant that are  
filed in a timely manner will be accepted at the Employment Office  
and bid forms will be available at that office. Bids that are not  
timely will not be accepted or considered.  
This Agreement will continue in eifect for tha duration of the  
September 1, 1993 Labor Agreement. During this period, this  
Agreement may be or modified by mutual agreement o}  
the parties. Thereatter, this Agreement is subjaci to renewal by  
mutual agreement of the parties,  
199  
ee = -_—- — - —_—  
### APPENDIX P  
### APPENDIX P  
### PROFIT SHARING PLAN  
1, Description of the Pian  
The Profit Sharing Pian ("the Plan") is designed to reward ail eligible  
Steslworker participants In the Plan for their collactive and successful  
éffons when Acme Stee! Company‘s Chicago and Riverdale Plants and  
Acme Packaging Corporation’s Riverdale Plant the "Company"  
for purposes of the Plan} are profitable as a consolidated entity.  
The profit to be shared under this Plan will be based upon the pre-tax,  
pre-Plan income of Ihe Company determined in accordance with generally  
accepted accounting principles, non-recurning, unusual and  
exiraordinary items. The funds provided for disirbution to eligible  
Steelworker participants wil) be determined annually and will be dependent  
upon the Company’s altainment of profitability during a Plan Year.  
Whenever thera are changes in accounting principles or standards which  
are material, tha Company will consistently follow, for the purposes of  
calculating pre-tax, pre-Plan income, the samé mathods of accounting  
utilized in the preséntation of Acme Metals, Incorporated’s 1992 financial  
staiements, excep! lor FAS 106, throughout the term of the Plan. For  
Plan purposes, pre-tax, pra-Pian income will be calculated by presenting  
employee healih benefit In operating results  
uiilizing the method of accounting used prior to the adoption of FAS 106.  
No later than thirty (30) days following the filing of Acme Metals,  
Incorporaied’s annual Form 10K with the Securilies and Exchange  
Commission, the pre-tax, pre-Plan income of the Company, the total! of all  
eligible eligible Plan hours, the Plan payment par eligible Ptan  
hour, and ihe amount made available to the Protit Sharing Plan,  
determined in accotdance wilh Subsection 4b below, shall be certified to  
the Union Negotiating Committee in a format agreed upon by  
the parties. Up to ten perceni (10%) of the pre-tax, pre-Plan income  
the Company during the Plan Year in question, as detennined in  
accordance with Subsection 4b befow, shall be made available to tha Plan  
200  
   
### APPENDIX P  
and distributed to the eligible participants in the Plan in accordance with  
Section 4 below.  
The method oj determining the individual Profit Sharing Plan payment to  
eligible participants will be based on a calculation of the individual eligible  
annual eligible Plan hours by an amount (the Plan  
payment per eligible Plan hour) dalermined in accordance with Subsection  
4b(2) below.  
2. Eligibility  
Participation in the Plan wil be extended to all hourly paid employees af  
the Company at its Chicago and Riverdale Plants represented for  
collective bargaining purposes by the United Steeworkers of America who  
sve active in the Plan Year for which a Protii Sharing Plan payment is  
calculated. Any such employee whose continuous service or length of  
employment is broken during a Plan Year for a reason ather  
ihan death, immediate pension, termination in accordance with the  
Severance Altowanca provisions, termination under the “Attrition  
Inducement” program, or termination {of a transitional employee) dus to  
lack of work shall not be an eligible participant in the Plan Year in which  
such break occurred, unless such break is subsequently removed.  
3. Definitions  
a. Pre-Tax, Pre-Pian income  
The pre-tax, pre-Plan income of the Company is ihe  
cansolidated net income of Acme Steel Company's  
Chicago and Riverdale Plants and Acme Packaging  
Carporation’s Riverdale Plant in accordance  
with generally accepted accounting principles, belore  
taxes and Plan expenses, excluding non-recurring,  
unusual and extraordinary items, calculated in accordance  
with the understandings set forth in the third paragraph of  
Section 1.  
### APPENDIX P  
b.  
¢.  
Eligible Pian Hours  
An eligible participant's atraighi-ime hours actually  
worked (including the straighi-time portion of overtime,  
Sunday, and holiday hours worked), paid hours of  
vacation, hours paid tor holidays nol worked, and hours  
for which an eligible participant was paid by the Company  
for Union business, ilmited to a maximum of 2,000 eligible  
Plan hours for an eligible participant in a Plan Year.  
Pian Year  
The fiscal year specified in Acme Metals, incorporated’s  
filing o! its annual 10-K form with the Secunitles and  
Exchange Commission, For example, tha 1996 Plan  
Year shall be the fiscal year specified in the filing of Acme  
Metals, incomoratad’s 1996 10-K filing with tha Securities  
and Exchange Commission.  
4. Determination and Distribution of Profit Sharing Plan  
Payments  
The Pian shail be effective beginning on the first day of  
Plan Year 1996.  
The Pian provides that up to len percent (10%) of the  
pre-tax, pre-Plan income of the Company for a Ptan Year,  
subject to ihe effect of specified maximums, shall be  
made available to the Profit Sharing Plan and distributed  
to the eligible participants in the Plan. The amount thal  
shail be made available to the Profit Sharing Plan for a  
Plan Year shal) be determined in the following manner:  
(4) Each eligible total eligible Plan  
hours, up to a maximum of 2,000 eligible Plan  
hours for an eligible participant, wilt be  
accumulated for the pay periods ending in a Plan  
Year.  
202  
   
### APPENDIX P  
(2)  
The amount of the Pian payment per eligible Pian  
hour fora Plan Year shall be calculated by dividing  
ten percent (10%) of ihe pre-tax, pre-Plan income  
of the Company for the Plan Year by the sum ol  
ail eligible participanis’ eligible Plan hours during  
that Plan Year, subject to the maximum Plan  
payment per eligible Pian hour that is in effect for  
that Plan Year as set forth in the table below:  
Maximun Plan Payment Par  
Plan Year  
1996 $ 1.00  
4997 $7.25  
1998 $ 1.50  
Accordingly, ihe maximum Profit Sharing Plan  
payment fo an eligible participant for the  
corresponding Plan Year (assuming the  
maximum of 2,000 eligible Plan hours} would be  
as set forth in the table below:  
Maximun Profit Sharing  
Plan Year ——-Pian Payment __  
1996 $2,000  
1998 $3,000  
The amount determined by multiplying the sum of  
all eligible participants’ eligible Pian hours during  
ihe Plan Year by the Plan payment per eligible  
Ptan hour for that Plan Year determined in  
accordance with Subsection 4b(2) above shail be  
the amount made available to the Profit Sharing  
Plan.  
### APPENDIX P  
C.  
The Profit Sharing Pian payment for each eligible  
panicipant shall be determined by multiplying his/her  
eligible Plan hours during the Plan Year by the Plan  
payment per eligible Plan hour for that Plan Year  
determined In accordance with Subsection 4b{2) above.  
Any Profit Sharing Plan payment determined in  
accordance with the Plan shall be disiribuied fo each  
eligible participant in a single payment, separate from the  
eligible participant's paycheck, during the second fiscal  
quarter of the year following the Plan ‘Year or, at the  
option of the Company, may be distributed ai that time in  
the form of an equivalent amount of common stock of  
Acme Metals, Incorporated.  
Any payment from the Pian shall not be considered  
gamings tor any other purpose, except as subject to  
applicable statutory taxes on income and is subject to the  
provisions regarding Union dues under the Basic Labor  
Agreement between the parties, and no part of such  
payment shail be included In the Standard Hourly Wage  
Scale Rate of any or used in the calculation of  
any other pay, allowance, or benetit.  
5. Semple Caiculation (Example - 1996 Plan Year)  
a.  
To Determine the Amount Made Available to the Profit  
Sharing Plan  
Pre-Tax, Pre-Plan Income af the Company = $27 Million  
10% of Pre-Tax, Pre-Plan Income of the Company =  
$2.7 Million  
Total Eligible Plan Hours of All Eligible =  
3 Million  
### APPENDIX P  
($2.7 million divided by 3 million = $.90)  
Plan Payment Per Eligibla Plan Hour adjustment)  
=a $.90  
Plan Payment Per Eligibie Plan Hour (after adjusiment for  
maximum of $1.00 in effect for 1996 Plan Year) = §.90  
(3 Million x $.90 = $2.7 Million)  
Amount Made Available to the Profil Sharing Plan = $2.7  
Million  
b. To Determine an Eligible Participant's Protit Sharing  
Plan Payment  
Pian Payment Per Eligible Plan Hour = adjustment lor  
maximum) = $.90  
Eligible Participant's Eligible Plan Hours During Plan Year  
= 1,980  
1,980 x $.90 = $1782 Distributed to Eligible Participant  
6. Administration of the Plan  
The Plan will be administered by the Company in accordance with  
the Plan’s terms, and the cost of adminisiration shall be the  
responsibility of the Company.  
The Union, through its Negotiating Committea Chairman or his  
designee, shall have ihe right, upon proper to review any  
calculations under the Plan for the purpose of verilying its  
pertormance.  
In the event that further verification of Plan periormance is  
requesied by the Union Negotiating Committee Chairman, the  
parties, by mutual agreement, shall select a qualified independent  
205 e  
   
### APPENDIX P  
7,  
third party to verify any perlormance calculations. In the evant  
that a discrepancy exisis, said third party shall report to the  
parlies said discrepancy. The Company Chaiman and  
Union Chalsman of the respective Negotiating Committees shall  
then, in good faith, raach agreement regarding the discrapancy or,  
in the event that they cannot resolve a dispute, either party may  
submit such dispute to final binding arbitration before an arbitrator  
mutually agreeable to both parlias. All costs Incurred as a result  
of a review by a third party or by arbitration shall be borne equally  
by the parties.  
No Profit Sharing Pian payments shall be made until the  
completion of any audit elected and resolution of any  
dispute described in the preceding paragraph.  
Duration of the Plan  
This Plan shall ramain in efiact tor the Plan Years 1998, 1997 and  
1998.  
Rulings and Consents  
The estabishment of this Plan is subject to tlhe Company's  
required determinations and rulings, if any, from the  
Internal Revenue Service. H said determinations and rulings ave  
required and are no! obtalned, then the Company and the Union  
will negotiate 4 comparable plan which does not require IRS  
detarminations or rutings.  
Likewise, the Company and the Union will joinily requesi an  
opinion trom the Wage-Hour Adminisirator of the U.S. Department  
of Labor declaring that the Plan ig a “dona fide Profit Sharing  
Plan* under Section 7(a)(3){b) of the Falr Labor Standards Act.  
in the event thal the opinion ol the Wage-Houwr Administrator is  
ihat ihe Pian Is not a “bona fide Profit Sharing Plan,” then the  
partias will meet promptly to modify the Plan to requirements jor  
establishing and maintaining a "bona fide Profit Sharing Plan”  
206  
   
### APPENDIX P  
9.  
prior to the distribution af any payments under the Plan.  
Miscellaneous  
The Company shall have the to recover  
overpayments and correct underpayments.  
An employee who believes that he or she was eligible for  
and entitled to (but was nat paid} a Profit Sharing Plan  
payment for a Pian Year for which a Profit Sharing Plan  
payment is determinad to be payable under ihe Plan, or  
an eligible participant who believes that the Profit  
Plan Payment he or she received was not correctly  
calculated in accordance with the Plan, may initiate such  
claim directly into Step 3 of the grievance procedure in  
accordance with the grievance and arbitration provisions  
of the applicable Labor Agreament. Such grievance must  
be fited not tater than thirty (30) days following the  
distribution date of the Sharing Plan paymertts for  
thai Plan Year.  
Ail Pian daterminations for a Plan Year for which no Profit  
Sharing Plan payment is payable under the Plan shail  
become final ninety (90) days after Ina Union Negotiating  
Committee Chairman has been provided the information  
$61 fonh in the jourth paragraph of Section 1 if (i) no atecdit  
has been elected in with Section 6 or, if  
elected, has been competed, and (ii) there is no dispute  
then pending.  
Al] Plan and the Profit Sharing Plan  
distribution for a Pian Year in which a Profit Sharing Plan  
payment is payable under tha Pian shal! become final  
ninely (90) days after the date on which the Profd Sharing  
Plan distribution was made if (7) there is no dispute then  
pending and (ti) the Company has not therelofore given  
notice in writing of an error.  
207  
### APPENDIX P  
8.  
In ine case of the death ol an eligible participant, any  
Profil! Sharing Plan payment which he or she was  
olherwise entitled to under the terns of the Plan shall be  
paid to his or her when, or as soon as possible  
after, such Profit Sharing Plan distribution is made, once  
such estate is identified and legally verified.  
### APPENDIX Q  
### APPENDIX G  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING VEBA  
August 31, 1999  
Jack Parton, Director  
District 31, USWA  
720 W, Chicago Avenue  
Room 21%  
East Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
During these negotiations, the Union expressed concern over future  
payments, by ihe Company, of health care benefits for despite the  
Company's history of providing such benefits in the past. The Union  
proposed the establishment of a dedicated trust, in the form of a Voluntary  
Employee Beneticiary Association (VEBA). Accordingly, the Company  
(Acme Stee! Company's and Acme Packaging Riverdale, ltl.  
operations} agrees lo establish a dedicated fund for the purpose of  
payment of medical and life insurance benefits for retirees,  
and for pre-funding the Company's obligations for current and iuture  
tatiress. This fund will start: (a) following the first full quarter (after the  
lirst marketable coil is produced at the propased new slab caster/hot strip  
mill facility) that the Cornpany achieves a positive net income; or {b) if the  
Board of Directors of Acme Meials, Incorporated decides not to go forward  
with (he proposed new slab caster/hot strip mill facility, follawing the first  
quarter that the Company achieves a pasitive net income. The VEBA wilt  
be funded over time, taking into account the interest in having  
flexibility in removing high-cost debt ftom the balance sheet and the  
Union's interest in addressing its concarn by having the Company pre-fund  
209  
### APPENDIX @  
the VEBA and provide a security Interest in Company assets. The fund  
will be stated using the following concepts:  
1. Payment of current liabitity will be made out of the fund,  
that the amount of cash benefit paid in  
any year shall not exceed the amount of cash  
contributlons made io the fund in such year by ihe  
Company.  
2. Annual contribution of stock and/or cash.  
In the event that the parlies are unable to agree on a funding formula,  
either party may refer such dispute to “final offer’ arbdiiralion,  
utilizing the arbitrator specifled in Appendix Z ("Reopener Negotiations and  
Interest Arbitration’), The arbitrator will consider the Company's financial  
health (level of debt, liquidity, profitability) and the Company‘s commiiment  
to pre-fund its obligation for retirees medical benelits.  
Very truly yours,  
G. J. Shope  
Vica President-Human Resources  
Acme Stes! Company  
### CONFIRMED:  
Jack Parton, Director  
Negotiating Committee  
United Sieelworkers of América  
210  
### APPENDIX F-1  
### APPENDIX R-1  
### EMPLOYMENT SECURITY PLAN  
### A. EFFECTIVE DATE  
1, The effective date of this Employment Security Plan {the  
“Plan”} shall be the first day of the transitional period (as  
defined in appendix CC, the “Memorandum of  
Agreement Conceming Transitional Period Matters") for  
gligthte employees as defined in Section C balow.  
### B. GUARANTEE  
1, Employees covered by this Employment Security Pian  
will not be laid off from the plant during the term of this  
agreement except in the case of a disaster or as  
otherwise set forth below. If a disaster occurs resulting  
in the layoff af employees, the Pian will be terminated.  
For the purpose of this Agreement, a disaster is defined  
as:  
a. The permanent shutdown of the plant.  
b, A petition in bankruptcy for reorganization or  
liquidation is filed, and the Cour finds that is  
necessary to reject this Agreament and issues a  
order under the bankruptcy Jaws authorizing  
such rejection.  
a. Severe financial difficulties short of bankruptcy  
filing. Such financial difficulties must represent  
a clear and present danger jo the Company's  
viability. Disputes concerning this paragraph  
211  
### APPENDIX A-1  
   
shall be Subject !o arbitration pursuant fo a  
special emergency procedure to be agreed upan  
by the parties. Termination can occur under this  
paragraph only by mutual of the  
parties or upon a finding by the arbilrator that  
the financial difficully asserted by the Company  
dees in fact represent 4 dear and presen!  
danger to the Company’s continued viability.  
In addition, in the event of a strike or work stoppage by  
employees covered by this Plan, the Plan will be  
suspended for the duration of such strike or work  
stoppage,  
in addition, in the event of a breakdown, or a repair  
downtum, or an outage which is expected to last? for one  
(1} full schedule week or more, the Plan may, by mutual  
agreement of the parties, be suspended for aflected  
employees only for the duration of the breakdown,  
cdowntum orf outage.  
For the purpose of this Agreement, and except as  
provided above, employment security is defined as the  
opportunity to earn forty (40) hours of pay (inctuding  
hours pald for bul not worked, work opportunities declined  
by the employee, disciplinary tina olf, time off for Union  
business, rétiel from duty pursvant to the Companys  
alcohol and drug poticy, and absenteeism - but  
the premium pay portion of overtime, Sunday and holiday  
premiums} during any payroll week. An employee on  
approved leave of absence or medically laid off during  
any payrolt week shall be considered as having been  
provided smployment security during that week, recogniz-  
ing that the pay (if any} that Such an employes is entitied  
to receive while on approved leave of absence or medical  
layoff will be that provided by applicable taw or the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement, nol the earning  
opportunity set forth in this Plan.  
212  
### APPENDIX R-1  
5.  
   
Effective utilization of employees is a key element of this  
Agreement. Itls recognized that the provisions of B4 above  
present the Company with changed circumstances and  
problems than had existed prior to the Employment Security  
Plan when dealing with shorn duration Tack of work” type  
Giivalions that occur after work schedules have been  
posted. in the past, such situations often resulted in  
employees being "sent home” or in the ineffective utilization  
ol amployees dua to traditional assignment barriers or  
restrictions. Moreover, the provisions of B4 above also  
present the Company wih changed circumstances and  
problems when dealing with situations where, bacause of  
anticipated operating levels or other relevant factors at the  
time work schedules for a particular week aro posted, an  
amployee’s “opportunity” described in B4 can only be  
partially but not fully salisiied on the job os Jobs thal the  
amployee is éntifed to via the relevant provisions of the  
Labor Agreement. An example of this situation would be an  
operating level that would resull in an employee being  
scheduled for only thirty-two (32) hours on the job(s) that  
he/she is entitled to via the relevant provisions of the Labor  
Agreement during a particular payroll week and none of the  
Inclusions/olfsetes/excepiians described in Section B are  
applicable. The changed circumstances presented by B4  
above require tha parties to strike a new balance with  
respect fo their needs when dealing with such situations,  
using the following principles:  
a. The provisions of B4 ara not intended to provide  
pay for time not worked or to require the ineffective  
utilization of employees in onder to satisfy this  
guaranties,  
b. {1) {n light of BSf below, the provisions of  
Article Vit, Section 6, of the Agreement  
cancerning assignment or te-assignment to a  
job of at laast equal job class shall not apply  
213  
### APPENDIX R-1  
tO assignments or re-assignments made or  
offered to salisty the provisions of (8){4)  
above.  
{2} Production employees may be utilized to assist  
maintenance employees during situations  
contemplated in this (BY5) in accordance with  
& mutually agreed to list of examples  
developed by the Security /  
Productivity Committes." the following general  
guldélines will be used to develop an initial  
mutually agreed to fist that will be completed  
on or betors November +, 1993:  
Visually inspecting equipment,  
lubrication tevels, and fluid levels and  
report items thal require attantion.  
. Making minor  adjusimenta to  
equipment, fubricatlon, and  
adultions,  
° Performing and/or assisting on  
changeovers (e.9., falls, culfers) where  
reasonable,  
Operaling hoists and remole control  
¢ranes in conjunction with maintenance  
work.  
a Observing equipment and monitoring  
davices or acting as a safety person in  
conjunction with mainienarice work.  
214  
### APPENDIX R-1  
   
4 Cleaning work (¢-9., parts, equipment,  
area) of ground seve! painting work in  
conjunction with maintenance work,  
The sataty of employees (both direct  
and indirect} is a primary and  
unalterable principle.  
The desired effect is to affactively utilize such  
employees while providing assistance that  
enables mainienance personnel to expand  
their impact and reduce equipment downtime,  
Additional items that are consistent with these  
guidelines may be added to this list by mutual  
agreement on an ongoing basis. No incentive  
pian wil be changed as a result of  
implementing production - assist -mainienance  
pursuant to this BSh2. The provisions of this  
are not intended fe apply to or sliminate  
any pré@-existing skuations where production  
amployees assist maintenance employees.  
That are assigned to perform jobs or  
tasks which are compatible with their skills, physical  
capabilities and qualifications.  
During such situations, affected employees may be  
elfectively utilized to fill jobs or perform tasks in  
their division. Such assignments shall not be made  
in a manner that would deny another employment  
security eligible employee a temporary promotion  
that te was e@niitied to under the of the  
Agreement. Such employees will not be assigned  
215  
### APPENDIX R-1  
   
to fill jobs in other divisions during such  
situations, but may be assigned to general plant  
Cleanup or snow removal work.  
Nelther the Company nor the Union will use or  
refer to in the grievance/ashitration procedure  
any of the work assigned pursuant to the above  
@$ a justification of work exclusivity or non-  
exclusivity.  
Employees assigned work pursuant to the above  
will be paid the standard hourly wage fate  
{including incenilva pay when applicable under  
the terms of the subject incentive plan) of their  
scheduled job or the job to which they are  
assigned, whichever is greater, for the duration  
of ihe assignment, The manhours of employees  
assigned under ihe above circumstances to a  
job covered by a manhour control based  
incentive plan shall not be charged to or paid  
under that plan to the extent that such manhours  
exceed the standard manhours allowed under  
that plan. It ia intant of this Subsection BS to  
provide the opportunity for an employee to earn  
ai least the standard hourly wage rate (job dass  
tate} of the job that the employee is entitled to  
via the relevant provisions of the Labor  
Agreement during that payrall week for each  
hour worked by that employee to satisly the  
“opportunity” described in B4 above during that  
payroll week.  
Employees assigned such wark shall accept  
such work unless:.  
{7} The employee requests to be released  
and tha Company determines that his  
216  
### APPENOIX F-1  
7.  
   
services are nol necessary for  
operational reasons, in which case the  
employee will be released and such time  
will be offsei against the B4  
of  
{2) The employes is unable to perform any  
available work because of a valid  
medical restriction, in which case such  
time wil be offset againsi ihe B4  
guarantee; or  
(3) The employes decines the work  
opportunity for a valid safety and health  
reason as defined in Article IX, Seciion  
3, of the Agreement, in which case he  
shall be obligated ta accept other work.  
(4) An employee who is released pursuant  
to B5g will not be charged for an  
absence undar the absenteelsm policy.  
Dispute Resolution  
Disputes conceming the day-to-day application  
of the above principles shall be initially referred  
to the “Employment Security/Productivity  
Committee" for resolution. Such disputes that  
cannot be resolved therein alter reasonabie  
discussion may be initiated directly into Step 3  
of the grievance procedure, thereafter subject to  
further pracessing in accordance with Article V  
of the Agreement.  
An employes who, except for his eligibility for the  
Employment Security Plan, would have been “non-  
scheduled" will be assigned to other work (either  
traditional of non-traditional assignments) during such  
217  
### APPENDIX R-1  
period in order to satisfy the described in  
64 above. “Non-scheduled,” as used herein, means not  
scheduled for work for a period which is known at the  
outset to be of at feast ane (1) full payroll week's  
duration, bul no more than four {4) full consecutive  
payroll weeks’ duration, due to lack of work on the job(s)  
that he is entitted to via the relevant provisions of the  
Labor Agreement. This B7 shall not apply to an  
emptoyee laid off from the Plant pursuant to Paragraph  
E of the “Seniority Rules,” which is a matter dealt with in  
Sectlon D of the Plan. An employee assigned to other  
work pursuant to (his B7 will be paid the standard hourly  
wage rale {job class rate) of his regularly assigned job or  
the established rale of pay for the job to which he is  
assigned, whichever Is greater, for each such hour  
worked by that employee to satisfy the “opportunity” set  
forth In B4 above. The understandings set forth in B5a,  
B5b({2), B5c, BSe, BSg, and B5h above shall also apply  
to assignments made pursuant to this B7, addition,  
such assignments not be made in a manner that  
would deny another employment security sligible  
employees a tamporary promotion that he was entitled to  
under the terms of the Labor Agreement.  
### Cc. ELIGIBILITY  
1  
Employees eligible tor employment security are:  
a. Alt employees hired on or before February 11,  
3993 who are active employees as of the  
effective date of the Plan.  
b. All employees hired on or belore February 11,  
1993 who are on layott ar on approved leave of  
absence as of the olfective date of the Plan,  
alter they réturn to active employment.  
218  
### APPENDIX R-1  
3,  
All employees hired between February 12, 1993  
and August 31, #993 (both inclusive) and all  
employees hired for a trade or craft job during  
the transitional) period as follows:  
(1) Such employees who are active  
employees during the first full schedule  
week following the last day of the tran-  
sitional parlod shall than become éligible  
for security.  
(2) Such employees who are on layoff oF on  
approved leave of absence during the  
first full schedule week following the last  
day of the period shall  
become eligible for employment security  
alter thay retum to active employment.  
All active employees hired after ihe end of the  
transitional period who accumulate one {1} year  
at continuous service; provided, however, (hat  
any such employees who are on layolf or on  
approved leave of absence at the time they  
accumutale one {1} year of continuous service  
shall not be eligible for employment security until  
such time as they return to active employment.  
Employees eligible for employment security must continue  
to fully satisfy the terms and conditions of employment,  
Under the Plan, there is no option for employees to elect  
voluntary layoits,  
Any employee in tha Employment Security Pool  
who refuses to accept a jab or perform an  
assignment described below in Section D, except for a  
salety and health reason as defined in Ariicie IX, Section  
3 of the Agreement, shall immediately jose his  
219  
### APPENDIX R-1  
   
employment security status.  
a.  
Such employee shall thereupon be placed in  
special leave of absence status commencing with  
his and terminating on the earlier of: (1)  
the date the employes would have been recalled  
pursuant to the Seniority Rules had he been lald  
off. or (2} the date the amployee would hava  
broken service under Article XVI, Section 8 had  
he been tald off.  
On termination of the special leave of absence,  
the employee will be recalled in accordance with  
his seniority rights, provided his continuous  
service has not been broken,  
While in special leave of absence status, an  
employee's siatus under the Program of  
Insurance Senefits wil be as forth In  
Paragraph 9.18 thereln. Such an employee shail  
not be eligible for SUB. An employes in special  
leave of absence status shail continue to accrue  
continucus service only se long as he would have  
been on layoff, subject to the provisions of Article  
XVI, Section 8 and the Pansion Agreement. lf  
such an employae is daterminad to be eligible for  
unemployment benefits by the “state sysiem,”  
then his special leave will terminate and the  
empicyes will be required to Immediately retum  
to the Pool and any failure to return of refusal  
upon return to accept a job or perform an  
assignment from the Pool will rasutt In a break in  
continuous senmicp and iermination = of  
employment with the Company,  
This special leave of absence option described  
Immediately above shall not be available to any  
employee whe lsin tralning following placement  
220  
### APPENDIX A-1  
in the Pool,  
### PLACEMENT  
1.  
Outing the term of the Agreement, an eligibla employes  
who would otherwise be (ax! off from the plant wilt be  
in the Poo!, Employees assigned to the Pool will  
b6 utilized in a vanaty of ways at (he Riverdale Plant or,  
if necessary, at the Chicago Plant (see assignment  
examples referenced below). The seniority provisions of  
the Agreemeni shall continue to apply except as  
expressly modified in this Agreement. The "Employment  
Security/Productivity shail jointly develop a  
procedure whereby basic seniority principles will be  
applied to assignments from the Fool, with the  
understanding that any problems arising from application  
of the procedure witl be rasoved by the "Employment  
Security/Productivity Committee.”  
a. Assignment examples:  
(1) Traditional guch as:  
(a) Temporary vacancies - including  
vacancies thal would otherwise  
be Iillad by overtime.  
(b> Work that otherwise could be  
contracted out.  
(c} Vacancies that remain after the  
bidding procedura has been  
exhausted {hat would otherwise  
be filled by 4 new hire.  
(2) Non-traditional assignments, such as:  
224  
### APPENDIX R-1  
   
{a} Training and Retraining  
(ob) Customer Service Assignments  
{c} Problem Solving Teams/Task  
Forces  
Training Insiructors/F acilitators  
(8) Work Redesign Teams  
{A} Productivity/Cost Reduction  
Teams  
For purposes of assignment of employees in the Poot, the  
parties agree that will only be assigned to  
pertorm jobs or tasks which are compatible with their  
skills, physical capabilities, and qualifications consistent  
with Paragraph 01.  
The following shall gover rates of pay in association with  
assignments to the Poo! and assignments from the Pool:  
(a)  
(b)  
The “rale of pay*® applicable to the job thal the  
employee last held {was regulary assigned to}  
Prior to his/her placement in the Pool shall be  
paid ta an employee assigned to non-traditional  
work or training. “Rate of pay,” as used herein,  
shall be the Appendix A job class rate Hl that job  
is a non-incentive job or, if that job is an  
incentive job, shail include the average incentive  
éarnings applicable ta that job during the week  
last worked by the employee prior to his/her  
placement in the Pool.  
While essigned to a Iradktional job, an employes  
shall be paid the higher of:  
{1} the established rate of pay for the job  
periormed; or  
(2) the “rate of pay’ calculated in  
accordance with Dia) above.  
222  
### APPENDIX A-1  
F.  
4, The provisions of the Protection Plan (EPP) will  
continue as specified in iha Basic Labor Agreément.  
### SAFEGUARDS  
If the Plan is terminated during the term of the Agreement, the  
SUB Plan shail be deemed to be 100% funded as of the date of  
such termination, and the Company shall ba required to begin to  
accrue liability and make cash contribulians as required by the  
SUB Plan.  
### PROCEDURES  
1. The parties and commit themselves (to the  
immediate and ongoing implementation of the Plan by  
establishing the following structure:  
a. A Joint Labor/Management Committee called the  
"Employment Security/Productivity  
will be established at the plani within GO days  
fram the effective date of this Agreement. This  
Committee shall consist of an equa) number ol  
Union and Company members. The Union  
designates their representatives to include: an  
Intemational Union Staff Representative, the  
Local Union President, and any additional  
resource individuals as may be necessary io  
ensure implementation ai the plant level. The  
Company will be designated by  
the Vice President of Human Aesources.  
b. The Committee shall also be responsible jor  
investigating, determining, and implementing  
produciivity, efficiency and cost reduction  
improvement plans and options. The Committee  
will also address such issues as¢  
223  
### APPENDIX Ri-1  
trainingretraining of employees, and ways of  
methods to promote and accommodate a more  
sell-directed workforce team concep! The  
Committee will meet on an as-needed basis, but  
not less than biweekly.  
¢. Employee members of the Commities will be  
compensated by the Company, limited to the  
lime actually spéni in such Committee activities.  
d. Malters related to contracting out will be  
addressed by a separaia commities.  
### G. GENERAL PROVISIONS  
1.  
Excepi as expressly provided by this Agreement or in  
rules approved by the Emptoyment Security/Productivity  
Committee or Review Board, the application of the Plan  
shall not interfere with, limit, or in any way adversely  
affect the rights or obligations of ihe Union, any  
or the Company.  
Jobs to which employees in the Pool are assigned under  
Sectlon D of ihe Plan shall ba considered “temporary  
vacancies.” The filling of such & vacancy shall not alter  
an employee's recall tights. Experience in such  
assignments shall nol be used as a presumption of  
greater in favor of a junior employes who bids for  
any permanent vacancy on such a job unless the  
assignment was made available to and relused by the  
senior employes.  
### H. APPEAL PAOCESS AND REVIEW BOARD  
It Is understood thal during the term of this Agreement, there may  
be disputes as to the intent of the pariles aq fo this Agreement.  
224  
### APPENDIX R-1  
Therefore, a Review Board shall be established to foster full  
cooperation and implementation. The membership of the Review  
Board will be the Company and Union Chaipersons of the  
Negotiation Committee. The Board will meel on an as-needed  
basis, but not less than once per calendar quarter. The Board  
may develop appropriate and mechanisms to ansure  
that the parties are satisfying their joint obligations and that their  
actions are consistent with the full intent of this Agreement. In  
the event that the Review Board (ails to rasolve a dispute, either  
party may submil such dispute to final binding arbitration.  
### I. NO BREAK IN CONTINUOUS SERVICE  
As long ag the Pian remains in effect, for purposes of the  
seniority provisions of the Agreement only, no employment  
security eligible employee {other than an employee in "special  
leave of absence") of an employee who is laid off from the plant  
as Ol the effective date of the Plan shall break continuous service  
because of absences due to layoff during the tenn of the  
Agreement.  
225  
### _ . APPENDIXA-2 |  
=- = — =«  
™er> wg  
### APPENDIX R-2  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON PRODUCTIVITY  
The Campany and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) believe  
that 2 sirong and viable company is one of the foundations for  
guaranteeing employment security, superior working conditions, and a  
high standard of living for the plant's employees and  
Although the Union, via this Memorandum, has accepted a rea) and  
substantial responsiblity to actively work with the Company In effecting the  
matiers set forth herein, it is early understood that this Memorandum  
shall nol be consirved as enlarging the Company's existing nights with  
respeci to such matters; nor shall it be construed to diminish the  
abillty to ultimately exercise such rights.  
The Company agrees to provide employment security at this plant In  
relyrn for the Union's agreement io participate in substantially improving  
productivity, decreasing manhours per ton, ahd increasing operational  
effectiveness. No employment security eligible employee will be iaid off  
during the term of the Agreament, as provided in the Employment Security  
Pian. Manpower will be decreased, only by attrition. Employees will be  
fully utilized through a varlety of mutually agreed-to assignment  
alternatives and will be appropriately campensated for their effarts.  
The USWA recognizes that the Company is committed to and has already  
embarked upon a capital irvestment plan in excess of $200 miltion to help  
reach the above godis; however, investman alone will not ensure  
compatitive, high-quality products and superior working conditions. Intense  
International and domestic competition demands aggressive steps to allow  
Acme (to quickly became competitive in a world market so that the  
Company will be able to altract funds and be able to guarantee  
its employees the quality of file thay deserve, The two parties agree that  
evan though Acme employees have made great contributions to improve  
productivity, Union and Management are committed to increasing their ef-  
226  
   
### APPENOIX Ai-2  
fort to increase productivity to meet our joint goal of continuous  
improvement.  
In addition to capital Investment, significant gains in productivity can be  
made through reducing the workforce; but, it Is in the best interests of both  
parties that worklorce reductions be accomplished through attrition. The  
Union recognizes that the Company has recently made substanial  
reductions in the Riverdale Plant’s non-bargaining unit worklorce without  
proportional reductions in its bargaining unit workforce, and that the  
Company's efforts to stall the Riverdale Plant's non-bargaining unit  
workiorce as leanly and efficiently as possible will continue on an ongoing  
basis. In view of the implementation of the Employment Security Pian,  
manpower reductions resuliant from this Memorandum affecting eligible  
bargaining unit employees will be managed through atirition. The parties  
further agree that manpower reduction at the Fiverdale Plant will have an  
equitable impact upon bargaining unit and non-bargalning unit employees.  
In addition, the parties funher agree thai as part of the “Employment  
Securty/Productivity Committea” {releranced in the “Employment Security  
the Union will be free lo raise and the Company agrees to discuss  
and seriously consider additional reductions in the non-bargaining unit  
employes worklorce. The Company agrees to provide the Union with  
requested information regarding the non-bargalning unii workforce relevant  
to the subject of manning and manpower reductions.  
However, Union and Management are in agreemeni that, in the process of  
achieving this goal, no undue burden will be placed on the employees.  
The parties believe that the contributions of all employees will result in  
achievement of our productivity goals and all employees must work  
together to find and implement ways of improving operations, making  
effactiva labor-saving Investmenis, and fully and flexibly utilizing the  
employees’ talents and abilities, and malntaining the worklorca by recalling  
or hiting employees when necessary to perform the work.  
Acme Management recognizes that this task presents a major challenge  
its uimost efforts and that more is required than sacrifices on the  
part of the employees. Therefore, management is committed to ensuring  
that there are no abuses in overtime, no adverse effects to production,  
and that the quality of worklife for the employees is mainiained and  
  
   
### APPENDIX R-2  
improved. in summary, the USWA Leadarship and Acme Management  
recognize that total commitment by all employees, from top management  
to the shop floor, will be necessary to ensure that Acme becomes and  
coniinues to be a strong and innovative Company, not bound by the  
past - but dedicated to innovative approaches to reach our Joint goals.  
The USWA is committed to work with the Company to identity and  
Implement actions to improve productivity, and the Company recognizes  
and is willing to offer incentives to achieve productivity. The pariles  
believe that these commitments will serve lo strengthen and foster the  
viabillty of the Company and the Union.  
The USWA recognizes that to assure employment security, substandal  
productivity improvements must be made to reduce casts and lo énable  
Acme to operate with increased effeciiveness. The parties shall pursue  
and Implement new approaches to enhance effectiveness, such as:  
ning work; restructuring jobs; job combinations; Increasing  
assignment flexibllity; modifying restrictive work rules and practices; and  
providing flexibility in and procedures to facilitate  
productivity improvaments. The above is not Intended to be all inclusive  
or Intended to restrict the parties from belng Innovailve and creative In  
finding othar ways to improve effectiveness and productivity. The partles  
realize that such improvements are not to place unreasonable  
workioad burdens on any employes. These principles shall also apply in  
the operation and staffing of new and changed facilities’equipment  
faguiting from capital invasimen!. The parties agree that substantial  
productivity improvements can most effectively be achieved by a process  
of full participation and agreement.  
To ensure implementation pursuant to this producilvky agreement, the  
following procedures will be used before the Company exercises iis  
rights under the Basic Labor Agreement, to implament while al that same  
time, protecting the Union/employees tram abuse:  
* Communication of the Company's intent in  
writing to lake necessary action will be made to  
the appropriate Union representatives.  
228  
   
### APPENDIX R-2  
* The appropriate Company/Union representatives  
will meet to identify and discuss any issues  
and/or concerns associated with the Company's  
intent to take necessary action,  
, After notification and a review of the facts, the  
Company will make a decision based on the  
findings.  
The joint “Employment Committee” referenced inthe  
“Employment Security Plan" will establish yearly productivity goals based  
on an annual review of attrition history and projected attrition. Each year,  
these goals will ba forwarded to the "Employment Security Plan* Review  
Board for their review. If progress is not considered sufficient, a visit will  
be made to ihe plani to gain a better understarkding and take corractive  
action, if necessary.  
Sett-Direction  
All employees must accept more responsibility for their individual work  
performance.  
The bargaining unit position of Crew Coordinator shall be established and  
implemented. Crew Coordinators will assign, instruct, coordinate, and  
work with crews, a3 well a9 paricipate in planning and decision making  
with supervision. A three job classification additive shall be paid,  
Selection and performance raview procedures shall be adopled by the  
Security/Productivity Committee" to assure Crew Coordinator  
atfectivaness.  
The Company and the Union agree to utilize ihe self-directed work team  
concept in the proposed new slab caster/hot strip mill facility and io  
promote, accommodate and expand the use of sell-diractead work teams  
in olher areas of ihe Riverdale Plant. in conjunction with the  
introduction/exparsion af the self-directed work team concept, the partias  
agree to promote the use of skill-based compensation and innovative  
gainsharing type plans in such areas instead of traditional narrow focus  
jobs and traditional incentive plans.  
229  
### APPENDIX R-2  
Training end Retraining  
ht is the obligation of the Company io provide training necessary to  
achieve Ihe successtul implementation of these productivity provisions,  
including the necessary training to assure the replacement depth  
to oftectively atalf plant aperations. The Union will participates fully in the  
develapment and implementation of training programs and procedures.  
As in the past, the parties will continue to solict assistance from federal,  
stale, and loca) govemment authorities to aid in the implemaniation of this  
Agreement.  
Benefits  
The parties foresee that full implementation of the provisions of the  
Employment Security/Productivily Agreement will result in significant  
banelits to both the employees and the Company. These benelits inctude:  
1. Employment security for of the Company.  
2, Subsiantial gains in productivity, decreased manhours per  
lon and Increased operational eflectiveness.  
3. Reduction of excessive overtime.  
4. Retrieving work ihat would otherwise be contracted out to  
fully utilize the employment security poal.  
5. Increase the viability of Ihe Union and the Company.  
6. Increase employee job satisfaction and pride.  
7, Alirition inducements.  
8. increase promotional opportunities and job levels for  
many employees.  
9, Union and employes involvement in the Company  
230  
### APPENDIX —A-2  
10,  
1t.  
process and increased responsibility for  
individual work performance.  
A Productivity Plan which recognizes  
measurable productivity improvements resulting from  
implementation of this Agreement and resulting in  
monetary incentives for all employses.  
A Profit Sharing Plan which allows employees to be  
rewarded for thalr contributions io improved productivity.  
231  
   
### APPENDIX A-3  
1.  
### APPENDIX R-3  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### ON ATFAITION INDUCEMENTS  
It is agreed that a special severance allowance will be provided  
io employees. Eligible employees are those whose  
position has been stiminaled via a “mutual agreement position  
elimination’ in accordance with 4{a} below and those who are  
identified (by agreemani of the focal parties} ae being sligible  
pursuant to 4(b) below. Transitional employees shall nol be  
eligible for special severance allowance,  
Payments under the program are not contingent, directly or  
Indirectly, upon the employee's retirement. An employee who  
elects ta receive a lump sum special severance allowance  
payment will be paid same within fony-five (45) days following his  
eifective dale of termination, or he may deler receipt of such  
payment until January of the following calendar year. Banafits  
under the program may be paid out to an eligible employes  
of that employee's eligibility to reilre and receive  
immediate pansion beneflts.  
Special tump sum severance allowance payments will be made in  
accordance with the plant continuous service of the eligible  
employee offered such an inducement according to the following  
schedule:  
232  
### APPENDIX R-3  
### COMPLETEO YEARS OF SPECIAL SEVERANCE  
### PLANT CONTINUOUS SERVICE ALLOWANCE PAYMENT  
20 OR MORE $9,600  
18-19 $ 7,200  
10-14 $ 4,500  
5-9 $ 3,000  
t-4 $ 1,500  
4. (a) Baginning with the effective date of the Agreement,  
special severance allowance payments may be olfered al  
each plant for mutual agreement position eliminations.  
“Mutual agreement position eliminations,” as used herein,  
are those which the Company could not unifaisraity effect  
pursuant to the exercise of its rights and which required  
the agreement of the Local Union to effect. Ut is antici-  
pated tha! such mutual agreement position eliminations  
will be handled via the "Memorandum of Undersianding  
on Productivity” or via local agreements. The number of  
such special severance allowances offered at the plant  
during the tem of the Agrasment shall noi exceed the  
number of such mutual agreament position eliminations  
implemented al the plant during the term of the  
Agreement.  
(b) Remaining speciat severance allowances may be offered  
ai each plant by mutual agreemeni of ihe parties.  
Employess eligible therefore will be identified by mutual  
agreament of the local parties.  
5. An employes otherwise eligible for a severance allowance  
pursuant to the provisions of Article XV will not be silgile to  
receive both a special severance allowance and @ severance  
atlowance pursuant to Article XV. Such an employee may choose  
either the (Artide XV) severance allowance or this special  
severance allowance.  
&. For employees voluntarily terminating under this attrition  
Zag  
   
### APPENDIX R-3  
inducement program who are also eligible for immediate pension  
benefits, their pension and special pension payment wil] be  
calculated in accordance with the lerms of the Pension Agreement  
for up to tha date of termination and will commence  
payment in accordance with the terms of the Pension Agreement.  
Thé amount of this special severance allowance will not be  
deducted from the Pensian Benefit.  
Any payments made under this attrition inducement program may  
nol exceed the equivalent of twice the employee's annual W-2  
wages during the 52 week period immediately preceding the  
employee's termination of service.  
All olfers of special severance allowances to employees in order  
to induce the termination of their employment musi be mada in  
such a manner to ensure that the olfered employees make fully  
informed and totaly voluntary decisions concerning their  
amployment status,  
The Employment Secunty/Praductivity Committee will approve any  
additional guidelines necessary for the proper implementation and  
administration of this program.  
234  
   
### APPENDIZ S  
### APPENDIX S  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### ON  
### COOPERATIVE PARTNERSHIP  
A, Purpose and intent  
The Vnion and the Company {i.e., Acme Stee! Company's and Acme  
Packaging Corporation's Riverdaie, ill, operations) agree that their goal is  
to atlain the objectives sel forth in this Memorandum, They also agree  
that their goats can best and perhaps only be accomplished il decision  
making authority is shared at all levels of the Accardingly, the  
parties have agreed to work toward the objective of establishing a  
strategic partnership.  
The purpose of this Memorandum is lo a framework for Union  
and employes participation in jcint decision making; for full and  
continuing access by appropriate Union representatives to all books,  
records, and information relevant to the pumoses and objectives of this  
Memorandum; and for the establishment of & comprehensive training  
and @ducation program, all as further described harain.  
Further, the parties recogniza that the changes contemplated by this  
Memorandum must evolve, especiaily at the Plant level. Accordingly,  
the pariios must have the fexibility to design participative structures thal  
best meei their needs at any given time and that can change as changed  
circumstances and experiances warrant.  
B. Objectives  
in furtherance of their undersiandings on long-term security,  
ihe have agreed to pursue the Ilollowing objectives and  
commitments:  
235  
### APPENDIX S$  
1,  
10.  
Increasing the quality, profitabilty and competitiveness of  
the antesprise and ils products;  
Assuring thai Union representatives and employees  
receive tull and gary access to injormation conceming  
Company decisions aifecting thelr working lives, including  
early concerning, significant Company  
transactions, such as merpers, dispositions,  
joint ventures, etc.;  
Creating a less authoritarian, safer, fairer, more equitable  
and less é6tressful work environment;  
Responding to technological change through joint  
mechanisms which will cause technology to serve the  
intetests of both the enterprise and the workers altected  
by the change;  
Reduction of managerial, supervisory, and related  
overhead costs;  
worker responsibility and controt over the  
workplace;  
Continual training, education and upgrading of the skills  
of the warklorce;  
of batter jabs through higher skills;  
Ensuring that the Company operates responsibly with  
respect to the environment and other areas of public  
policy;  
Acceplance and support by the Company oj the Union  
and acknowledgment of Its role as an essential vehicle in  
attaining these objectives.  
236  
   
### APPENDIX S  
it will be reflected in the plans and activities of the division.  
The results of these meatings, including the information and  
opinions exchanged, the conclusions reached, and the level of  
participation achieved, will be conveyed to all employees by the  
Union representatives and supervision.  
3. Shop Floor Levet  
The objective of the parlies is to improve both the quality of  
worklife for the amptoyees and the effectiveness of the plants. To  
achieve that objective, the parties concur that each plant must be  
managed to allow employees at all levels in the organization to  
meaningfully participate’ in decision making to the  
Company's ability to be the lowest cost producer of quality  
products. This is particularly critical at the shop floor level where  
there musi be a high degree of cooperation and commitment  
between Management and the bargaining unil employees.  
Pursuam to this Memorandum, each Management and bargaining  
unit employee is responsibie to contribule his/her ideas and efforts  
to improve quality of worklife and the effectiveness of the  
operation. Shop floor employees are responsible for participating  
in problem solving on @ continuing basis,  
4, Problem-Solving Process/Teamsa  
The Company and Union agree that employees at all levels of the  
organization must be involved in the decision-making process and  
provide their input, commitment, and cooperation to improve  
productivity and help the Campany to become the lowest cost  
producer of quality products delivered on time. To facilitate  
employees‘ input into the decision-making process, the parties  
agree that employees will participate with Management and the  
Union in problem-solving activities.  
By joint agreement, the CPLC or Divisionat-Level CPCs may  
create one or more Problem-Solving Teams on 2 continuing basis  
239  
   
### APPENDIX S  
or to sludy and report back on a specific problem or project. They  
shall receive the resources problem-solving training and  
information) necessary for them to determine the best solution to  
specific problems. These teams may operate on an ad hoc or  
continuing basis, as appropriate.  
This process will not replace the grievance procedure in the Basic  
Labor Agreement.  
5. Payment Procedures  
a. Monthly Meetings (CPLC)  
The Local Union Presidents and Chairpersons of the  
Grievance Commitiee wilt be compensated for time jost  
irom scheduled work as a resuit of their atiendance at  
CPLC meetings. Such payment for any such fost time  
wilt} be in accordance with existing local payment  
procedures.  
b. Divisional-Level CPCs and Problem-Solving  
Teams  
Employees will be compensated, in accordance with local  
payment procedures, for participating in problem-solving  
laams and allending Divisiona!-Level CPC meetings.  
and Continuing Access to Information  
Appropriate Union representatives {including consultants and  
advisors) shall have access to financial and operational  
information that. Is relevant to the development and  
imptementation of tha Company's Business Plans, as well ag  
access to Company and advisors who are responsible  
for such information,  
As used in this Memorandum, the term “Business Plan” shalt reler  
240  
   
### APPENDIX S$  
C.  
Elements of the Cooperative Partnership  
1. Cooperative Partnership Leadership Committee  
Fhere shall be a Cooperative Partnership Leadership Committee  
(CPLC} consisting of the Local Union President, Chairperson of  
the Grievance Committee and the Manager-Human Resources al  
both plants; ihe Presidents and the Vice Presidents of Operations  
of Acme Steel Company and of Acme Packaging Corporation; the  
Direcior-USWA District 31; the USWA Staff Representative  
servicing the Local Union at each plant; and the Vice President:  
Human Resources.  
The CPLC shall hold its in conjunction with the monthly  
“Business Review Meetings" of the Acme Steel Company and the  
Acme Packaging Carporation. All members of the CPLC shall  
have the opportunity to attend and participate in the above  
referenced meetings.  
CPLC meetings are designed to provide a forum to enhance  
Union-Management relations through improved communications  
and the discussion of significant business and labor issugs, and  
developments that are important to our employees, the Union, and  
the Company. The CPLC shall also discuss and review the  
Strategic issues of ihe Company. The strategic issues shail  
include, but not be limited to, items such as: new  
capiial invesiment, market sirategies, plant configuration, cash  
flow, profit and loss, strategic planning and business planning.  
The Union members of the CPLC shail have the opportunity to  
offer inpul, comment, and advice conceming strategic decisions;  
current and future plans; and the performance of the Riverdale  
and Chicago Planis. Such input, comment, and advice shall be  
considered and, where possible and appropriate, will be reflected  
in tha plans and activities of the Riverdale and Chicago Planis.  
In any evant, the Union will be provided feedback with regard to  
their input.  
Zo?  
   
### APPENDIX S  
The rasuiis of CPLC meetings shail be conveyed to Local Union  
and Managemeni personnel by committee in order  
inat the Loca! Union leadership and Management are positioned  
Io keep all employees informed and to allow further discussion of  
issues related to the plants.  
The CPLC shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Cooperative  
at both plants, facilitate joint efforts to ensure that the  
worktorca is being managed sftectively in a cooperative and  
participative mode, and shall monitor the implementation of  
productivity improvement actions al both plants.  
The CPLC (including Union advisors} may appear before and be  
heard by Acme Metals, Inc.'s Board of Olrectors at appropriate  
times on matters being considered by ihe Board that are of  
cancein to the CPLC, and such access shall be givan prior to the  
Board reaching a decision on such matters.  
2. Olvisional-Level Cooperative Parinerahip Committees  
Each major division shall have a Cooperative Partnership  
Committee (CPC) to be made up of equal members of  
Management and Union representatives. The Division Manager  
and the Grievance Cammitteeperson(s) for that division shalt be  
members oi this along with other members appointed  
by the CPLC.  
Each Oivisional-Level Cooperative Partnership Commitiee shail  
meet monihty in conjunction with tha! division's monthly "Division  
Review Members of that division's CPC shal have the  
opportunity to atiend and participate in that meeting, which will  
consist of a review of that division's performance and future  
guilook. In ihis committee, the partles are encouraged to engage  
in an open and candid exchange of kleas and intormation, All  
members should have adequate opportunity to consider new  
information and to provide whatever Input, comment, or advice  
ihey deem appropriate. Such Input, comment, or advice shall  
receive due consideration and, where possible and appropriate,  
238  
   
### APPENDIX S  
to the Company's short-term business plan and long-term  
strategic and operaling plan, including such elements as those  
involving pricing, markets, capital spending, ehort and  
{ong-term cash flow forecasts, and the method and manner oi  
funding or financing the Business Plans. Wilhout limiting the  
foregoing, the Company shall provide te Union with early  
notification of any contemplated significant transactions Involving  
mergers, acquisitions, and continuing updaies ragarding  
dispositions, joint ventures, and new facilittas to be constructed or  
established by the Company, ils subsidiaries, joint ventures, or  
oiher entities in which the Company has a financial interest.  
For its pan, tha Union will provide the Company with appropriate  
information regarding Union activilies, organizational changes,  
bargaining and political objectives, and other plans or  
developments that might affect ihe Company.  
The use of the information by this Section will be  
covered by 4 agreement in form and substance  
satislaciory to the parties.  
Comprehensive Training and Education Program for  
Committee Members, Bargaining Unit Employees, and Non-  
Bargaining Unit Employees  
The parlies recognize that the goals of Cooperative Partnership  
can be attained only by a commitment to comprehensive and  
ongding training and education, Accordingly, the CPLC shail take  
steps to establish training programs necessary to the purposes of  
this Memorandum. All training shall be focused on the following  
objectives: .thé long-range joint goals of the parties; problem-  
Solving techniques; communication activities; skills, altitudes,  
behaviors and techniques for increasing the effectiveness of  
participation and involvement activities; and methods for  
datennining and achieving joint goals. Without limiting the  
comprehensiveness or conlinuity of the training and education  
241  
### APPENDIX S  
   
required by this Memorandum, such aciivities will include at least  
the following minimum standards and guidelines:  
1.  
Both Company and Union representatives shall receive  
‘raining by their respective organizations in how,  
consistent with their organization's goals, they can  
accomplish the objectives of this Memorandum through  
participation and involvement activities, and such training  
shall include the following minimum levets:  
‘ AS members of the CPLC, Divisional-Level CPCs  
and Problem-Solving Teams: 12 total days per  
year,  
By mutual agreement, tha CPLC shail sponsor a  
for at least annual orientation and appropriate training of  
all members of joint commitiees created under this  
Memorandum.  
The CPLC shall develop a training program designed to  
increase the skills of bargalning unit and non-bargaining  
unit employee participants concerning the subjects  
idemified in this Section &. Such a program shall  
commence with instruction on how best to pursue orga-  
nizational objactives through participation activitias, such  
instruction lo satisfy the folowing minimum levels; for  
bargaining unit employees, a one-day Union-taught  
orlentation session; for front line supervisors, managers,  
and other excluded personne, 4 one-day Management-  
taught orientalion session.  
The Company shall fund all programs referred to  
in this Section, inctuding employes time spent in such  
training, as though #t were time worked at the employee's  
rate of eamings as determined for vacation pay.  
242  
### APPENDIX S$  
F,  
Workplace Restructuring  
1. Authorization  
Either ai the request of a DivisionakLeve} CPC (which shall  
include the assenting vote of a majority of the Union members of  
the CPC) or by decision of the CPLC (which shall include the  
assenting vote of a majority of ha Union members of the CPLC},  
the CPLC may decide upon a Workplace Restructuring Program  
fo restructure traditionally structured units or groups in the  
bargaining unit. An “Approved Workplace Restructuring Program*  
within the meaning ol this Memorandum is a Workplace  
Resiructuring Program that includes: the establishment of  
operaling work groups or teams, or self-directed work teams or  
groups; or the implementation of other new and improved ways  
of parforming work as altrifion removes Dargaining unit and  
excluded personnel from the plant or facility. Approval must be  
obtained from the CPLC (which shall include the assanting vole  
of a majorily of the Union members of ihe CPLC).  
2. Required Elements  
Any Workplace Restructuring Program in the bargaining unit that  
involves the establishment of operating work groups or teams, or  
self-direcied work tearns or groups, must: be a joint endeavor;  
cause the workplace to be less authoritarian, more safe, more  
equitable and lass stressful; reduce substantially the level of  
Supervision; change the role of supervisors from directing to  
coaching; and give the workers greater influence, responsibility  
and conirol over day-to-day operations, including, if the CPLC so  
determines, planning, scheduling and administrative functions not  
traditionally perfarmed by bargaining unit members. Without  
regard to any other employment or eamings guarantees provided  
by other sections of the Basic Labor Agreament, any Workplace  
Restructuring Program shall include appropriate  
243  
### APPENDIX S  
Technological Change Program  
The CPLC shail establish a new technology development and  
program (Technological Change Program) which  
shad include the following elements:  
1. Advance Notice  
The Company shall provide the CPLC or appropriale Division-  
Level CPC with advance notice of any proposed technological  
change no later than the beginning of the Company's process for  
evaluating such proposal. Such notice shalt be in writing, shall to  
the extent and when available contain supporting Information  
gutlned below, and shall include updates of naw or revised  
information necessary for full and current understanding of the  
proposed change. in the case o! emergency technological  
changes, the Campany shall giva the maximum notice and.  
information possible under the circumstances.  
2. Intormailon  
Within the time periods noted above, the Company shail give the  
CPLC the following information:  
. a description of the purpose and function o/ the  
tachnological change, and how it would fit into  
existing operations and processes; the estimated  
cost of the technology, a cost justilication of it,  
and the proposed timetable for it;  
° disclosure of any service or mainienance  
warranties or contracts provided or required by  
the vendor (if any);  
* the number and type of jabs (both inside and  
outside the bargaining unit) which would be  
changed, added, or by the  
technological change;  
244  
   
### APPENDIX S  
. the anticipated impact on the exill requirements of  
the workforces:  
details of any Waining programs connected with  
the new technology {including duratian, content,  
and who will perform the training};  
, an outline of other options which were considered  
by the Company before formulating iis proposed  
changes; and  
. the expected impact of the change on job  
content, pace of work, safety and health, training  
needs, and cantracting out.  
Union representatives on the CPLC may requesi and receive  
access to Company personnet knowledgeable aboul any  
proposed technological change (including outside consultants} to  
review, discuss, and receive follow-up information concerning any  
technological changes proposed by ihe Company or Union or their  
effacts on the Dargaining unit.  
The use of the information contemplated by this subsection will be  
covered by a confidentiality agreement in form and substance  
to the parties.  
3. Union Involvement in Company Decisions to Make  
Technological Changes  
With respec] to any Company decision whether to make a  
technological change, Union representatives on the CPLC may  
initiate discussion and consideration of technological changes that  
are new or different from those proposed by the Company. In all  
events, the views expressed by the Union members of the CPLC  
shall be considered by the Company.  
4. Union Joint Decision-Making Authority with Respect  
to Effects of Technological Change  
245  
   
### APPENDIX S  
The Union members of the CPLC shali have joint decision-making  
authority with their Company counterparts over the oeffacts of  
Company decisions under the immediately preceding  
Subparagraph 3 above, including the following: the number and  
type of jobs required by the changed technology; the skill and  
training requirements for each such job; the delails of any new or  
changed tralning associated with the technology; the inclusion of  
such job in the bargaining unit; any new work rules or operaling  
procedures associaied with the technology; and any health,  
salety, or anviranmental programs required by the technology.  
5. Definitions  
As used herain, the term “"lechnology” shall Include machinery,  
equipment, controls, materials, and software; the phrase  
"technological change" shall sefer to introductions of new  
technology, changes in existing technology, or beth.  
Safeguards and Resources  
1. Except as may be appraved by the CPLC, no joint  
committee’ may amend or modify the Basic Labor  
Agreament.  
2. No committee authorized by this Memorandum may effect  
any action with raspect fo coniraciua! grievances.  
3. Service on any commitise or team created under this  
Memorandum shall be voluntary.  
4, The Union will strive to be a full participant in the  
processes and mechanisms established by this  
Memorandum, and bargaining unit employees will be  
encouraged and expected to perform their duties within  
the parameters established hereunder. However, no  
employee may be disciptined or discharged for lack of  
commitmen) to the participation or involvement processes.  
246  
### APPENDIX S  
S.  
10.  
11.  
Employes participation and training shal) normally occur  
during normal work hours, and the employes shall  
no loss of earnings as a resull thereat.  
No committee established under this Memorandum may  
recommend or effect the hiring, discipline, or discharge of  
any employee.  
At the invilation of the Union Co-Chair of any committee  
created hereunder, the following Union representatives  
may atiend @ committes meeting: the Union's District  
Diractor-District 31 or his Union headquarters  
personnel; or outside Union experts.  
All meeting time and necessary and reasonable expenses  
of jaint committees shall be paid for by the Company and  
no employee attending such meetings shail suffer a loss  
of gamings as a result. The paries will develop  
procedures for handling expenses.  
Union members on joint committees shall be entitled to:  
adequate opportunity on Company time to caucus for  
purposes of study, preparation, consultation, and review,  
and shall, consistent with Subparagraph H&, have their  
expenses defrayed by the Company. Requests for  
caucus time shail be made to the appropriate Company  
Management representative in a timely manner, and such  
requests shall not be untaasonably denied.  
Joint committees may, agree to employ experts trom  
within of outside the Company as consultants, advisors or  
instructors, and such experts shail be jointly selected and  
assigned.  
Nothing in this Memorandum shall permit the Union  
members of any committee to participate in the portion of  
any meetings in which the subject maiter the  
Company's strategy for collactive bargaining negotiations,  
247  
APPENDIX a = enn ae  
grievances and other labor relations issues or legal  
claims, Including, without limitation, lawsuits or  
trative procesdings involving the Union or employees of  
ihe Company, salaried compensation,  
development activities, and similar personnel maiters.  
i. Final Decision Making Authorlty  
The parties have entered into this Memorandum lor ihe purpose  
of making the Union and the employees jull participants in the  
joint decision-making process al tha Company, However, it is  
understood that the parties will not always agree.  
Atter the Union members of the CPLC have been given a full  
opportunity to be heard and their views tully considered, the  
Managemen! person responsible for ihe matter shall have the  
fight to make the final decision in the event of disagreement  
fegarding a matter as to which, absent this Memorandum,  
Management has the right to make a unilateral decision, and such  
decision shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.  
Similarly, with respect to other on which Union  
rapresentalives will participale by reason of this Memorandum,  
after the Union representatives have been given a full opportunily  
to be heard and their views fully considered. the Management  
person for the matter shall have the right to make the  
final decision in the event of disagraement regarding a matier as  
to which, abseni this Memorandum, Management has the right to  
make 2 unilateral decision, and such decision shall not be subject  
to the grievance procedure,  
With respect to any provision of this Memorandum which deals  
with & matter which Management has noi heretofore had the  
unilateral right to make decisions, this Memorandum gives  
Management no greater righ! to make unilateral decisions  
regarding such matters than it would have In the absence of this  
Memorandum, Similarly, this Memorandum gives the Union no  
greater righ! to make decisions regarding such matters or to  
248  
### APPENDIX S  
a.  
protest, delay, or prevent the implementation of Management  
decisions ragarding such matters than ft would have in the  
absance of this Memorandum.  
Finally, whilg the final decisions of Management with to  
matters Over which, absent this Memorandum, has  
the unilatara) right to make a decision are not subject to the  
grievance proceduré, the process of dacision making (including  
the full participation ol the Union representatives and employees  
in the process as provided in this Memorandum and the  
commitmants conceming information, access, and  
training in this Memorandum} is subject to ihe grievance  
procedure and arbitration. As to a parlicular decision, the  
Campany’s failure to fallow the procedural requirements of this  
Memorandum shall noi be the basis for preventing the  
implementation of thal decision. Should the parlias be unable to  
agree on a spacially designaied arbitrator to hear and decide any  
such dispute, the dispute shall be heard dy the arbitrator provided  
for under Article V (Riverdale) of Article Vill (Chicago) of the  
### applicable Labor Agreement.  
Implementation  
The parties recognize that the participation mechanisms described  
in this Memorandum cannot be implemented until ihe CPLC and  
the Divisional-Level CPCs have been formed and the initial  
members of those committees have completed the training  
refarenced in E1 above.  
Cooperative Partnership Evaluation  
The Cooperative Partnership Leadership Committee wil be  
rasponsible for evaluating the Cooperative Partnership process.  
This Committee will visit each Plant on an annual basis for the  
purpose of experiencing, firsthand, how the Cooperative  
Partnership effort is progressing,  
249  
   
### APPENDIX T  
### APPENDIX T  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ON  
### NEUTRALITY IN UNION ORGANIZING CAMPAIGNS  
Mr. Jack Parton  
Director, District 31  
United Steglworkers of America  
First National Bank Building  
Foom 211  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
East Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
This letter will serve 1G confirm certain understandings reached in our  
1993 negotiations.  
A,  
Neutrality  
Over the years the Company {Acme Stee! Company and Acme  
Packaging Corporation) and the Union have developed a  
constructive and harmonious relationship built on trust, integrity  
and mutual respect. The Company places high value on the  
continuation and Improvement of ils relationship with the United  
Steeiworkers of America, as well 23 with all of its employees.  
We also know from experience that when both are  
mvolyed in an organizing campaign directed at unrepresented  
Company employees, there is a risk that election conduct and  
campaign activities may have a harmful effaci on the pariies’  
telaiionship. Theretore, it is Incumbent on both parties to take  
appropriate steps to ensuse that all facets of an organizing  
campaign will be conducted in a constructive and positive  
which does not misrepresent to employees the facts and  
250  
   
### APPENDIX T  
circumstances surrounding their employment and in @ manner  
which neither demeans the Company or the Union as an  
organization nor their respective representatives as individuals.  
To underscore the Company's commitment in this matter, it  
agrees to adopt a posilion of neutrality in tha evant thal the Union  
seeks to represent any non-represented employees of the  
Company.  
Neutrality means thal he Company shail neither help nar hinder  
the Union’s conduct of an organizing campaign, nor shall it  
demean tha Union as @ organization or as representatives as  
individuals, Also, the Company shall nol provide any support or  
assistance of any kind to any parson Or group opposed to Union  
organization.  
Consistent with the above, the Company reserves the right:  
1. To dispute to the extent permitted under the law any  
issué$ relating 10 the scope and makeup of the unit  
sought by ihe USWA,  
2. Ta communicate fairly and factually to employees in the  
unit sought conceming ihe terms and conditions of their  
employment with the Company and concerning legitimate  
issues in the campaign,  
For its pan, the Union agrees that all facets of its organizing  
campaign will be conducted in a constructive and positive Manner  
which doss not misrepresent to employees the facts and  
circumstances surrounding their employment and in a manner  
whith neither demeans tha Company as an organization nor its  
representatives as individuals.  
The Company's commitment to ramain shall cease if the  
Union or its agents intentionally or repeatedly misrepresent to Ihe  
employses the facts and circumstances susrounding their  
employment or conduct a campaign which comments on the  
251  
   
### APPENDIX T  
motives, integrity or character of the Company or its  
  
Access to Company Facilities  
Upon written request, the Company shall grant access to its  
factities to the Union for the purpose of distributing literature and  
meeting with unrepresenied Company amployess, Distribution of  
Union literature al entrances and exits of Company facilities shall  
not compromise safety or disrupt access or egress. Distribution  
of Union literature inside Company facllitias and meeting with  
unrepresented Company employees insides Company  
shall be limited to organizing tables in non-work areas during non-  
work lime. Union representatives shall notify appropriate  
Company fabor relations officials betore engaging in the above  
organizing schedule access to Company facilities and  
arrange for organizing tables in non-work areas and shall not  
disrupt the normal business of the  
in situations where an election is scheduled pursuant to NLAB  
representation procedures for the purpose of determining whelher  
employees, as defined above, desire represeniation by the USWA  
lor collective bargaining purposes, the Company agrees that ii will  
not engage in an slection apeech an Company time to groups of  
twenty (20) or more employees within seventy-two {72} hours  
before the schaduled lime for conducting the election. This provi-  
sion shall nol be construed in any lashton to confer upon the  
USWA a right to engage at any lime in an election speech on  
Company time or on Company property. Notwithstanding the  
foregoing, ihe Company reserves the right:  
1. To angage in an election speech on Company time within  
seventy-two (72) hours before the scheduled time for  
conducting the election, where not othenwise prohibited by  
law, In response to Union misrepresentations of acts of  
coercion relating to the election, the employees’ tenns  
and conditions of amptoyment or any aspect of Union  
252  
   
### APPENDIX T  
representation.  
2 To engage in discussions on Company time regarding the  
Union or the election within (72) hours before  
the scheduled time for conducting the election (a} with  
on a oné-to-ane employes-to-  
Cormpany representative basis or (6) with groups af em-  
playees where such discussions are initiated by ihe  
employees with members of Management.  
C. Olspule Resolution  
Any dispuies involving this letter shall be brought to a joint  
committee of one Headquarters representative of the Company  
and Union. If the alleged violation or dispute cannot be  
satslactorily resolved by the parties, either party may request that  
the pérmaneni arbitrator resolve such dispute. The arbitrator shall  
resolve such dispute by means of a bench decision fo be  
rendered at a hearing to be held within fourteen (14) days of the  
making of the request at a site mutually agreeable to by the  
parties.  
Very truly yours,  
Acme Steel Company  
Gerald J. Shope  
Vice President  
Human Flesoyrces  
  
{sf J. Parton  
Chainman  
Negotiating Committee  
United Stesiworkers of America  
253  
   
### APPENDIX U  
### APPENDIX U  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### AND COMMITMENT  
Acme Metals, incorporated and the United Steelworkers of America recognize  
the need to continuously invest In new tectinology to the long term  
succes¢ of Ihe steal business. A successful steel business provides future  
security for (ts employees and maximizes returns for all stakeholders in the  
company.  
Acme Metals, Incorporated bs planning to install a new siate-of-the-art thin slab  
caster/modern strip mill facility at Ita Riverdale works. Both partes  
that It Is In thely best interests to Install and operate thesa leading-edge facilities  
as cheaply, effectively, and axpeditiausly as possible.  
Therefore, the parties agree thal they wil mutually extend thelr bes! efforts to:  
1. Encourage and support all forms of investment In the project  
by equify pariners, landers, suppllers, and customers 10  
ensure financing and compilation of the project;  
2. Work cooperatively with a’ levels of government io explore  
and take advantage of all forms of funding which may be  
avaliable, and to ensure the necessary permitting is obtalnad;  
3. Work to jolnily create the proper working  
environmvant io ensure the success of the facililles  
and maximize returns for afl stakehotders, Inciuding investors,  
and customers.  
Signed this 1st day of September, 1993.  
Lynn AL Willams Brian W.H. Marsden  
Presitent and CEO  
United Steahworkers of Amerka Acme Matals, Incorporated  
254  
   
### APPENDIX V-1  
### APPENOIX V-1  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### AEGARDING  
### THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT OF 1993  
August 31, 1993  
Jack Parton,  
District 31, USWA  
720 W. Chicago Ave.  
Room 2114  
East Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr, Parion:  
The parties agree that the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act  
of 1993 (FMLA) will replace and supersede ihe “Medical Leave of Absence  
Procedure - Hourty Employees” etloctive September 1, 1993. The panies  
agree that not later than 17, 1993, the local parties will meet  
for the purpose of mutually agresing on the terms af the new policy.  
Applying the set farth in the FMLA, ihe parties agree ihat the  
foltowing principles will be applied in the discussions referred to above:  
1. Al bargaining unit employees with six (6) or more months  
of continuous service and all bargaining unit transitional  
employees with 26 weeks or more oa! active transitional  
employment since hisvher last effeciive date of hire as a  
transitional employes wil bp eligiote for FMLA coverage.  
2. Seniority will continue to accrue the statutory  
portion of the leave, and the statutory portion of the leave  
wilf nol constituie a break in continuous service,  
255  
   
### APPENDIX V-1  
3, Program of Insurance Benetlit coveraga will ba continued  
by the Company during the statutory portion of the leave.  
4. The Company will not require that vacation time be used  
tor family and medical laave purposes.  
Vary truly yours,  
G.J. Shope  
Vice Prasident-Human Resources  
Acme Steel Company  
### CONFIAMED:  
Jack Parton, Director  
Negatlating Cammities  
United Stesiworkers of America  
256  
   
### APPENDIX ¥-2  
### APPENDIX V-2  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### REGARDING  
### AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT  
August 37, 1999  
Jack Parton, Director  
District 31, USWA  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
Roam 211  
East Chicago, IN 46912  
Dear Mr, Parton:  
During ihase negotiations the Company and the Union pladge to cooperate in  
making any necessary and reasonable accommodations required by the Amaricans  
with Disabilities Act (ADA) for disabled bargaining unit members and, i possible,  
to nite ae resolve possible confikts between the terms of tha Labor Agreement  
8 A.  
Notwithstanding any provision of this later, ha Union reserves its rights under the  
law and the Labor Agreement.  
Vary truly yours,  
G, J. Shope  
Vice President-Human Resources  
Acme Steel Company  
### CONFIRMED:  
Jack Parton, Oirectar  
Negotiating Committee  
Unitad Steelworkers of America  
257  
   
### APPENDIX W  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### ON  
### TRADE OR CRAFT USAGE AND TRAINING PROGRAM  
The Union and the Company are committed to the improvement of the  
overall effectiveness of al maintenance functions io suppor continual improvement  
In maintenance productivity. To Implement these adjectives, the parties agree to  
work together to implement productivity Improvaments in the malnterance  
workforce under an Employment Security umbrefia. The parties are further  
committed to the establishment and prasetvailon of a highly skilled, efficient  
maintenance workforce in sufficient number to cary out 3 successful maintenance  
Program at the plants covered by this Memorandum. It ls also their purpose to  
accomplish the foregoing as much as possible with unit employees and  
without excessive overtime,  
### A, STUDY OF MAINTENANCE WORKFORCE  
The parties recognize that they cannot athleve the objectivés of this Memarandum  
ai this time due 10 the uncertdiniles created by the proposed new slab casterhot  
stip mill facity, Accordingly, commencing one {1) year after the first marketable  
coll Is produced by that facility, or January 1, 1997, whichever date Is earlier, tha  
Maintenance Excellance Committee ("MEC*} at plant, made up of three {3)  
represeniaives designated by the Local Union, at least two (2) of whom shalt be  
experienced plant maintenance employses, and an equal number of  
representatives designated by the Company, 1 Jeasi hwo (2) of whom shall be  
experienced In eupervision or malntanance management, will mest  
leguiarty and wid receive required technical assistance from appropriate Company  
or Union sources. Each MEC will ba responsible for examining the presen  
maintenance workforces, considering such fulura changes in malntenance  
requirements thal can be identified, and davaloping the specific Information  
below for each plant. However, if the Board of Directors of Acme  
Metals, Inc. decidas not to 90 forward with the new slab caster/hot strip mift facility,  
each MEC shall, at that point, commence this Study and thereafter develop the  
Flan in accordance with Section B.  
258  
### APPENDIX W  
1.  
14,  
   
Determine the numbers of maintenance employees in each  
trade or craft job for both assignad amd unassigned  
maintenance;  
Develop an age profile for all trade or craft empioyses;  
Assess the anticipated altrition sales for the maintenance  
workforce over the next five (5) years;  
Assess the avaltabikty of who are qualified to enter  
apprentice programs in the plant’s workforce;  
identity potentia) avenues by which employees can receive basic  
education training to qualify for apprenticeship programs;  
Evaluate the necessity of developing additional apprenticeship  
training programs and evalais the current apprenticeship  
programs ki datermine tha current training structure Is meeting  
the overall goals of the pasties;  
Examine current craft overtime and assess whether  
cernain crafts are working excessive avertlme;  
Examine mprovemeni mathods by which craft effictenclas and  
can be achiaved through additional craft taining,  
maintaining a proper balance of forces and coordination of  
activities tor assigned and non-assigned forces, and reduction  
Of overtime usage;  
Examine the plani’s projected new construction and major  
construction, replacement and programs during the  
next five (5) years lo assess the potential Involvemerit of existing  
Plant maintenarice workforces on such work,  
To the extent practicable, assess maintenance practices al ihe  
plant under this review versus those of other major  
producers represented by ihe Union; and  
Assess the level of plant ade of craft forces necessary t0 meel  
reasonably anticipated tong-term luture maintenance needs,  
bearing in ming all ihe above items.  
259  
   
### APPENDIX W  
During the interim period, each MEC shail examine present maintenance sequire-  
ments and the maintenance forces necessary to address these needs during (his  
Interim period. ft is recognized thal the Union's concerns about erosion of the  
maintenance workforce during this intarim petlod must be balanced against the  
Company's concem abou! having excessive maintenance personnel al the end of  
ihe transitional period.  
### B. MAINTENANCE TRAINING PLAN  
Within ix (6) months from tha commencemenl of the Study, each MEC will submit  
8 written report to the Co-Chalrparsons of the Nagotlaling Committee of its findings  
and recommendations with respect to the matters set forth In Section 4. In  
addition, aach MEC will a recommendation for Implementation of a Mainte-  
nance Tralning Program (*MTP*) designed to fill anticipated maintenance needs  
for thal plant, Each recommended MTP will Include an Impiemantation dais, the  
minimum number of employees to be tained or retrained In each trade or craft  
within a defined periad, ihe method af training, and provisions for upgrading the  
$idlig of incumbent trade of employees. in Geveloping each MTP, the  
following guideline/goal shail apply:  
Provide sufficiam number of trained trade and crafi employees to mest  
reasonably aniicipated long-term future malnienance needs without  
excessive overtime and in aocontance with the cantacting out provisions  
of the Agresmeni.  
Each MEC report will include separate statements by the pariles wilh respect to  
any finding or racommendation to which they disagree.  
### c. ACTION BY THE CO-CHAIRPERSONS  
Within aixty (60} days of racalpt of the zeport submitted by each MEC, the Union  
and Company Co-Chalmersons of the Negotiating may: (1} approve  
an agreed-upon Plan submitted by the parties; (2} modify any Plan as they may  
Muytually apres; of (3) disagree, In whole or In part, with respect to any lindings or  
recommendations contained in a submitted Plan. With respeci lo any matters as  
to which the Co-Chalrpersons disagras, the dispute will be promptly referred (o  
arbitration pursuant to procedures 10 ba agreed upon by the Co-Chalrpersons. The  
dizpute will be on the basis of a ‘final subenission by the pariles at  
Ahearing. The Ptan arbitrator will detarmine which of the submissions best maets  
260  
   
### APPENDIX W  
the maintenance needs of the Company in light of Ihe quidellnes and goals spelled  
out In this Memorandum of Understanding.  
### D. PRESERVATION OF PLAN  
Except where the training of continued taining of additional trade and craft  
employees at a Plant is no fonger fistified due to changed conditions euch as  
economic perlods and/or facility shutdowns, the Plan shall not be dis-  
continued during the larn of the Agreament,  
261  
   
### APPENDIX XK  
### APPENDIX X  
### LETTER AGREEMENT  
### REGARDING  
### NATIONAL HEALTH CARE  
August 25, 1993  
Mr. Jack Parton, Director  
District 31. USWA  
720 West Chicago Avenue  
2114  
East Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
In the event thal a National Heallh Care program is enacted, and such program  
provides Insurance benefits which had baen provided by the Program of Insurance  
(PIB) for both active employeas and Eligla Pensioners and Surviving  
Spouses and/or the Program of Hosplial-Medical Benefts (PHMB) for Eligible  
Pensioners and Surviving Spouses ln effect at the tme of enactment, the parties  
will meat fo discuss the impact of the légisfation and any modifications 10 the ingur-  
ance programs which may bé necessary or desirable.  
Where, by agreement, certain benafits under the insurance programs are provided  
under iaw father than under the PIB or PHMB, the Company will pay the amount  
raquired t be pakd lo ensure that participants’ coverage Is no lass than thelr  
coverage under the PIB or PHM in which they were thal ate In atiect at  
the time of enaciment. The Company shall, aftar with tha Union,  
raduce the benefits under tha PIB or PHMB to the exten! that benefits provided  
under law would otharwise duplicate any of the benefltg provided under the PIB of  
PHMB jn efipct at the tlne of enactment. Except as specifically excluded under  
the PIB of PHMB (for example, Part 8 premiums for a Medicare-eilkgbie  
ralires), this shail not rasuit in persons covered by the PIB of PHMB having to pay  
additional deductibles, copayments, or In excess of tha amounts  
proyided fot in the PIB of PHME. Any resulting personal tax flability is the  
responsibility of the employee, retires or surviving Spouse; however, the Company  
and the Union will meet thereafter to explore methods of reducing this tlabillty.  
It the Company is required under the law to provide benelits to parlicipants In  
excess of the benafits provided under the PIB or PHMB In which they are enrolled  
262  
   
### APPENDIX X  
of as fequired by law at the time of enactment, the amounts required to be pald  
for baneilts shafl be paki entirely by employees or retivees/surviving Spouses.  
As s00n as practicable following enactment, an actuary selacied by the Company  
wilt pacform a calculation using reasonable acivarial assumptions and mathods to  
determine the amount of savings realized. These savings will be reduced by any  
premiums, payroll taxes or contributions specifically designated for iha of  
Gnancing the national program which are requited of ihe Company by law. The  
net savings, If any, will be used to offset the increased employee and  
spouse Costs referenced In the preceding paragraphs via methods  
mutually agreed to by he Company and the Union. Any net savings in excess of  
the offset amount will be shared equalty between the Company and the employees  
and rétiraes/surviving Spouses.  
if any diflarence shall arise between the Company and the Union regarding the  
of ihe matters described above, such matters shall be referred to  
the Chatmereon of the Union's Negotating Communities and the Chaispersan ot ihe  
for resolution. If the Chaispersons ara unable  
to resolve the disputes, the disputes shall be raferred to a mutually agreeable third  
party for binding arbitration.  
Furthermore, the parties agres that during the negoilailons lor a successor Labor  
Agresmant to ie 1993 Labor Agseament, they shalt attempt lo faach agreement  
regariing the application of any cost savings io ihe Company resulting from bene-  
its being provided under law which would otherwise duplicate any o! the benefits  
provided under the PIB of PHB in affect at the time of  
Very trufy yours,  
### ACME STEEL COMPANY  
Gerald J. Shope  
Vica Presikient-Hurman Resources  
### CONFIAMED:  
Jack Parton  
Diractor, District 31  
United Steetworkers of America  
   
### APPENDIX ¥  
### APPENDIX Y  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### REGARDING  
### USWA/PAC CHECKOFF AGREEMENT  
August 31, 1993  
Jack Parton, Director  
Oistict 31, USWA  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
Room 217  
East Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
This will reconfirm the agreement made as part of the settlement of the  
1993 negatiations that the Company will make designated payroll  
deductions for voluntary contributions by active employees who have  
authorized such deductions and will transmit such voluntary contributions  
to the United Steetworkers of America Political Action Committes  
(USWAJPAC) pursuant to the following:  
The Union will be responsible for the cost of printing and  
distributing voluntary USWA/PAC wage deduction authorization  
farms. (tis agread Ihat the USWA/PAC chackoff ptan  
will be implemented as follows:  
1. Effective (to be determined), the Company shall deduct,  
on a (to be determined) basis, contributions to  
tha USWA/PAC trom ihe wages of those employees  
represented by the United Siesiworkers of America who  
voluntarily authorize such deductions and contributions on  
lorms provided for that purpose by the USWA/PAC, The  
amount and timing of such USWA/PAC waga deductions  
and the transmittal of such voluntary contributions to the  
264  
### APPENDIX Y  
   
USWA/PAC may be as in such forns and in  
conformance with any applicable state or federal statute.  
The Company shall mail to the USWA/PAC Administrative  
Olfice (5 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15222) within  
{15} days following the ending date of any pay  
period (a which any deduction is made pursuant to this  
Agreemeni, a report which will list the names, Social  
Security numbers, addresses and amounts deductions  
ol USWA/PAC contributions which have been withheld  
pursuant io this Agreement during and immediately  
preceding the payrol) period,  
The Company shall remit io the Treasurer of the  
USWA/PAC voluntary contributions io the USWA Poliical  
Action Fund (5 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15222)  
within fifteen days following the ending date of each (10  
be determined) basis, following (to be detammineg), during  
Which any deduction has been made for USWA/PAC  
contributions which have been deducted.  
The signing of a USWA/PAC checkaotl form and ihe  
making of valuntary contributions are not conditions of  
membership in the Union or of employment with the  
Company.  
The Union shall indemnify and save the Company  
harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or  
Other forms of jiability thai shall arise aut of or by reason  
of action taken or not taken by the Company for the  
Purpose of complying with any of tha provisions of this  
Agreement,  
The United Steelworkers of America Political Action  
Cammittes supports various candidates for federal, state  
and other etective offices, and is connected wilh the  
United Steatworkers of America, a labor organization, and  
Solicits and accepts only voluntary which  
265  
   
—_—— eee = =  
### APPENDIX Y  
eee ee —— i  
ate deposited in an account separate and segregated  
from the dues fund of the Union, in its own fundraising  
efforts and in joimt fundraising efforts with the AFL-CIO  
and its Commitiee on Political Education (COPE}.  
Very truly yours,  
Shope  
Vices President-Human Resources  
Acme Steel Company  
### CONFIRMED:  
Jack Patton, Director  
Committee  
United Steelworkers of America  
266  
   
### APPENDIX Z  
### APPENDIX Z  
### REOPENER NEGOTIATIONS AND INTEREST ARBITRATION  
It is highty desirable to provide long-term stability of steel oparations, pro-  
duction and employment for the benefit of the employees, customers,  
suppliers and stockholders. To attain these objectives, the Company and  
the United Sieslworkers of America have enterad into an extended term  
1993 labor agreement ("the 1993 Agreement"}. In addition, the partias  
hereby provide for reopener negotiations and, if necessary, inierest  
arbitration to be conducted in accordance with the following:  
A.  
Sirlkes and Lockouts  
Throughout the proceedings described below and in conjunction  
with reopener negotialions and interest arbitration, the Union, on  
behalf of tha employees covered by the 1993 Agreament, agrees  
not to engage in sirikes, sympathy strikes, work stoppages or  
concerted refusals to work in support of its bargaining demands,  
and the Company agrees not to rasort to lockouts of employees  
SUPPOr its bargaining posilion; and the procedures below shail  
be the means by which changes in the terms and  
conditions of employment shall be made effective during the life  
of the 1993 Agreement.  
Scope of Reopener Negotiations and Interest Arbitration  
1. As used herein, “specified payroll items” refers to the  
following economic  
a. Standard Hourly Wage Rate (CR and  
Additive)  
b- Shiit Differentiab  
  
### APPENDIX Z  
c. ~ = Overtime Premium |  
d. Sunday Preemtum  
8. Lump Sum Paymenis  
f. Holidays and Vacations  
qg. EPP  
h, Allowances for time not worked (military  
encampment, jury or witness service, funeral  
leave and reporting allowance)  
As used herein, "specified smployee benelits" refers to  
### SUB.  
The parties agree that any reopener negotiations or  
interest arbitration instituted in accordance with the  
provisions ol Section D below during the fife of the 1993  
Agreement shall be limited to "specilied payroll items” and  
“specilied employes beneiits* as defined in Subsections  
Bi and B2 abowa. The parties agree that no other  
matters relating to terms and conditions of employment  
shall be made the subject of reopener negatiations or  
interest arbitration, [f matters other than “specilied payroll  
items* and employee benefits’ ara submitted by  
one party In reopener negotiations or in interest  
arbitration, the party shall nol be required to  
negotiale conceming those matters and the  
shal) have no authority to resolve issues to  
such matters.  
tt is the intention of the parties thal issues périaining to  
payroll items" and "specified employee  
benefiis” as defined in Subsections 81 and B2 above  
shail elthar be resolved by them in any reopener  
negotiations instituted in accordance with the provisions  
af Seciion D below or decided by interest arbitration as  
provided for in Section E balow. in this regard, the  
parties shall make every good faith offori to resolve any  
issues perlaining to "specitied payroll items® and  
“specilied empioyee benefits” in raopener negotiations  
268  
### APPENDIX Z  
   
prior to commencement of interest arbitration  
proceedings.  
Effective Date of Econamic Changes During the 1993  
Agreement  
Unlass the agree otherwise, changes in “specified payroll  
items" and “specified employee benefits’ arrived at pursuant to  
Sections D or E below shall be effective with the payroll period  
commencing nearest io September 1, 1896, and shall continue in  
full force and effect for the remainder of the 1993 Agreement.  
Negotiations  
1,  
Not tater than May 1, 1996, either party may give the  
other written notice of its desire to negotiate with respect  
to “specified payrof items,“ “specified employes benefits,"  
of Doth, and the parties shall mest as soon as practicable  
therealter io negotiate with respect to such matters.  
Any notice to be given under this Section shail be given  
by ragislered mail; be completed by and at the time of  
mailing; and if by the Company, be addressed to the  
United Steelworkers of America, 5 Gateway Center,  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222, and il by the Union, to  
the Company at 13500 South Perry Avenue, Riverdale,  
iHingis 60627.  
Not later than June 1, 1996, the parties shall either {a}  
reach a full settlement on all issues raised with respect io  
“specilied payroll ilems" and “specified employee  
benefits,” or (b} submil all unresolved issues regarding  
"specilied payroll tems" and “specified employee  
benelits® to final offer interest arbitration in accordance  
with the procedure set forih in Section E.  
269  
### APPENDIX Z  
E,  
   
Interest Arbitration  
1  
If asbitration is required, it shall be a final offer package  
interest arbitration proceeding and the parties shall, not  
later than Juty 7, 1996, submit to the interest Arbitrator  
iheir respective final offer packages on all unresolved  
issues. Within twenty (20) days thereafter, each party  
shall submit to the Interest Arbitralor and to each other a  
detailed written stalement supporting Its position on their  
respective final offer packages before the Interest  
Arbitrator lor determination. Within ten (10) days  
subsequent to the filing of written of position  
with the Interest Arbitrator, the parties may file and  
written replies 1o each other's statements,  
which shail be resiricted lo responses to the other party's  
written statement. Subsequent to the af the  
written statements of position and replies, the Interest  
shall conduct hearings and shall render his  
dacisions in accordance with the Agraement.  
Prior to the commencement of hearings, representatives  
of the parties shall meet with ihe Interest Arbilrator and  
establish procedures to be followed at the hearing with  
tespect to ihe following matters: (i) order o! presentation,  
(i) allocation of time for the presentation, (iii) designation  
ot persons to present and commeni on parlies' positions,  
and {iv} such other procedural matiers as the Interest  
and the of ihe parties may  
agree upon.  
The Interest Arbitrator shali have no to add to,  
subtract fram or modify the final offer packages submitted  
by the parties, and the Arbitrator shall not be authorized  
to engage in mediation of the dispute.  
The Interest Arbitrator’s dacision shaff be to select one or  
the other of the final offer packages submitted by the  
parlies on the unresofved issues presented to arbitration.  
270  
   
The decision sha!) be in  
The Interest Arbitrators decision shall ba rendered no  
later than midnight, twenty-one (21) days after the clase  
af the hearing. Subsequent to the issuance of the  
Interest Arbitrator’s decision, the parties shall have ten  
{10} days to reach agreement as to any contract  
language and any other siaps required to implement the  
Interest decision. final agreement by  
the parties as to such language or other implementing  
slaps, elthar party may immediately reler any such  
unresclved questions to the Interest Arbitrator, who shall  
make a final and binding determination on such questions  
within ten {10} days thereafter.  
F. Conduct and Costs of the Interest Arbitration Hearing  
qs  
The record of the hearing shall include all documents,  
written stalements and exhibiis submitted, logether with  
a stenographic record, The Interest Arbitrator shall, in the  
absence of agreement of the parties, have authority to  
make whatever reasonable niles aré necessary for the  
conduct of an orderly hearing. In the formulation of such  
rules, the Interest Arbitrator shall be guided by ihe need  
to gather full information on all issues in an expeditious,  
orderty and informal manner. The Interest Arbilrator shall  
have the aulhority to limit the number of witnesses which  
the parlies may call in support of their respective  
positions on any issue before the Arbitrator when,  
in his judgment, it is necessary to the expedilious inquiry  
into the dispute.  
The Interest Arbitratos, al the hearing, may participate in  
ihe examination of wilnesses for the purpose of  
expediting the hearings or eliciting material facts. The  
Interes! Arbilrator may also request the parties to produce  
any evidence which ha deems relevant to the issues  
zit  
### APPENDIX Z  
baforg him.  
3. The hearing may be conducied informally and narrative  
preseniations by witnesses may be permitted in  
appropriate circumstances. The receip! of evidence at  
the hearing need not be by or  
common law rules of evidence.  
4, The compensation, costs and expenses of the Interest  
Arbiiraior shail be borne equally by the Union and the  
Company.  
G, Termination  
The provisions of Ihis Appendix shall have no application to any  
negovations conducted by the parties, olher than Ihose jnitiated  
in 1996 in accordance with Section D above, prior to the  
termination date of tha 1993 Agreemeni, and in no svent shall the  
provisions of this Appendix Z survive the termination date of the  
1993 unless otheraise agreed to by both parties.  
H. Arbitrator  
The Interest Arbitrator for the reopener shali be Mr. John Paul  
Simkins. the event of his death, resignation or unwillingness to  
serve, the parties shall joinily select a successor Interest Arbitrator  
who hag experience in the steel industry and Is able to comply  
with the timetable set farth above.  
272  
### APPENDIX AA  
### APPENDIX AA  
### LETTER AGREEMENT  
### CONCERNING  
### FLOATING HOLIDAY  
August 31, 1993  
Jack Parton, Director  
District 31, USWA,  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
Room 211  
East Chicago, IN 46312  
Dear Mr. Parton:  
This letter will confirm our understanding thai one floating holiday will be  
provided in each of he coniract years 1994, 1995 and 1996. The parties  
shalt agrea an which day the floating holiday shall be observed by not  
later than October 1 of the preceding year.  
Vary truly yours,  
G. J. Shope  
Vice President-Human Resources  
Acme Steel Company  
### CONFIRMED:  
Jack Parton, Director  
Negotiating Cornmitiee  
United Steelworkers of America  
273  
- APPENDIXBB ©“ "= 7  
### APPENDIX 8B  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### REGARDING  
### “AS iS, WHERE (S"  
August 21, 1893  
Jack Parton, Director  
District 31, USWA  
720 W. Chicago Avenue  
Room 211  
East Chicago, IN 48312  
Oear Mr. Parton:  
This will our understanding that an "As Is, Where is* sale of assets is a  
legitimate commercial transacilon that Is 4 businesa decision not designed Io  
deprive bargaining unit employees of work assignments,  
{t such sale of assets Involves the use of a vendor oF contracior to perform a  
service (6.9., scrap preparation) and such assets are subsequently returned for use  
of sale by the Company, such transaction sha# be considered as out  
and subject to the provisions of Article {l, Section C of this Agreement.  
Very truly yours,  
G. J, Shopa  
Vice President-Human Resources  
Acme Steel Company  
### CONFIRMED:  
Jack Dérecios  
Negotiating  
United of America  
274  
### APPENDIX CC  
### APPENDIX CC  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### CONCERNING  
### TRANSITIONAL PERIOD MATTERS  
During the of the 1993 Agreement, a joint Union-Management  
Sub-Committee, consisting of from both the Riverdaie and  
Chicago Plants, met and developed the following provisions. These  
provisions are designed to minimize ihe impact that the shuldown of  
opétations affected by the proposed new slab caster/hot strip mill facility  
(herematter referred to as ihe "new facility*) will have on Employment  
Security Plan eligble employees.  
A.  
### TRANSITIONAL EMPLOYEES  
Unti) the new facility is built and fully operational and the units  
affectad by this new facility are discontinued, the amployees and  
the Plants will be in 2 period of transition. Although it will be  
necessary to hire new employees to maintain production during  
this transitional period, the panies recognize that these  
needs will only be temporary in nature given  
the need to provide continued employment for Employment  
Security Plan efigibte employees that wil be displaced from  
affected unifs. Therefore, the parties have agreed ihat  
during the “transitional period" defined in Al below, the  
Company may ulilize the following limilec-ierm hiring  
mechanism to fill its hiring neads, hereinafter referred to as  
“transitional employees."  
1, The transitional period wilt commence on September 4,  
1993, and will end on the date when ail units affected by  
the new facility are discontinued (shut down) or one (1)  
year after the first marketable coil is produced at the new  
facility, whichever is the sarlier date. In no event shall  
the transitional period extend beyond September 1, 1997.  
276  
  
   
Ouring this transitional period, ihe Company may hire  
“transitional employees" to:  
a.  
tamporarity fill job openings in units that will be  
discontinued as result of the new facility. The  
job openings referred to are those that  
remain after the “divisional bidding process has  
been completed; and  
fill job openings In unaffected units  
that remain after the plantwide level of the  
bidding procedure has been completed, until  
replaced by Employment Security Pian eligble  
affected by a downgrading or  
displaced by the new facillty; and  
temporarily fill vacancles resulting trom Iraining of  
far the new facilily, i being  
understaod that the temporary vacancies  
to herein are those remaining atter Employment  
Security Plan eligible employees have exercised  
their temporary vacancy rights,  
No transitional employee will be hired while any  
employee fram the bargalning unit whe is not a  
transitional employee is aff trom the plant.  
This Agreement shall not apply to an employee  
who Is hired or rehired for a trade or craft job  
during the transitional period. Such emplayees  
who complete thelr probationary period shall  
receive full continuous service credit from iheir  
date of hire or rehire on that trade or cralt job, or  
fiom thelr last effective date of hire as a  
transitional employee if Subsection A2h Is  
applicable,  
A fansitional emptoyee is one who, by definite  
276  
### APPENDIX CC  
arrangement between him/her and Management,  
is hired during the transitional partod for a limited  
period not to exceed the end of the transitional  
period for the purposes set forth in this  
Agreement. Sefore hiring a transilional  
employee, Management shall advise hinvher of  
the provisions o} this Agreement. The transitional  
employee will, by accepting employment, signify  
ihe acceptance of the terms and condilions af  
transitional employment, Transitional employees  
shall receive the same orientation as that  
presenily provided to new employees. The  
Chairman of the Grievance Committes will be  
notified, in writing, of ihe names and clock  
numbers of transitional employees.  
The tarmms and conditions of transitional  
employees will be the same as provided all other  
employees Covered by the Agreement except:  
(1} No credit for continuous service except  
for vacation purposes. Transitional  
employees will be provided transitional  
“promotion,” “retention” and “recall”  
rights as set forth In A3 below.  
(2) Lengih of employment will be for a  
limited term not exceeding ihe end of the  
transitional period,  
(3) Newly hired transitional employees and  
those transitional) employees rehired after  
a break in transitional employment may  
be laid off, discharged or  
ferminated as exclusively determined by  
Management during thelr first $20 hours  
of aciual work and, except as sei forth in  
AZ below, wansilional employees may  
  
   
ee  
### APPENDIX CC  
(4)  
(5)  
(6)  
ee  
— eee  
hereatier be transtferred, faid off, or  
terminated in response to adjustmenis  
in manpower needs as exclusively  
determined by Management, provided  
thal this will not be used for purposes of  
discrimination because of race, color,  
religious creed, national orgin, ar sex,  
os because of membership In the Union.  
The provisions ol Article XVI, Section 7  
{Probationary Employees) will not apply  
to @ transitional employee, A transi-  
tlonal employee will have recourse to  
the complainignevance procedure fo  
protesi vialation of any provision of the  
Agreement applicable to transitional  
employees. Aftar completion of the 520  
hour period referenced In 2b{3) above, a  
transitional employee shall also have  
recourse to the complaini/grievance  
procedura concaming those  
refetenced in Article V, Section 11 of the  
### Agreement.  
Transitional employees shail not be  
covered by the provisions of the  
“Employment Securlty Pian.”  
Notwithstanding any other provision of  
ihis Memorandum, the parties agree  
that the provisions contained within  
Paragraphs 3.6 and 3.70 of the Program  
of Insurance Benefits will apply to  
transitional employees.  
The Company and the Union shall jointly add  
ress and solve any issues or conflicts  
transitional employees that are not covered by  
278  
### APPENDIX CC  
the tarms of this Agreament via the "Employment  
Securily/Productivity Committee."  
To the extent possible while maintaining  
compliance with applicable employment laws and  
the Company's Allirmative Action Program, the  
Campany shall give prelerence to applicants pos-  
sessing the required skills who have heen  
separated irom USWA sieel producing plants  
located within District 31. District 31 will provide  
the Company with @ “ekills bank" listing such  
individuals and the akilts thai they possess when  
such becomes available.  
No transitional employee shall remain as of the  
end of the transitional period,  
Transitional Employee Severance Bonus  
(1) A fransitional employee who has  
accumulated 26 or more total weeks of  
active transilional employment and who  
is terminated when the Company  
Geiermines that the need for his/her  
transitional employment has ceased shail  
receive @& severance bonus in  
accordance with the table below,  
Total Weeks of Acting Weeks vf  
Employment Seyerance Bonus  
26 weeks bul (asa than 52 weeks  
52 weeks bul lass than 104 weeks  
104 weeks tad less ihan 187 wooka  
1B7 weeks or mare  
  
A week of active transitional employment  
is defined as a week in which the  
279  
   
  
   
Se  
Ne  
employes actually worked as a  
transitional employes.  
(2} This severance bonus shall not be paid  
to any transitional employee who céases  
employment for any reason other than  
that set forth in 2f(1} above.  
(3) A week's severance bonus shall be  
determined in accordance with the  
provisions for calculation of vacation pay  
as set forth in Article Xt, Vacations.  
{4) Payment shal! ba made in a lump sum  
within thirty (30) days of the date of the  
transitional employee's termination.  
(5) Payment of this severance bonus shall  
not be duplicated for the same weeks  
worked. Any weeks previously used to  
establish entitlement to a severance  
honus shall not bs counted further to  
establish io a subsequent  
severance bonus.  
In the event that a transitional employes Is re-  
hired by the Company ai the same Plant within  
ihe two (2) week period following the and of the  
transitional period, that employee’s Plant  
continuous service dale upon rehire will be  
his/her last effective daia of hire as a transitional  
employes.  
lf, during the transitional period, the Company  
rehires a transitional employee for a bargain-  
Ing unit job al the same Plant as other than a  
transitional employee within two (2) weeks of  
his/her termination as a transitional employee,  
280  
### APPENDIX CC  
   
ihat employee's Ptant continuous service date  
upon rehire will be his/her last effective dais of  
hire as a transitional employee.  
Transitional employees will be provided the following  
transitional “promotion,” “retention” and *recaii* rights, only  
in competition with other transitional employees. A  
transitional employes shall have such transitional sights  
only in the division in which he/she was hired or, in the  
case of a rehire, ihe division in which he/she was last  
rehired a break in transitional emptoyment. This  
division shall be the transitional employes's “home”  
division. “Length of transitional employment’ as used  
herein shall be calculated from the date of hire as a  
transitional employee, or the date of rehire as a2  
transitional employee following a break in transitional  
employment, whichever is ihe last effective date.  
a. Transitional Retention  
{1} When determining which of two or more  
transitional employees ithe  
same job will be aflectad by a force  
reduction, the transitional employee  
“holding” that job with the latest hiring  
date shall be the first affected.  
(2) A transitional employes with ane or more  
years of transitional employment (which  
shalt be changed, effective January 1,  
1995, to a transitional employee who  
has completed 520 hours of actual  
work since his/her last effective date of  
hire or rehire) who is reduced from a job  
rated al JC-3 or higher will, prior to  
being {aid off or terminated, displace the  
mast “junior” (least tength of transitional  
261  
### APPENDIX CC  
(3)  
employment) transifona!l employee in the  
labor group of that division, provided  
he/she is qualilisd to perlarm that job  
and he/she has a greater length of  
transitional employment than = the  
transitionat employee he/she would  
displace.  
Except as expressly provided by 2a(1)  
and 2a(2} above, a transitlonal empicyee  
shall have no other bumping or retention  
rights.  
Transitional Pramotian  
(1)  
(2)  
The basic principles set forth in  
Paragraph D of the Seniority Rules and  
Understandings 17 and  
48 shall apply to competition between  
bansitional for  
vacancies on jobs in theit home division.  
Length of transitional employment shail  
be used in place of the senlority factor  
“continuous service.”  
Transitional employees with one of more  
years of transitional employment may  
“bid” on the opportunity to job  
openings of the type described in Ai(a)  
and Ai(o) of this Agreement in their  
home division before a new transilional  
employee is hired to fill such opening.  
Elfective November 14, 1994,  
employees who have completed 520  
hours of actual work since their last  
elfective date of hire or rehire bul who  
have not completed one year of  
transitional employment may also “bid"  
262  
### APPENDIX CC  
(3)  
on the opportunity to fill job openings of  
ihe type described in A1(a) and A1(b) of  
this Agreement in their home division,  
subject to a oj one job award  
during such period, before a new  
transitional employee ts hired te fill such  
opening. The basic seniority principles  
sel forth in Article XVI, Section 1(A} af  
the Agreement shal) apply except that  
langth of transitional employment shail  
be used in place of the seniority tacior  
“transitional service.” Such a “bid” will  
be posted for transitional  
employees in the applicable division  
using posting procedures equivalent to  
those sel forth in Paragraph C of the  
Seniority Rules.  
Excepl as expressly provided in 3b{1)  
and 3b(2) above, a iransitional employes  
shall have no other promotionat rights.  
Transitional Recall  
(1)  
{2)  
A transitional emptoyee who is “laid off  
shall have transitionat recall tights onfy fo  
the job he/she fast (by hire or  
transitional “bid"). The transitional  
amployee “laid off" Irom that job with the  
greatest tength of transitional  
employment will be the first recalled.  
4 transitionat employee with one or more  
years of transitional employment (which  
shall be changed, elleciive January 1,  
1998, to a transitional emplayee who has  
compleied 520 hours of actual work  
since his/her last effactive date of hire or  
283  
   
### APPENDIX CC  
rehire} at the time of hisfier will ~*~  
atso have recai} rights to the labor group  
of his/her home division until recalled to  
the job described in above.  
(3) Except as expressly provided in 3(1)  
and 3¢(2) above, a transitional employee  
shall have no other recail nghis.  
a. Tha above described transitional rights are  
cancelled when a transitional employee  
a break in transitional employment  
{discharge, terminalion, quit, etc.). All transitional  
rights not previously cancelled shall be cancelled  
as of the end of the transitional period.  
8. A transitional employes may not be utilized in a  
manner that would violate the seniority or  
avertime of an employse in the bargaining  
unit who is Nol a transitional employee.  
1. Transitional employées shali be displaced by  
downgrades before employees in the bargaining  
unit who are not transitional employees.  
g. Transitional employees will not be assigned to  
the new tacility.  
### B. SPECIAL BICDING FIGHTS FOR EMPLOYEES PRESENTLY  
### REGULARLY ASSIGNED TO AFFECTED JOBS  
During the transitional period, the parties agree to permit  
employees (other thar iransitiona) employees) on jobs that will be  
affacied (discontinued) as a resull of this new facility io pre-  
establish reguiar assignment rights (and seniority dates) on jobs  
in the remaining facilities via the plantwide bidding procedure, 1  
is recognized that employees who pre-establish such righls In  
284  
   
### APPENDIX CC  
accordance with this provision will be required to remain in their  
affected job/unit until that job/unit is discontinued. The jobs that  
they pre-establish such rights to will, in the interim, be filled as a  
temporary vacancy or by a transillonal employee. Ouring the  
period that such an employee has pre-established regular  
assignment slatus in another division via this provision, he/she  
shall have bidding rights in thal new division while retaining  
his/her bidding rights in his/her prasent division. A joint Unian-  
Management committes will be formed to further develop the  
proceduras necessary to elfect this provision. if no commitment  
ig made {6 build the new lacility, an employee who has pre-  
established ragular assignment rights on another job pursuant lo  
this Section B shall have the right to void that pre-established  
fight.  
### ATTRITION REDUCTION INDUCEMENT/RETIREMENT  
### INCENTIVE  
The parties recognize that it is in their mutual interest to minimize  
the Company's hiting needs during the transitional period. The  
parties believe thal this can be accomplished by providing an  
appropriate monetary inducement to experlenced employess, who  
may otherwise retire during the transitional period, to encourage  
them to ramain actively af work until the end ol the transitional  
period. Therefore, in order to encourage such employees to  
remain actively at work during, and then retire at the end of, the  
iransitional period, the following Altrition Reduction  
Inducement/Ratirement Incentive (hereinafter referred ta as the  
"ARI/Al*} shall be offared to eligible employees.  
1, Eligibility  
An eligible employee is one who is eligible tor sither a  
*Normal,” "62/15," or *30-Year* retirament and who retires  
via a "Normal," "62/15," of setirement in  
accordance with C3  
285  
### APPENDIX CC  
2. ARURI Amount  
In that the length of time that each employes  
defars retirement to receive this inducement will differ, the  
following formula has been developed to more equitably  
calculate each  
a. Tolling Date - shall be the date that the  
employee has first become eligible for either a  
“Normal,” “62/15" or “30-Year” retirement. In no  
event shall the tolling date be earlier than  
September 3, 1993.  
b. End Date - shall be the day before the  
effective date of in  
accordance with C3 below.  
c. Months of Active Employment - shall be the  
number of equivalent rounded to the  
nearest month, between the employes's tolling  
date and and date, minus any equivalent months,  
rounded to tha nearest month, that the employee  
was absent fram work on leave{s) of absence  
fincluding a ‘special leave of [n  
rounding to the nearest month, a remainder of 16  
days or more will be rounded up and a remainder  
of 15 days or less will be rounded down.  
d. An eligible employee's ARI/RI is calculated as  
loflows:  
ARIA = $250.00 X "Months of Active  
Employment*  
3. Date  
In order to periect eligibility for the ARVRI, an otherwise  
286  
### APPENDIX CC  
eligible employse must retire at the end of the transitional  
period defined in Al above or on an earlier date specified  
by the Company.  
&,  
Any eligible employes who is notified that he/she  
may retire on a dale specified by the Company  
that is eartior than the end of the transitional  
period shall have no more than thirty (30)  
calendar days from the dale of such notice in  
which to notify the Company of his/her dacision.  
i such employee notifies the Company that  
he/she has decided to retire within this 30 day  
period, ha/she shall be required Io retire no later  
than the end of the calendar month thal such  
notification is provided to the Company. If such  
employes does not notify the Company that  
he/she will retwe in accordance with the above,  
he/she shall no longer be eligible for ARVRI.  
Any eligible employee who is not notified that  
he/she has the opportunity fo relire on a date  
earlier (han the end of the transitional period shall  
have no more than thinly (30) calendar days after  
ndtilication (date of the notification letter) by the  
Company at the and of the transitional period to  
notify the Company of his/her retirement decision.  
Such Company notification shall be in writing,  
sent via certified mail to each eligibla amployee’s  
last submitied address in his/her employment  
record. ff such employes notifies the Company  
that he/she has decided to retire within this 30  
day period, he/she shall be required to relira no  
later than the end of the calendar month that  
such ackificalion is provided to the Company. If  
such employee does not notity the Company that  
he/she will retire in accordance with the above,  
he/she shalt no longer be eligible for the ARI/Ai.  
287  
   
### APPENDIX CC  
4,  
Payment of the ARVRI  
The shall be paid in a lump sum payment  
upon retirement at the same time that the  
“special payment” (referenced in paragraph 3.2  
of the “Pansion Agreement’) is paid.  
The ARI/RI shall be a pension entitlement pald  
in addition to the pension and “special payment”  
and shall not be therefrom.  
### SENIORITY RULES  
   
### AGREEMENT ON RULES FOR THE APPLICATION  
### OF THE SENIORITY FACTORS  
### (SENIORITY AULES)  
This Agreement shall be August 30, 1965, and shall not  
be applied retroactively.  
The parties agree as follows:  
A. Purpose, Guides and Types of Continuous Service  
1.  
The purpose of this Agreement Is to establish  
new rules for ihe application of the seniority  
factors set forth in Article XVI, Section 1 of the  
Basic Labor Agreement (ihe terms “continuous  
service,” “ability” and “physical finass” as used  
herein shall have the same meaning as the  
meaning of factors “{a),” “(b)” and “(c)” in that  
Section 3) in accordance with the provisions of  
Artide XVI, Section 2 of said Agreement io  
replace any saeniorty rules, practices or  
understanding now in effect which are  
inconsisient herewith with the exception of such  
seniority cules a8 are specifically set forth in  
Articila XVi of the Basic Labor Agreement and  
the following:  
(a) Agreements made pursuant to Ihe last  
paragraph ol Articla XVi, Section 1(C}  
which shall remain in effect unless  
canceled of amended by mutual  
agreement, and  
(b) The seniority miles applicable to the  
Steel Producing and Primary Rolfing Mill  
239  
   
### SENIORITY RULES  
Divisions which are set forth in Appendix  
A to this Agreement and made a pan  
hereol.  
The basic guides used In establishing the new  
senionty rules fave been the principle that  
employment security should incraase with  
coniinuous service and the recognition of the  
of Management for the  
operation of the Plant.  
There shalt be three types of service, as  
follows:  
(a) Sectlonal service (service in a panicular  
section within a division). Sectlonat service  
dates in the respective sections in elfect  
as of the eéffactive date of this  
Agreement shall be continued in effect  
unless or until canceled as hereinatter  
provided,  
{b) — Divislonad sarvica (service in a particular  
division). Divisional service dates In ihe  
raspective divisions in afiect as of the  
elfective date of this Agreement shal be  
continued in ¢flect unless or until canceled  
as herelnatter provided.  
{e) Plant service (service at the Riverdale Plant  
plus service at the Archer Avanue Plant for  
certain The Plant service dates  
of employees in effect as of the effective  
dala of this Agreement shall be continued In  
effect unless or until canceled In accordance  
with Article XVI of the Basic Labor  
### Agreement.  
290  
   
### SENIORITY RULES  
Whenever an employee's Plant service is broken as provided  
in Article XVI of the Basic Labor Agreement, his sectional and  
divisional service shall also be broken. In addiflon, sectional  
service shall be broken by @ permanent io another  
section, and divisional service shall be broken by a permanent  
transfer to another division.  
In the event that two of more employees hava the same  
sectional sarvice, divislanal sarvica shall be used to break the  
tie, and if their divisional service is the same, then Plant  
service shall be used fo break the tie, and if their Plani service  
is the same, then the employee number (lowest being most  
senior) shall be used to break the tie.  
Employees who complele their probaiionary period shall  
receive full divisional service as well as Plant service from the  
date of ofginal hiring. For such employees sectional service  
shall start as of the date thay enter a section of a division.  
Uses of Types of Continuous Service  
1. Sectional service shall apply to an  
movement (inctuding recall) within a section af a  
division in Job Class 5 and above unless otherwise  
indicated on the appropriate seniority unit chart.  
Z. Divisional service shall apply to an emplayes’s  
movement recall) within a section of a  
division in Job Class 4 and below unless otherwise  
indicated on the appropriate seniority unit chart, to  
tamporary transfers within a division, lo downgrading  
ta the division labar group, and to promolians from the  
division labor  
3. Piant servica shall apply to layofis from a division  
labor group, to recalls to any division iabor group, and  
to lemporary transiers trom a division labor group to  
291  
   
### SENIORITY RULES  
another division.  
C. Posting of Job Openings  
1.  
In accordance with Aricle XVI, Section 3, all  
permanent vacancies which cannot be by recall  
or job assignment pursuant ta Paragraph G below  
shall be posted in the division in which the vacancy  
develops or is expected to develop for thrae working  
days, specifying the job title or general jab tlle of the  
vacancy. In addition to posting the general job title,  
the vacant job assignment will be identified il the  
posted job has been recognized as including more  
than one job assignment under paragraph G below.  
Ht such vacancy fs In a division labor group or is not  
filled at the division level of the bidding procedure, it  
shail be posted at the Plant gates for three working  
days. In applying the seniority factor “continuous  
service,” first consideration will be given to  
apnlicants pannanently assigned within the section  
for any posted job above the iowest ranked job in  
the section Involved using sectional service;  
divisional service shall be used when such vacancy  
is not filled trom among the emplayses in the section  
involved and for the lowest ranked fob In each  
section in the division; and Plant service shall be  
used when a vacancy is posted at the Plant gate  
level of the bidding procedure. When a posiing  
cavers more than one job opening, such posting  
shalt specify the number.  
An employes who Is pemnanenily transierred under  
the provisions of Paragraph C1 above, Irom one  
saction to another in his division, cantels his seciion  
service in, and rght of recali to, the section irom  
which he was iransterred; likewise, an employee  
who Is so translerred from one division to another  
cancels his sectional and divisional service in, and  
292  
### SENIORITY RULES  
right of recall to, the section and division from which  
he was so lansterred.  
3. When an employee who is pernanently translerred  
under the provisions of Paragraph C1 above to a job  
in a new section or division work on such job,  
he shall receive continuous service credit from the  
date of the awarding of the job vacancy.  
4, The Company shail post the name of the employee  
awarded the posted vacancy.  
5. Each employee (excluding probationary employees}  
who desires to do 50 may have absentee bids on file  
for assignment to other jabs. Such absentee bids  
may be canceled by the employee at any time. in  
case an employee ia absent trom the Plant due to  
vacation, in-plant injury, of previously approved  
leave of absence (ather than FMLA leave or non  
industrial medical leave of absence} during the entire  
posting period for a vacancy and had on file an  
absentee bid for assignment to the vacancy that is  
posted, such absentee bid will be considered along  
with other bids filed. No absentee bid will be  
considered if the employee works at any time during  
the posting period.  
0 Temporary Promotions  
In filling lemporary vacancies under the provisions of  
Anicla XVI, Section 5 of the Basic Labor Agreement,  
an employee will be temporarily assigned to a  
temporary vacancy if he has notified his supervisor in  
writing {forms te be iumishad by the Company) na  
later than during his last turn worked before the first tum  
on which ihe vacancy occurs that he desires assignment  
to the vacancy, and so long as assigning him Is io  
the grealest degree consisten! with the following  
293  
### SENIORITY RULES  
principles: the efficiency of the aparation, the safety of the  
employees, and the concept of providing training for  
employees older in service to qualify them for future  
permanent promotion In which they are interested. [f no  
employee can be temporarily assigned as provided above,  
then the supervisor may fill ihe vacancy in a manner  
consistent wilh the above principles. Temporary assignment  
normaly will be made from within crews where such exist and  
from the turn on which the vacancy Occurs,  
E Downgrading and Layoff  
1, Employees in a section of a division who are affected  
by a reduction in ihe workforce shall be raassigned  
within their general job fitle (lf applicable) in  
accordance with Paragraph G or downgraded in their  
section to jobs {including a jab which may be below  
their section) which they are qualified to periorm, in  
accordance with the appropriate seniority unit chart.  
Any employee so downgraded may, within three (3)  
days from the effective date of Ihe downgrade,  
request an opportunity to displace a shorter sarvice  
employee in a higher ranked job than that from which  
he was downgraded in the same section, provided his  
attendance card shows he has previously  
perlormed the job for not less than thirty (30) days;  
and he stilt has the ability and physical fitness lo  
periorm it. If a request is made under this Paragraph  
E1 befora Monday, any moves resulling therefrom will  
be reftected on the schedule posied the following  
Thursday. If the request ts made after Sunday, any  
moves resulting therefrom will be reflected on the  
schedule posted on Thursday of the following week.  
2 Before baing downgraded to ihe labor group of his  
division, an employes whe has been downgraded  
out of his section temporarily transferred to  
254  
### SENIORITY RULES  
   
the job in the seniority pool above the labor group in  
that division held by the employes with the leas!  
divisional service in Job Class 4 or below (unless  
othenwise indicated on the appropriate seniority unit  
chart), provided he is qualified io perform that job  
and he has greater divisional service than the  
employee he would displace. (Such an employee's  
sectional service in any new section to which he is  
iransferted shall start as of the date of Ihe temporary  
transfer.) tn the event that more than one  
is being temporarily transferred aa provided above  
on the same date, the Company will make an effor  
prior to the transier to give the employee with the  
greatest divisional service his choice of the jobs on  
which employees would be displaced as provided  
above, except that such choice wil be kmited where  
any of such temporarily transferred employees is  
qualified to perform only one or more of the jobs  
from which employees are being displaced, In order  
to avoid such continually disrupting crews  
or other work groups, the Company shall not be  
obligated to make such transiers if & betieves there  
will be downgradings within the next thirty  
(30) days which would cause emplcyses so  
temporarily to be downgraded out of jobs  
to which they might have been temporarily  
transferred.  
When an employee is laid off fram his division (i.6.,  
he cannot be retained in the division labor group on  
the basis of his Plant service, ability or physical  
fitness) and at thé outset the Company beliaves the  
layott wilt last thirty (90) days or more, he shail,  
one (1) week atter thea date of the layoff fi.e.,  
effective for the second week iotlowing ine date of  
the layolf) if he Is not eligible for ihe “Employment  
Security Plan’ (See Appendix R-1} of effective for tha  
week immediately following the date of the layoit  
295  
   
### SENIORITY RULES  
if he is eligible for the “Employment Security Plan,”  
transfer temporarily on the basis of his Plant servico,  
to the job in the seniority poo ot any division (jobs up  
to and inctuding JC-4 uniess otherwise Indicated on  
the approprate seniority unit chart) held by the  
employee with the least Plant provided he is  
qualified to perform that job and he has greater Plant  
service than the employee he would displace. Any  
employee who is determined to be eligible for  
temporary transfer pursuant to this Paragraph ES  
must accept such temporary transter. Any such  
employse who falls or retuses to accept such  
temporary transfer will be terminated pursuant to  
Article XVI, Sectlon 8, Paragraph (2)(d) of the Labor  
Agreement, as such temporary iransier wil) be  
considered as a recall for the purposes of XVI,  
Section §, Paragraph (2)(d) of the Labor Agreernent.  
A iemporarily amployee's service in his  
new section and division shail start as of the date of  
the temporary transter. {ts agreed thal the Company  
Shall not be obligated to temporarily transfer any  
employee under this paragraph unless he has al least  
tweive (12) months of Plant service and has at least  
one (1) month more Plant service than the employee  
he would displace, and it Is further agreéd that the  
Company shail noi be obligated to temporarily transfer  
any empfoyee under this paragraph if such transter  
would seriously dismupi crews or olher work graups.  
in the event that mora than one employes is belng  
temporarly transferred as provided above on the  
same date, the Company will make an effort prior to  
the transfer to give the employee with the greatest  
Plant his choice of the jobs on which  
employees would be displaced as provided above,  
provided the employee has submitted a “Paragraph  
E3° Placement Preference Form” to iha Human  
296 .  
### SENIORITY RULES  
Resources Department by the Manday following his  
layoH if he is nat eligible for the "Employment Security  
Plan” (See Appendix F-1} or betore 4:00 P.M. of the  
Tuesday preceding the effective date of his layoff if he  
is eligible for the “Employment Security Plan;” except  
thal such choice will be limilad where any of such  
temporarily transfered employees is qualified to  
perform only one or more of the jobs from which  
employees are being displaced.  
It Is recognized thal because at times the situation in  
cerain divisions may be more critical than in others,  
and that because the type of skills in one division may  
be more closely related to skills required in another  
division, temporary transfers as provided in this  
Paragraph E3 may not be evenly divided among the  
divisions (l.e., ii may not be possible under all  
to the same number of  
opportunities in each division or to assure the fact that  
all employees retained in the various divisions have  
relatively equal Plant service).  
4. The following ig tha procedure which will be followed  
in applying the foregoing rules to downgrading an  
employee in a section of a division (including  
downgrading to jobs which may be below his section}  
in accordance with the appropriate seniority unit chart,  
The most junior employes in the highest ranked job  
alfected in the section of the division will displace the  
mast junior employee in that section that he can  
displace in the highest ranked job below the job from  
which he was downgraded. The same procedure will  
apply in connection with the downgrading of the next  
most junior employee in the affected job until the  
required number of employees have been  
downgraded from the highest ranked job affected.  
297  
   
### SENIORITY RULES  
5,  
   
Ee  
—— ee  
Thereakter, the same procedure wil be applied  
to employees in each of the successively lower  
jobs (including employeas who were  
displaced by from higher ranked  
jobs) until the required number of employees  
have been downgraded.  
An employee who, because of helng on vacation  
at the time of a downgrading atiecting him, was  
unable to request an opportunity to displace a  
shorter service employee in a higher tanked job  
than that from which he was downgraded in the  
same section, may make such request after he  
retums from vacation provided thal ha makes  
the request within thras (3) days from the date  
of his retum. Such requests will otherwise be  
subject to ithe same considerations and  
as would have been the case if the  
employee invelved had not besn on vacatian.  
F Recalls  
1.  
When the working force is increased or a  
permanant vacancy occurs, employees will be:  
recalled io the division, section of the division, or  
job/general job tite in the section from which  
they were originally downgraded, temporarity  
transferred, or laid off in accordance with the  
appropriate seniority unit chart and the  
applicable type of continuous service involved, it  
being understood that ance an employee is  
recaliad to his divislon or section of his division,  
he shall be subject to recafl fo and must accept  
any job which he !s quallfied to perform in his  
recall path that is ranked lower than the job from  
which he was originally downgraded until he is  
recalled io the job or general job titte from which  
he was originally downgraded.  
298  
ee eee  
### SENIORITY RULES  
2.  
An employee temporarily transferred to another  
section in his division or downgraded to the labor  
group of his division in accordance with Paragraph E2  
above musi accep! recall as provided in Paragraph F1  
unless by mutual agreement between the Company  
and the Union he is allowed to remain in his new  
section of in the labor group, in which event his  
sectional service in the section irom which he was  
. downgraded or transferred shall be canceled.  
An employee temporarily translerred to another  
division in accordance with Paragraph E3 above must  
accept recall as provided In Paragraph F1 unless by  
mutual agreement between the Company and the  
Union he is allowed to remain in his new division, In  
which avent his divisional senice and sectional  
service in the section and division trom which he was  
temporarily transferred or downgraded shall be  
canceled.  
All divisional and sectional service which an employes  
has accumulated in a or division to which he  
was temporarily transferred shall be canceled as of  
the date of any later tamporary transler to another  
section or division, or as of the date of later  
from the Plant or as of the date that the employee is  
recalled to his original division or section.  
When the need arses to recall an employee laid olf  
trom the Plant to the labor group of a division other  
than the division from which such employee was laid  
off originally, such recall will be made using Plant  
service as the continuous sericea facior. Such  
employee will be obligated to accept such recall and  
any failure or refusal to accept such recall will result  
ina break in continuous service pursuant to Article  
299  
   
——= — ee -  
- — we me eee ee ee  
   
### SENIORITY RULES  
XVI, Section 8, Paragraph {2)(d} of the Labor  
Agreement.  
G Job Assignment Requests  
L Job Assignment Requests, where assignments are  
not rotated, for to specific  
assignments in a general job title in a section of a  
division may be made as follows:  
{a} Employses who remain in a general job  
title and who have been alfected by the  
downgrading may request transfer on the  
basis of their applicable type of con-  
tinuous service to the assignments in that  
general job tile which have been made  
available by the downgrading.  
{b} Employees wha have been downgraded  
io a general job title may request transter  
on the basis of thelr applicable type of  
continuous service to the assignments  
which are open as a result of the  
downgrading in the general job tille to  
which they have been dewngraded.  
{c} When a permanent vacancy occurs on  
an assignment in a general job iltle, the  
presen! incumbents ot that general job  
title who are on other assignments within  
that general job title may transfer to such  
vacancy on the basis of their applicable  
type of continuous service before such  
vacancy is filled by recall or by bid,  
provided a raquesi is made in writing at  
least two weeks before the vacancy is  
filted.  
300  
### SENIORITY RULES  
{d) Emptoyees who have been recalled to a  
general job tile may request Wansfer on the  
basis of their applicable type of continuous  
service to the assignments which were filled  
in that general fob title by such recalls.  
(e} An employes who permanently transfers to a  
general job tife pursuant ta the provisions of  
Paragraph C (Posting of Job Openings) will  
initially be placed on the assignment which was  
identified on the job posting and award. Such a  
newly iranslerred employes may, when  
applicable, request ransfar to other  
assignments in that general job tite in  
accordance with ithe other provisions of this  
Section G.  
2. Any such requests will be granted by tha Company  
within two weeks after it is made provided: (1) in the  
cases ai Subparagraphs Gi(a), Gi(b) and G1(d)  
above, It is made nol more than three days after the  
downgrading or promotion is effective, {2) the  
employees involved are qualified to perform the  
assignments, and {3) ihe changes in assignments do  
not require avertime payments to affectuaies the  
changes.  
3. Job Assignment Requests may be withdrawn al any time  
" by written request on forms furnished by the Company;  
however, such withdrawals wil not be effective until two  
weeks after the written request is received by the  
Company. The amptoyee shall receive a copy af his  
written request.  
301  
### SENIORITY RULES  
H Exception to Rules  
Exceptions may be made in the rules for application of  
seniority factors set forth in this Agreement and their  
application by mutual agreement In writing signed by the  
Locai Union President, Chainmian of the Grievance  
Committes, and the Manager of Human Resources or his  
designated representative.  
[| Rules tor Supplementary Agreements  
Supplementary seniority rules may be made in a division  
which are not inconsistent with the tules set forth in this  
Agreement, bul such rules must be in writing and must be  
signed by the international Representative, Local Union  
President, Chairman of the Committee, the Vice  
President of Human Resources or his designated  
representative, and ihe Manager of Human Resources or  
nis. designated representative before being placed [nto  
effect.  
J Transitional Employees  
The provisions applicable to “transitional employess" are set  
forth in Appendix CC ("Mamorandum of Agreement  
Concerning Transitional Period Matters"),  
### SENIORITY RULES - APPENDIX A  
### APPENDIX A  
### SENIORITY RULES APPLICABLE TO THE STEEL  
### PRODUCING AND PRIMARY ROLLING MILL DIVISIONS  
A. = Introduction  
There shal be a single seniority unit in each of the divisions to  
which ihe icllowing rules shall apply. Certain of Ihe jobs in these  
divisions have besn assigned to crews while other jobs in these  
divisions are outside of the crews, The designated  
crews in the Slee! Producing Division and the jobs assigned thereto  
as of the date of this Agreament are set forth in Exhibit A attached  
to this Appendix and made a pan The jobs outside of Ihe  
designated crews in ihe Steal Producing Division are as set forth in  
Exhibii A-1 attached hereto and made a part heract. Likewise, the  
designated crews in the Primary Rolling Mill Division and the jobs  
assigned thereto as of the date of this Agreement are set forth in  
Exhibit 8 attached hereto and made a part hereof, and the jobs  
outside oj ihe designated craws in said division are as set forth in  
Exhibit B-1 atiached hereto and made a part  
Employees having seniority in these divisions shall have only  
divisional service and Plant service In these divisions as those  
terms aré delined in the Agreement to which this Appendix is  
attached. Notwithstanding any other provision of said  
Agreement, no employee shall have a divisional service date in  
the Stes! Producing Division or the Primary Rolling Mill Division  
which is earlier than June 28, 1959, or April 27, 1959,  
respectively; and it is agreed that amployees originally hirad  
by the Company for key jobs in those divisions pricr to the  
date specified above for the respective division shall be  
considered to have greater Plant than the other  
employees in their respective divisions but only for the purpose  
of determining the order of iayoff from the labor groups of the  
respective divisions when such a layoff is ior an indefinite  
303  
—S ae aww were es se oe —— es ee ee  
### SENIORITY RULES - APPENDIX A  
penad.  
B. Uses of Types of Continuous Service  
1.  
Divisional service shall apply to an employse’s movement  
{including recall) within his division excepl as otherwise  
indicated on the appropriate seniority unii chart.  
Plant service shall apply to layoffs from a division labor  
group, to recalls to any division jabor group, and to  
temporary transfers from a division labor group to another  
division.  
C. Posting of Job Openings  
1.  
In accordance with Artide XVI, Section 3, all parmanent  
vacanclas which cannot be lilled by recall shail be posted In  
the division in which the vacancy develops or is expected to  
davelop for four (4} working days, specifying the job or  
general jab tite of tha vacancy. lf such vacancy ig in e  
division labor group or is not filled at the division level of the  
bidding procedure, it shall be posted at the Plant gates for  
three (3) working days. In applying the seniority factor  
“coniinuous service,” divisional service shall be used in  
comparing applicants for any posted job above the jobs in  
the division fabor group and Plant service shail be used  
when @ vacancy is posted at the Plant gate level of the  
bldeing procadure. Under normal circumstances, posted  
fobs in @ designated crew wilt be filled fram among the  
applicants fram that crew: however, the Company may, but  
will not be obligated to, consider applicants from ouiside the  
crew. When a posting covers more than one job opening,  
such posting shall specify the number.  
An employee who is permanently transferred under the  
provisions of Paragraph Ci above from a job in a  
designated crew cancels his right of recall to jobs in the  
crew from which he was transferred; likewise, an employee  
34  
   
### SENIORITY RULES - APPENDIX A  
who is so lransterred irom one division to another cancels  
his divisional service in, and right of recall to, the division  
from which he was so transferred.  
3, The Company shall post the name of the employee  
awarded tha posted vacancy,  
Temporary Promotions  
The provisions of Paragraph D of the Agreement to which this  
Appendix is attached shall apply to the divisions covered by this  
Appendix.  
Downgrading and Layoff  
1,  
Employees who are affected by a reduction in the work  
force shall be downgraded in their respective designated  
crews to jobs therein which they are qualified to perform in  
accordance with the appfopriata seniority unit chart.  
Employees downgraded out of their designaled crew or  
employees on jobs oulside of designated crews shall be  
downgraded io jobs outside of designaied crews which they  
are qualified to perform in accordance with the appropriate  
unit chan. An employee who is downgraded  
within or aut of his dasignaled crew may, wilhin three (3)  
days trom the effective date of Ihe dawnprada, request an  
oppartunity to displace a shorter service employee in a  
higher ranked job than that from which he was downgraded  
in the designated crew in/from which he was downgraded,  
provided hig aitendance record shows he has previously  
performed the Job for not Jess than thirty {30) days and he  
still has the ability and physical fitness to perform it. In  
addition, an employee who has been downgraded out of  
his original designated crew may request, within the lime  
limit specified above, an Opportunity to displace the most  
junior employes in anoiher designated crew on a job to  
which he had been previously permanently assigned and  
is qualified to perform, provided he has greater division  
305  
### SENIORITY RULES - APPENDIX A  
   
—  
service than the employee he would displace. An employee  
who is downgraded within the jobs outside of designated  
crews may, within three (3) days ol the effective date of the  
downgrade, request an opportunity to displace a shorter  
service employee on a higher ranked job in the jobs ouiside  
of designated crews than that fram which he was  
downgraded, provided his attendance record shows he has  
previously performed the job for not less than thirty (30)  
days and he siill has the abillty and physical fitness to  
perform it. if a request is made under this Paragraph E1  
before Monday, any moves resulting therefrom will be  
reflecied on the schedule posied the Thursday. If  
ihe request Is made after Sunday, any moves resulting  
will ba reflected on the schedule on the  
Thursday of the following week.  
The provisions of Paragraph E2 of the Agreement to which  
this Appendix is attached does not apply to the divisions  
covered by this Appandix since the subjeci matter thereof is  
dealt with in Paragraph E1 above.  
The provisions of Paragraph E3 and Paragraph E5 of the  
Agreement to which this Appendix is attached shal! apply to  
the divisions covered by this Appendix.  
The following is the procedure which will be followed (in  
accordance with the appropriate seniority unit chart) in  
applying the joregoing rules to downgrading:  
(a} If a reduction In force affects employees in a  
dasignated crew, the most junior employee In the  
highest ranked job affected in the designated crew will  
displace the most junior in that crew that he  
can displace In the highest ranked job below the job  
from which he was downgraded. The same  
procadure will apply in connectlon with the  
downgrading of the next most junior employee in  
the affected job in the designated crew until ihe  
306  
   
### SENIORITY RULES - APPENDIX A  
(b)  
required number of have been  
downgraded from ihe highest ranked job alfected  
in thal crew. Thereatter, ihe same procedure will  
be applied io employees in each of the  
successively lower ranked jobs in that crew  
{including any employees who were displaced by  
employees from higher ranked jobs) until the  
- required number of employees hava been  
Gowngraded out of thal crew. Employees —  
downgraded out of a designated craw will then be  
downgraded sequentially thraugh the jobs outside  
of designated crews In the same manner described  
earlier in this subparagraph, starting at ihe job  
marked by the “arrow" leading from the applicable  
crew as set forth on the appropriate seniority unil  
chart,  
Hi a reduction in force affects employees on a job  
outside of a designated crew, the most junior  
employes in the highest ranked job affected will  
displace the most junior employee that he can  
displace on a job outside of the designated crew in  
the highest ranked job below the job from which he  
was downgraded. The same procedure will apply  
in connection with the downgrading of the next  
most junior employee in the affected job until the  
required number of employees have been  
downgraded fram the highest ranked job affecied.  
Thereafter, the same procedure will be applied to  
employees in each of the successively lower  
ranked jobs {including employees who were  
displaced by employees from higher ranked jobs)  
until the required number of employees have been  
downgraded.  
307  
F.  
### ~~ “SENIORITY RULES - APPENDIX A  
Recalls  
1.  
   
When the working force |s incraased or a permanent  
vacancy Occurs, employees will be recalled to the division;  
jobs outside of designated crews; jobs within such crews,  
it any, from which thay were originally downgraded; or the  
job in the designated crew, if any, from which they were  
originally downgraded, temporarily transferred, or were  
laid off in accordance with ihe appropriate seniority unit  
chart ang the applicable type of continuous service  
involved, It being understood that once an employee is  
recalled to the division, he shail be subject to recall to and  
must accept any job that he is qualified to perform in his  
recall sequence that Is ranked lower than the job from  
which he was orginally downgraded until he Is recalled to  
the fob from which he was originally downgraded. The  
racall sequences shail be tha reverse of the downgrading  
sequences as set forlh on the appropriate seniority unit  
chart. An employes shall be recalled as provided in this  
Paragraph Ft, unless, hy mutual agreement between the  
Company and the Union, he is allowed to remain on some  
other job, in which event his recall rights and  
shall he canceled.  
The provisions of Paragraph F2 of the Agreement to  
which ihis Appendix is attached do not apply ta the  
divisions covered by this Appendix since the subject  
matter thereof is dealt with In Paragraph F1 above.  
The provisions of Paragraphs F3, F4, and of the  
Agreement to which this Appendix is attached, the  
cancellation of divisional and sectional sarvice of  
employees temporarily transferred to other divisions, and  
the recall of employees to the labor group of divisions  
other than the division from which they were originally  
off shall apply to the divisions covered by this Appendix.  
308  
   
### SENIORITY RULES - APPENDIX A  
J,  
Job Assignment Requests, Supplementary Agreements  
Paragraphs G, H, and | of the Agreement to which this Appendix  
Is attached pertaining to job assignment requests, exceptians to  
rules for application of the seniority factors, and supplementary  
rules shall apply to the divisions covered by this Appendix.  
Piacement of New Jobs  
The parties will seek mutually agree as to whether a new job  
or jobs shall be placed in a crew oF outside of the  
designated crew, bu! in the avent agreement Is not reached,  
Management shali include euch job or jobs in the most  
appropriate crew or, if more appropriate, outside of any  
designated crew, subject to the grievance procedure of the Basic  
Labor Agreement.  
Transitional Employees  
The provisions applicable to “ransitional amployees” are set  
forth in Appendix CC (“Memorandum-of Agreement Concerning  
Transitions! Period Matters”).  
### EXHIBIT A  
### EXHIBIT A  
### JOBS ASSIGNED TO CREWS IN THE  
### STEEL PRODUCING DIVISION  
### CREW A ~ CUPOLAS  
Job Title  
  
### CREW 6 — BASIC OXYGEN FURNACES  
Job Title  
Operator - Oxygen «0.2...  
Firat = OA  
First Furmacaman «  
### SECOND  
### CREW C -- CASTING  
Eee  
  
First  
Second Castingman FE TES Pere TSE EER AEE REE PAE RL Oe  
  
Third  
### CREW 0 ~ CRANES  
Job Title  
OH Crane Operator - Casting ...  
OH Crane Operator - Hot Metal .. aes  
OH Crane Operator - Ingoi and Mold Crane ...  
OH Crane Operator - Charging ...  
OH Crane Operator - Mold Preparation ...  
310  
   
Job Class  
11  
Job Class  
19  
15  
14  
13  
9  
Job Class  
16  
14  
10  
Job Ctass  
### EXHIBIT A  
### CREW & ~- LOCOMOTIVE ENGINE  
Job Title  
Train Operator ... —  
Locomotive Engine ‘Operator (Limited Area).  
Conductor - Swiichman (Limited Area) ...  
### CREW F -~ AUXILIARY  
tle  
Liner - Oxygen Furnace  
Ladle Liner...  
### CREW G ~ SLIDE GATES  
Job Title  
Slide Gate Setter ... A  
### CREW H - BOTTOM POUR  
Job Title  
Leader - Bottom Pouring  
### CREW | - GUNNING  
Job Title  
Gunnar - BOF Liming  
ot  
   
Job Class  
44  
11  
a1  
Job Ciass  
13  
Job Class  
10  
b Class  
9  
### EXHIBIT A-1  
### EXHIBIT A-1  
### JOBS OUTSIDE OF DESIGNATED CREWS IN THE  
### STEEL PRODUCING DIVISION  
Job Title  
Slide Gate Setior Helper  
Helper ~ Furnace Linirig  
Operator - Mobile Equipment  
Builder - Bottom Pouring ........ ee  
Mobile Equipment Operator - Bottorn Pouring  
Mixer Hand  
Fluxrnann + Oneygen Furnace  
Mold Preparation Many  
Helper - Ladte Liming  
Gunner Helper - BOF Lining  
Halper - Casting Aisle  
Scrap Trimmer ..  
Unloader/Binman - Butk Material ..  
Laborer (Casting Operations}  
Laborer = LEUNG  
Utility  
Genera  
  
312  
teeth  
Sede be  
   
Job Class  
mn Ob WwW fF se a &  
   
### EXHIBIT B  
### EXHIBIT 8  
### JOBS ASSIGNED TO CREWS IN THE  
### PRIMARY ROLLING MILL DIVISION  
### CREW A -SOCAKING PITS  
Job Tiite Job Class  
Heater - Soaking Pits .. RE Ee 18  
Heater Helper - Soaking Pits .. 12  
### CREW B ~ BLOOMING MILL  
ob Title Job Class  
Sein Mill Faller oo... (eure 27  
Manipulator - Blooming Mill .. 13  
Shearman - Blooming Mill .. 12  
Helper - Blooming Mill Shear .. §  
### CREW C - BILLET MILL  
Job Title Job Class  
Guide Setter .. ance 14  
Operator « No. 1 ‘Stand Billet Mill 11  
Operator - No. 2 sie Mill .. 1  
Operator - Hot Saw .. rns 1  
Utility Man - Billet Mid .. g  
### CREW D — CRANES  
Jab Title Job Class  
OH Crane Operator - Soaking Pits & Mills .............. 16  
OH Crane Operator - Strippar 12  
OH Crane Operator - Mills .. 9  
OH Crane Operator - Slab and Billet Yard . bes 5  
313  
  
### EXHIBIT B-1  
   
### JOBS OUTSIDE OF DESIGNATED CREWS IN THE  
### PRIMARY ROLLING MILL DIVISION  
dob Title  
Inspector (Conditioning & Loading}  
Ingot Buggy  
Operator - Slab Conditioning Grinder  
Gantry Crane Operator ...  
Utility Man - Soaking Pits . VRE  
Billot ras  
Trucker - Primary  
Utility Man - Slab and Billot Yard  
OIG cy  
Hot Stab & Bloom  
Hot Bed Operator/Stamper es bees  
Fick Borel CONE emerson  
Hot Bed StamparfAooker  
Stacker .. cr  
ingot wee  
Equipment Cleaner - .  
Wet Scale Cleaner - Slab & Billet Mil rian  
i  
314  
Job Class  
ae Nw © © wo mo OD  
   
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNDERSTANDINGS  
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNDERSTANDINGS  
The following items were agreed to during the 1993 labor negotiations:  
4.  
3.  
During the term of this Agreement, empioyees whose  
wages have been garnisheed will not be disciplined  
because of such garnishmenis.  
An amployee who is called for jury or witness service  
pursuant to Vil, Section 7, shall have the option  
regarding the scheduled shifi which is to be considered  
as the first day of jury or witness service for pay  
purposes.  
Pay shoriages in excess of twenty-five dollars ($25} will  
be made within (48) hours, excluding  
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. Other pay shoriages  
verilied before Friday of one week shall normally be  
madé up on Friday of the following waek.  
IF an empkyes Is not scheduled to work on a specified  
holiday, and he then performs work on that holiday, he  
is entitled to pay ai holiday rates for such hours of work  
in addition to holiday pay for which he is entitled. This  
understanding applies in addition to the provisions of  
Section 6 of Artide Vil, where applicable,  
When the Company délermines that an employes  
retuming to work will be unable to perform his regular job  
for 4 minimum of 30 days due to impaired physical  
fitness resulting from iliness or injury, such employee  
shall be reassigned or downgraded in accordance with  
Paragraph {E) of the Seniority Rules to a job, # any,  
which he is physically fit to perform. -  
Overtime records shall be maintained on an annual  
basis,  
315  
   
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNDERSTANDINGS  
a  
- =  
7,  
wre  
10.  
"No shall be required to work in excess of  
twelve (12) consecutive hours in any work day except  
when no qualitied replacement is available.  
it wil be the intent that job award notices will be posted  
promptly, L@., usually within four (4) days {excluding  
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) after the dose of the  
posting period, except in situations requiring tesis or  
other forms of qualification If a delay is  
anticipated in awarding jobs to successiul apprenticeship  
applicants, the reason for the delay shall be made known  
to the Apprenticeship Committes.  
In the application of Articla Vil, Subsection 6(B)(4), it a  
supervisor has altempied unsuccessfully to contact an  
employee, he shall record such atiempt and  
refer the employse’s name and phone number to the  
Plant Protection Department which will again attempt  
contact by phone and record such attempt.  
Employees in the Steal Producing Division, with fixed off  
days, will he permitted to request a change of off days  
no more than twice per year. Such requests must be in  
no later than the posted deadline date (2 per year -  
normally one in January and one in July) and within 60  
days from those dates the requesied changes will be  
implemented, giving consideration to relative length of  
continuous service,  
tn determining whether necessary overtime will be  
assigned to the job where the need arises, os assigned  
at some point Gown the sequenca of jobs leading to the  
job where the overtime need arises, the Company will be  
guided only by considerations of ihe efficiency of the  
operation and desirability of providing training opportuni-  
ties.  
Tha Company will not search an locker  
316  
13.  
14.  
16,  
t?.  
without first notifying a Union representative unless  
circumstances at the time dictale immediate actian.  
The Company shall provide transportation to and from  
ihe gate to the Medical Department or to and from the  
injured employee's division to the Medicat  
for an employee not able to walk lo tha Medical  
Department because of illness or injury.  
The parties mutually recognize that a minimum amount  
of overtime work In the Plant is a dasirabla goal.  
Progress toward this goal, however, ts complicated by  
the fact that the various divisions and departments have  
vasily differant problems in this respect. Therefore, it is  
agreed that during the term of this Labor Agreement, the  
parties will examine, In detail, the practices in each of  
the divisions and will adopt any mutually satisfactory  
improvements which may be developed to minimize the  
amount of dally overtime assignments.  
When an employee is notified during his work shift ihat  
he must work overtime at the end of that shift and such  
overtime continues beyond the fourth {4th} hour, he will  
be paid a meal allowance in the amount of $2.30.  
Temporary Vacaricy - Long - Term Temporary {over 30  
days}:  
A, When the Company believes a temporary  
which ts being filled wil contnue for  
more than thirty (30} days, fourteen (14 days in  
the case of a medical ieave of absence, the  
parties hereby agree under Paragraph H of the  
Seniority Rules that such a vacancy shall be  
filted as foltows:  
_ (1) Employees subject to recall under Para-  
graph F of tha Seniority Rules will be  
recalled in accordance with Paragraph F,  
  
   
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNDERSTANDINGS  
but on 4 tamparary basis.  
(2) An right and obligatian to  
permanent recall under Paragraph F  
shall not be allered by reason of A(1)  
above. ‘  
{3} if tha temporary vacancy cannot be  
filled by recall as in Al1} above,  
wf be made under  
Paragraph DO of the Senlorty Rules  
without regard to shift.  
(4) lf n> employee has entared a writien  
request for assignment to ihe temporary  
vacancy in accordance with Paragraph  
D of the Senionty Rules, the employes  
with the least continuous service in the  
applicable unil shail be assigned to the  
vacancy, provided he is qualified to  
periorm the job being filed.  
In connection with Paragraph C of this Agreement, in order  
that adequate consideration may be given, special request  
forms must be submitied by employees desiring such long-  
lerm temporary assignments not later than three (3) weeks  
prior to the date the vacancy is initially scheduled to be filled.  
The special requests noled in B above, once.entered, may be  
withdrawn at the employee's request, provided the request is  
made assignment to a fong-term vacancy and provided  
jurther that such request may not be made until after the  
employee has completed ane week of assignment and such  
withdrawal request will not be unti Ihe beginning of  
the second week following the week In which the request is  
made. An employee who withdraws a long-term temporary  
promotion request may not reenter the same request for 90  
days alter the date of withdrawal.  
318  
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNDERSTANDINGS  
D.  
It is understoad that employses shall be required to denote  
the specific assignment dasired when entering such requests.  
“Specific assignments” are those positions within a general job  
litle which are currently attainable by a job assignment  
raquesi under ihe existing Seniority Rules.  
Temporary Vacancy and Temporary Promotion Request  
Procedure {lass than 30 days vacancy or fess than 14 days  
in the case of a leave of absence).  
An employee may withdraw a temporary promotion request  
alter it has been in effect for a two-week period provided:  
A. A written withdrawal request is entered nol fater  
ihan Tuesday.  
B. The employee may not reanter the same request  
for a period of 30 days afier the effective date ol  
withdrawal.  
C. It is understood that no requesl will effectively be  
withdrawn until the end of the scheduling period  
during which such request is entered.  
With respect to @ general job title, It is  
understood that shall be required to  
dencte tha specific assignment desired whan  
entering such requests. Specific assignmenis,  
as used above, are those positions within a  
general job title which are currenily attainable  
by a job assignment request under Paragraph G  
of the existing Seniority Rules.  
Vacancies when there are no regularly assigned empivyuca,  
When a daily vacancy olher than a temporary vacancy  
davelops which Managemeni knows will be filled for 30 or  
more consecutive working days and there is no reguiarty  
assigned employee for the job, the job will bs posted in the  
319  
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNOERSTANDINGS  
20.  
21.  
Y ee  
nn  
normal manner.  
Military Leave of Absence - Classification of vacancy.  
Vacancies which are to be filed and which result from employees  
being granted jeaves of absence for the purpose of Military  
Service (other than annual taining encampmenis) shall be  
considered as permanent vacancies and filled accordingly.  
From time to time, occasions arise whan an employee, who, while .  
ai work In the Plant, bas suffered an Injury, and because of the  
Injury is prevented temporarily from performing tha  
physical requirements of his job; however, he may be capable of  
performing {1} special assignments with lighler physica!  
requirements within the scope of his job, or {2} other jobs with  
lighter physical requirements.  
With the understanding that such tamporary assignments and re-  
menis are solely ai the discretion of Management and that  
they will be made only in those cases when, in Managemant’s sole  
Judgment, the employee wil! be again capable of performing the  
fu!) scope of his regular job within a reasonable period of time, the  
Company and the Union agree to the following:  
In the circumstances and under the conditions specified  
above, such employee for such hours worked will be paid at  
the standard hourly wage rate applicable to his regular job  
or ine standard hourly wage rate of the job to which he may  
be temporarily assigned, whichever is higher. These pay  
provisions will be terminaied when the Company concludes  
(based on its Medical Departnent's recommendations} that  
the employee will not recover sufficiently to  
pertorm his regulas job. The term “regular job” as used In  
this Agreement is defined as the job to which the employee  
was assigned al the time of his Injury or, in the  
event of a subsequent downgrading, the job to which the  
employee would have been assigned as the result of such  
downgrading excep! for his tamparary physical tmpairment.  
320  
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNDERSTANDINGS  
22.  
(n any case where a schedule deviating trom the normal work  
paitem has been or is established by agreemant between Plant  
Management and the Grievance Committee, and such agreement  
does not by its terms provide tor termination by the Grievance  
Comniittee, the Grievance Committee shall have the right to ter-  
minate such agréemeni upon 30 days’ written nolice to Plant  
Management; and likewise, any such agreement which provides for  
less than 30 days’ nolice of termination by the Grievance  
Committee is hereby amended to provide for 30 days' writien notice  
by the Grievance Commities. No local agreement shail be  
construed as restricting Management's right at any time to replace  
any non-normal schedule with a schedule based on the normal  
work pattem.  
321  
~  
r=  
   
Ft  
  
  
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNDERSTANDINGS  
### NOTICE  
### CONCERNING: “FAMILY AND MEDICAL  
### LEAVE ACT OF 1993" PROCEDURES  
As set forth in Appendix V-1 of this Agreement, the "Family and Medical  
Leave Act of 1993" has replaced and superseded the fonmnerty existing  
"Medical Leave of Absence Procedure - Hourly Employees” effective  
Seplember 1, 1993. The rulas/procedures that you must follow to comply  
with the new leave of absence requirements will be communicated ta  
employees by such mearis as posting, handouts and/or mailings, eic.  
Please make sure that you obtain a curren! copy of these  
rules/procedures as it will be your obligation 10 comply with them to  
maintain your emptoyment status.  
If you do not have a copy of these rutes/procedures, or if you are nat sure  
that you have the rules/procedures that are currently in effect, contact the  
Human Resources Deparment (presently located in #28) of the  
Plant’s Medical Oapartment (presently located in Building #19) to obtain  
a copy of the current policy (rules/procedures}. ff you have any questions  
concaming how to comply with these rules/procedures, contact the Human  
Resources Department.  
### (MPORTANT  
### APPLICATION FOR INSURANCE BENEFITS WILL NOT SEAVE AS A  
### REQUEST FOR ALEAVE OF ABSENCE, NOR WILL A REQUEST FOR  
### A_LEAVE OF AGSENCE SERVE AS AN_APPLICATION FOR  
### INSURANCE BENEFITS. THEY ARE TWO SEPARATE PROCEDURES.  
   
### SUPPLEMENTAL UNDERSTANDINGS  
Again, please make sure that you are familiar with the current  
jeave of absence policy (rules/procedures). Please keep in mind thal  
failure to comply with these rules/procedures can have adverse  
consequences including, depending on the ciroumstancas, termination of  
employment. Becoming about the mules/procedures  
conceming leaves of absence will halp make life easier for all of us.  
Riverdale Piant Telephone Number (708) 349-2500  
323  
   
=P  
7  
ia  
21  
26  
   
   
    
$MY¥WTeF §  
$ 4 8 86 Ff  
3  
z  
t  
ia  
19  
17  
     
     
1 6200 «(21  
     
22 23 24 25 2 8F ff  
2 3  
  
   
Qe=-2f  
   
  
   
   
   
   
327  
   
   
 