  
506  
ef  
### SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT  
### BETWEEN AK STEEL CORPORATION  
### AND  
### UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA  
### INTERNATIONAL UNION AND LOCAL 1865  
This is to confirm the agreement reached this 31° day of August, 2000 between AK Steel  
Corporation (“Company”) and the United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC ("Union")  
for a successor agreement to the current labor agreement, which consists of the Labor and  
Benefit Agreements between Armco Steel Company, L.P. and the USWA dated August 1, 1989  
as extended by the various extension agreements in 1993 and 1994 and continued and modified  
by the various agreements entered into during the course of the negotiations in 1995, 1994 and  
1995, by the Interest Arbitrator’s Decision, and by the March 19, 1997 Letter, and which remain  
in effect until midnight on August 31, 2005, except as modified by this Settlement  
Agreement, as follows: a  
This Settlement Agreement provides for the following:  
1.  
### IN  
2  
An expiration date of 12:01 a.m. September 1, 2005.  
Effective March 1, 2001, increase the standard hourly wage rate for each job by $0.50.  
Effective September 1, 2002, increase the standard hourly wage rate for each job by $0.50.  
Effective March 1, 2004, increase the standard hourly wage rate for each job by $1 00.  
Incentive workers will have these rate increases applied to the hourly add-on.  
Additional changes set forth in the attached Appendices through  
   
IN WITNESS WHERE , the parties hereto have caused this Af “ment to be executed by their  
duly authorized represeéi..utive this the _____ day of  
. |  
~  
### AK STEEL CORPORATION UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA  
4.  
4)  
-?-  
ae  
o  
:  
### AK STEEL CORPORATION  
### ASHLAND WORKS  
### USWA NEGOTIATIONS  
### COMPANY PROPOSAL  
August 31, 2000  
e Pensions  
For Each Year of  
Continuous Service Effective 9/1/01 Effective Date 9/1/03  
(For Retirements on (For Retirements on  
or After 9/1/00.) or After 9/1/00.)  
Up to 30 years $52.50 $56.25  
In excess of 30 years 70.00 75.00  
e Transition Benefit  
Provide a Transition Benefit, for 30-year pensions, of $300 per month until age 62 or  
eligibility for Social Security.  
e Permanent Incapacity Pension  
Accept Union proposal of August 24, 2000. ( A A)  
e Institute for Career Development and Overtime Control Fund Appendix  
_ R-  
Accept Union proposal of August 25, 2000. ( APPENDIX + 2  
© Vacation Eligibility  
Years of Service Entitlement—Weeks of Vacation  
1 but less than 3 l  
3 but less than 8 2  
8 but less than 15 3  
15 but less than 24 4  
24 or more 5  
e REACT Coverage  
   
On the contract effective date, the Company will provide REACT coverage for all  
employees as set forth below:  
a. Eliminate paragraph 3.14(e) of the Pension Agreement such that no charges for  
the Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity under such paragraph will be made.  
b. Provide automatic coverage of emplovees under paragraph 3.14 of the Pension  
Agreement, except for those participants who continue their coverage under the  
Pre-Pension Spouse provision under paragraph 3.13 of the Pension Agreement.  
on  
c. Provide that participants will not be eligible to elect Pre-Pension Spouse Coverage q  
LE #6  
Ye  
St. —,  
under 13.13 Pension Agreement, except for! “Pension Spouse  
Coverage that (i) is in effect as of August 31, 2000, and (11) 1s not subsequenily  
terminated bv the participant.  
e Automatic Five-Year Term Certain — Pre-Retirement Death  
   
On the contract effective date, the Company will espand paragraph 3.17 of the  
Pension Agreement as set forth below:  
Pre-Retirement Death  
3.17(d)(1) In the event a participant who is eligible to retire (on other than a deferred  
vested pension) makes application for retirement during any calendar  
month and then dies in the month in which his retirement occurred (while  
such application for retirement is pending), the benefits provided under  
this paragraph 3.17 will be paid as if the participant had survived until  
such requested retirement date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary  
contained herein, the protection afforded by this paragraph (1) shall! be  
inapplicable to any participant who has, on or after January 31, 1995, filed  
an application for retirement and then revoked the same; provided,  
however, the protection provided by paragraph (2) below shail be  
applicable.  
(2) In the event a participant who is accruing continuous service and who tS  
eligible to retire on a 30-year, 60/15, 62/15, or normal retirement dies prior  
to making application for retirement, the benefits provided under this  
paragraph 3.17 shall be payable in the amount determined in accordance  
with paragraph 3.3(b) or (c), if applicable, after taking into account the  
adjustments to be made by paragraphs 3.7 and 3.13(£) as though the  
participant had retired on the date of his death.  
« Automatic Fifty Percent Spouse Option  
On the contract effective date, the Company will provide that the automatic 50  
percent Spouse Option will:  
a. Provide in paragraph 3.15(g) that if a participant’s spouse dies prior to the death of  
the participant, the net reduced pension otherwise payable to such participant during  
his remaining lifetime will be increased effective with the month following the  
month the spouse died, by eliminating the reduction applied in paragraph 3.]5  
(a); and  
b. Use in paragraph 3.15(a) of the Pension Agreement a revised Table of Percentages,  
Exhibit B, (which will be mutually agreed upon by the parties) that reflects the  
additional costs of providing the increased pension benefits payable to the parucipant  
subsequent to the death of the participant's spouse.  
e Payments to Certain Surviving Spouses  
ee On the contract effective date, the Company will provide to the existing group of  
pre-1993 surviving spouses currently receiving these lump sum payments for the  
; wl  
a\\  
  
Post’ 74  
—  
wf  
term ofthe: tract effective date, Collective Bargair.  
payments increased by the attached schedule:  
Agreement with annual  
   
| 11/01 |  
$600 | S600 | S625  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
| $300 | $525 | $525 | $550 | $550 } $375 | $3575 |  
300 325 325 | 350 | 350 | 350 | 350 | 373 | 375 | 375  
   
   
© No Recovery of Certain Pension Overpayment  
ee Provide that any pension benefit overpayment shall not be deducted from future  
benefit payments unless the calculation error was caused by the failure to  
notify the Company of his or her entitlement to Social Security benefits, or  
by a fraudulent or deceptive act of the participant.  
Program of Insurance Benefits (Active Employees)  
ee Life Insurance  
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase life insurance by $3,000  
for all active employees. On the contract effective date, the Company will increase  
life insurance for future retirees from $5.000 to $7,500. The reduction from the  
active life insurance amount to the retiree amount occurs at age 62 regardless of age  
of retirement. .  
ee Sickness and Accident Benefits  
On the contract effective date. all classifications of Sickness and Accident Benefits  
will have the weekly benefits increased as set forth below:  
On the Contract Effective Date: $75 per week  
One Year After the Contract Effective Date: 25 per week  
Three Years After the Contract Effective Date: 25 per week  
Four Years After the Contract Effective Date: 25 per week  
ee Vision Benefits  
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the vision benefits to the  
levels set forth below:  
Frames 55  
Lenses (Per Lens):  
Single Vision  
Bifocal  
Trifocal  
Lenticular  
Contact  
     
     
     
     
   
    
   
      
    
    
   
     
   
on  
  
ee Dental Be: ts 5  
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the calendar year  
maximum benefits to $1,600. Additionally. the orthodontic coverage will be  
increased to 85 percent with a lifetime maximum of $1,800.  
ee Chiropractic Coverage  
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the Major Medical annual  
cap for chiropractic services to $700.  
ee Hearing Aids  
   
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the hearing aid benefit for  
active employees (including covered dependents) to $1,000 for the term of the  
Agreement. Coverage wiil be included in the Traditional Plan.  
ee Major Medical  
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the lifetime maximum to  
$500,000.  
ee Mamimnoerants, Prostate Examinations and PSA Exams  
   
On the contract effective date, these exams shall be covered by Major Medical.  
ee Working Spouse Provision p  
On the contract effective date, the Company will amend the requirement that a  
working spouse must purchase health care coverage when made available by %  
his/her employer to apply only to working spouses who are not considered  
part-time employees; t.e., a part-time employee is one who works 32 hours or  
less per week. Include premium reimbursement on working spouse, per attached.  
ee Additions to 401K Plan—per attached side letter. AA lv C  
ee Lifetime Maximum Under Community Choice  
Increase lifetime maximum for in network to $2,000,000.  
Program of Insurance Benefits (Future Retirees)  
ee Major Medical  
Increase lifetime maximum to $100,000.  
Eliminate annual maximum.  
ee Mantunograms, Prostate Examinations, and PSA Exams  
   
On the contract effective date, these exams shall be covered by Major Medical.  
  
fore  
Lifetime Me um Under Community Choice  
Increase lifetime maximum for in network to $2.000.000.  
ee Working Spouse Provision hs 5s  
Include premium reimbursement on working spouse, per attached.  
e Additional Continuous Service  
Accept Union proposal, on contract effective date. APPENDIX dD  
e Union Committeeman and Officials  
Accept August 24, 2000, Union proposal, on contract effective date. APCEN  
e Unpublished Industry Letters  
Renew safety and health indemnification (4/15/80), duty of fair representation (3/1/83), PP  
and application of no-strike clause to sympathy strikers (3/ 1//$3) unpublished industry ~  
letters. No renewal of other unpublished industry letters. f- - 2  
| F-3  
e Seniority Charts  
Update within 30 days of contract effective date. i fe  
e Resolve Incentive Issues for Clerks and Electric Power A f, PED Lx C  
' a Re .  
¢ All Other Previously Agreed Tentative Agreements Lf 4 —{ (7 GATE a  
### H-2 SAFETY J  
Reject Att Proposmts——C__ ny 2 RTI DG  
H - Y PRE STi 5 c7(  
   
e Employment Security aL s a T Ac ne  
Accept Union proposal of June 7, . /  
4 _ b /+ if 1) A 4  
e Single-Day Vacation if 7 em L A  
Accept attached proposal. f J |  
¢ Probationary Emplovees  
Accept Union proposal of August 31, 2000. fA p fp K  
¢ Holiday Scheduling  
   
Company and Union shall meet and discuss issue.  
|  
qr gl  
op  
   
° Assigned Seniority Départment Chart 2  
Accept Union proposal of August 25, 2000. APE ZL.  
Vacation Bonus 4)  
Accept Union proposal of June 7, 2000. i  
Dates N  
? Gf RAC Lotz App O  
Che! 74! [nw ESTOENT ALF  
fer fon c/ VAP (7 Q  
op,  
6 Nev ma | TY A  
### UW fyBtiSHED T+#C  
  
+ C46 Cr Ova Apr ¢  
m.o. ow OvERTIME  
0 a Po Sit Dd toe _  
()w Lerre€ O+T ACP 6A  
nit |  
af  
a [TE FI  
### EXHIBIT 3F  
Amend Section 2.5 of the Pension Agreement (Eligibility for Permanent Incapacity  
Retirement) as follows:  
A participant shall be considered to be permanently incapacitated (as “permanently  
incapacitated” is used herein) only (a) if he has been totally disabled by bodily injury or  
disease so as to be prevented thereby from engaging in any employment to which he  
would be entitled according to the terns of the Basic Agreement.  
   
4 all  
i  
n>  
//  
ae LoL &E™  
i f  
### COMPANY PROPOSAL  
August 30, 2000  
Re: Institute for Career Development (ICD)  
and Overtime Control Training Fund (OCTF)  
The Company agrees to the following: transfer the remaining balance in the discontinued OCTF  
to the ICD ledger account; all OCTF obligations shall remain eliminated; and the existing ICD  
agreement shall be continued.  
fe  
|  
Effective November 1. 1999, spouses of any participant in this Plan who are employe  
by any employer which offers health care coverage must enroll in that plan u the  
spouse’s employer pays any part of the cost of such coverage. This requirement is not  
applicable for spouses who work less than 32 hours. In the event the spouse  
is required to pay more than 50% of the cost of the coverage, the company will  
reimburse the employee for any premium/cost paid by the spouse which is more than  
50% of the cost of coverage for that employee.  
   
[3  
- aif , ~  
Rugust A  
Mr. Emest R. “Billy” Thompson  
Director, Distnct 8  
Steelworkers of America  
§5C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B  
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601  
### TN  
### COMPANY PROPOSAL  
August 9, 2000  
Dear Mr. Thompson:  
Re: Section 401K Retirement Savings Plain  
This confirms the following agreements reached during the 2000 negotiations regarding  
the Section 401K Retrrement Savings Plan applicable to the USWA Production and  
Maintenance Bargaining Unit, effective [contract effective date].  
L. Individual participant Plan contributions wil] be permitted to the maximum amount  
allowable by law.  
  
. Up to and including three additional Plan investment options may be selected by the  
Union from the available fund opuons. The Union agrees to meet with representatives  
of the fund manager prior to notifying the Company of its selectton(s).  
us  
. Plan participants who have taken a loan under the Plan provisions for an amount less  
than the maximum loan available under Plan and lega! restrictions will be permitted  
to take a second loan for the remaining amount up to said restmctions.  
Sincerely,  
  
A fe al  
Manager  
Industrial Relations  
Confirmed:  
27  
Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson, Dis  
United Steelworkers of America  
       
   
  
Date  
  
ff  
Exhibit 38  
   
September 1, 2000  
Mr. Emest R. Thompson  
Chairman - Union Negotiating Committee  
United Steelworkers of America  
Five Gateway Center  
Pittsburgh, PA 15222  
Dear Mr. Thompson:  
This ts to confirm our understanding with respect to employees who are accruing pension continuous service  
as of September 1, 2000 and who incurred breaks in basic labor agreement and pension continuous service  
due to layoff after January 1, 1980 and who were recalled or rehired pnor to September 1, 2000:  
1. Employees who meet the above criteria will be credited with one additional year of pension .  
continuous service (and basic labor agreement continuous service) except as they were  
recalled within three years following the date last worked in which case they will be credited with  
the lesser of (a) one additional year of pension continucus service (and basic labor continuous  
service) or (b) a period of pension continuous service (and basic labor continuous service) equal  
to the peniod between the date that such employee sustained a break in pension continuous  
service (and basic labor continuous service) and the date such employee was recalled.  
2. Continuous service credited in (1) above will also apply to continuous service for vacation  
eligibility purposes.  
- Yours very truly,  
AK Steel  
Chairman - Negotiating Committee  
Confirmed:  
United Steelworkers of Amenca  
Emest R. Thompson  
Chairman - Union Negotiating Committee  
/4  
   
   
~~ cs nara eS, fifo ~ en)  
(b) 3.15(a) of t  
Exhibit B, (which will be mutually  
providing the increased pensio  
ie participant S$ spouse.  
     
    
Union Committeemen and Officials  
   
     
   
   
   
Effective August 31,2000, amend the definition of earnings contained in paragraph 1.1(h) of the  
Pension Agreement to add to the group of union committeemen and officials for whom eamings  
maybe adjusted to be “fairly representative" because they were absent on union business, the  
following: 4 2 V4 AC £  
   
    
          
   
   
   
ICD Committee  
   
   
in co Spouses  
Accept pues roposal.  
k. ore Benefit  
Provide Transition ber efit, for Pensions, of oS 0 ser month u 62 or eligibility  
Disability.  
vel. No Recovery of Certain Pension /  
!  
Agree with ompany’ s  
yom. Three additignal elections i in 401 (k) Plan.  
Form'Union committee to work with Fidelity an ct elections.  
~  
   
Lisyd Mco3ride, Presiden:  
es of america  
Caraway Center  
BduTEn, LS222  
@  
  
5m  
ba 0  
«9  
e+ $+ €  
<  
et &  
st  
pear Ye.  
During the leading t2 the August 2, 1959 the  
parcies, t54 Comisiae St2el and she Steelworke::  
of beretzafcer telerved cs as the Unics, whe isios's trols  
wader 14, Safery and Weales, of the Uciced Steel Yaris Laser Azgres-  
went (and cowmterpart provisioas 4m the Basic Labor agreemen:s of the othe:  
Coordinasing Comeitree Steel Compacies) and the Federal asd siace laws.  
Tne Unison has chaz 4: 48 each Company's respsasitiiicty ¢s  
mice proviaiccs for the safety and Sealth of 223 as the poazncs  
weisz the hours cf thelr anc the Usios's role in this regar2 will be  
gappersive Sh ervosseing sale and healenful sraceisces and progprass. Further, tne  
thas it will sake every reasonable effors to we  
active coeperatian of ins and with such practices anc  
grass and villi and/sr umnesestary appeals to governmenia:  
Ssdies to in the resalucion ef any issues.  
Paragraph 3 of 16 ef the Uniced Seates Steel Basic Laser Agres-  
wenw (and i286 provisicns, if any, i= the Basic Lasozr of the  
ether Ceotdinatin Steel Companies) states the parties’ saat  
the Unies fe sor lisble for any werk-connecsted disabilicies ov diseases  
waieh say be incurred by Is order so effectuate this istece, whesher ot  
mat it is expressly fn the Laber Agreesescts and to encourage she Lutes  
os discharge its obiitgacios ts cocperace with and assist the Cospasies in  
ing their under che Basic Labor Agreements and the law, each  
Company shall the Unies, dis comiscees, officers, agents, and explcyets:  
against claiss and suits for dasages when such clafss or suice involve or arire  
Seon the Union's participation or involvenens fn contractual safety and health  
and are based on any Asjury cr illness, including death, of exployees of  
that Company arising or growing cur of and in che course cf the eaployment of such  
ascloyees by that Company, @xcep: thet this obligation shall not apply to a clas  
or suit based os an explicic evert act of negligence on the part of the Union oc:  
any agent of the Uricer or to a clais oF sul: based upon an agreement by the Urics  
to or of that  
The obligation of to  
to the  
4  
~  
1. The tel ive the Company immediate written  
agascs. che Usios, ice  
and exployees and ahall effectively  
Company costrel ef the defense and 5  
23  
~ mt  
  
  
nw  
[iy 2. Tae Unfos, ics locals, committees, officers,  
| . A  
menbern, and exployeer shall bricz forch all  
isformation relevant to che clai=s and cooperate  
~ EF  
al!  
   
fully with the at as expense to the Cospany,  
in the davescigacion asd defense of ail and  
shall not have taken and wil} take no action  
co the auccessful of the claia; and  
3. The Company shall hsve all Tignes of  
counierclain aad subrogacion is connection with such  
which may be avaliable to the Detos, its car  
officers, agescs and e=zployees and any seces-  
Bary person Shall execuze such dustrumescts as may be  
and appropriate to enable the Cespary to  
@xercise such rights; ani  
4. The Cotpany shall have xs Suty to the Unios,  
its officecs, oF esployees agains:  
any Claim resulting {n whole-or is pari fres the fadlure  
of refusal of a of the Union 3 use equiszen: or  
procecures established and nade Enswm to che exployees  
by the Cscpany when guch failure or refusal vzs  
conconec cr supported in any ezsne- dy the Union; and  
5. Failure of the Union e5 comply with Paragraphs 1, 2, and  
3 heres! shall relieve the Csspany of any to  
the Unics agsinst any clais subdjes: to gush  
failure.  
6. The Company may os days’ notice its ducy  
to indeanify the Unies agains: claéas ef which the Com  
pany has sot had writtes at the of giving the  
Dalen notice of fuer teszination shall noc  
relieve she Company of any obligation co dadexsify the  
Unter against any clais of whieh the had written  
notice belcre giving the Union nocice of  
' The provisions of this shall: be subject to and effective  
to the applicable provisioss of and laws.  
   
Lloyd McBride, Presiden:  
Uniced of America  
   
   
— — i - =  
Fol  
Mareh 1, 1983  
Mr. Lloyd McBride, Presidect  
United Steelworkers of America  
Five Gateway Center  
Piccsburghs, PA 15222  
Dear Mr: Mctride:  
| 4s will confiss our wmderstaending that  
the Coordinating Comitcee Steel Companies shall in-  
‘demmify the Union and Ecld ic harmless asgainse final  
judicial orders for backpay only in cases in which  
one of these Compacies is held to have discharged an  
exployee withous juss cause and the Union is held to  
have Dreached its of fair representation to that  
sase exployee cue to the canner in which 4c handled  
said exployee's discharge grievance. As pars of rhis  
understanding, the Union agrees to cooperate fully  
with the Companies in vigorously defending all such  
  
   
>  
Licyd McBride, President  
United Steelworkers of Anerica  
   
     
   
f=. J. Bruce  
| ok  
### APPEL KF  
Cocrdisating Srael Comanies  
States Steel  
600 Grant Street  
PA 15230  
Dears Mo. Johmston:  
During the of or  
1983 negociacions 2 cueszisc  
was raisec concerning the pplisacicon of Section 4-3 of the  
Basic Labor Agreemen= between Unired Steelworkers cf  
azc U. S. Steel Corporazicon and the Comparable provisions in  
the Agreements with che other Cocteinating Committee Sreel  
Companies anc these Companies designaced in the  
of 1980 Iron Ore Negotiations", dared Aoril 9, 1977,  
22 situations where an engages in a sympathy work  
  
There are two arcitration awards which deal  
wich this matter.  
Case Nos. USS-15,400; -I3,  
Grievance No. 10-N-32, Anseal No. I  
them holds chat the broad Languaze  
in the agreesent prohibited the cen  
refusing to work in sussort of a s-  
    
States Se  
   
   
4 @2n=5  
eel Corporation (Gary werks),  
Comsany,  
So, Awars lo, fe E&th 65  
of the no-strike provision  
euct of the in  
by nen-unic exployees  
   
anc, in each, the arbitrator gsusctainea the discipline  
by the Comany.  
this lester will confirm  
mion's posicion in the matter. We  
ancenc to challenge the  
mo-strike contract languaze as cece  
‘each of the above-mentioned cases.  
by those awards, in particular the  
language of the no-serike clause ba  
or i=peding of work by ind  
of expressizcg sycpachy with other wions, organizatiozs,  
uals or causes.  
Dion  
con, Chairman.  
Steel Comman  
axd publicly acknewledze the  
asree with and thus do mot  
and interpretation of th  
smined by the arbitrator is  
The Union itself bound  
rulings that the broad  
zred work stoppages or inter-  
ivicual exployees for purposes  
individ-  
Very truly yours,  
yy wis  
Lloyd McBride,  
United Steelworkers of America  
Las 2D op  
a Yai  
20  
### COMPANY PROPOSAL  
August 31, 2000  
, 2000  
   
Mr. Emest R. “Billy” Thompson  
Director, District 8  
United Stee! workers of America  
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B  
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601  
Dear Mr. Thompson:  
Re: Production and Maintenance Clerks  
This confirms our understandings during the 2000-year negotiations involving the estab-  
lishment of incentive coverage for the Production and Maintenance Clerks. Those under-  
Standings follow:  
1. For employees hired after the effective date of the agreement, a new position of Plant  
Clerk shall be established at a Zone 6.  
hw  
The new Plant Clerk position shail be incentive rated.  
The new incentive plan shall be designed to provide a 25 percent incentive  
opportunity, based on twenty-four (24)-hour slab production.  
od  
4. The new incentive plan shal] become effective within 60 days following the effective  
date of the new collective bargaining agreement.  
>. All existing Production and Maintenance Clerks shall be paid the new incentive rate  
but shail remain vested in the current seniority units.  
6. No work jurisdiction boundaries shail exist between the Production and Maintenance  
Clerks nor the Plant Clerk assignments.  
Sincerely,  
L. W. Gonce  
Manager  
Industrial Relations VI |  
. Mt Ll  
   
    
Company Proposal  
August 29, 2000  
oa a  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### CONCERNING INVESTIGATIVE SUSPENSIONS  
   
During the negotiations of the 2000 Basic Labor Agreement (the “2000 BLA”), the parties  
discussed the appropriate use of investigative suspensions and agreed to the following:  
1. Employees relieved from duty by the Company for purposes of determining if an employee  
nas violated a work mule or policy shall not be relieved from work for more than ten calendar  
days. Should the Company conclude, during this period, that the emplovee has violated a  
plant rule or policy, the days the employee was relieved from work may be counted towards  
any suspension issued by the Company for the stated infraction. For days an employee iS  
relieved from work, which are not counted towards an employee suspension for an alleged  
infraction, the employee will be compensated for lost eamings.  
### AK STEEL CORPORATION  
L. William Gonce  
Manager, Industrial Relations  
AK Sieel Corporation  
### ZI  
### UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA  
Emest R. “Billy” Thompson, Chairman  
Union Negotiating Committee  
United Steelworkers of America  
fp  
Company Proposal  
7-12-00  
September 1, 2000 —T i  
Mr. Ermest R. “Billy” Thompson a! [ =  
District Director |  
United Steelworkers of America /  
AFL-CIO-CLC, District 8 LZ  
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B  
Frankfort. Kentucky 40601  
Dear Mr. Thompson:  
Re: Memorandum of Understanding on Safety Shoe Allowance  
(To Replace Appendix D paragrapl: 7)  
The following understanding has been agreed to regarding safety shoe allowances to  
replace existing paragraph #7 of Appendix D. August 1. 1989.  
7. Memorandum ot Agreement on Safety Shoe Allowance  
Effecuve September 1, 2000. the Company will continue its policy  
dated October ]. 1999 of providing new emplovees up to $105.00  
for the cost of an initial pair of AK Sieel approved safety shoes for  
wear at the plant. Such payment will be made under procedures  
established by Ashland Works Management and currently in effect  
at the facility. The Company will continue its existing practice of  
providing replacement safety shoes as needed.  
Sincerely.  
L. W. Gonce  
Manager Relations  
   
Confirmed:  
Emest R. “Billy” Tnompson/District Director /  
United Steeiworkers of America  
   
B-17 Prnstng Preparations (New Contract)  
Mr. L. W. Gonce  
Manager, Labor  
AK Steel Corporation  
P. O. Box 191  
Ashland KY 41105-0191  
Dear Mr. Gonce;  
        
faod  
Union  
for printing of the 2000 BLA  
: August 25, 2000  
[2 25 gp  
This will confirm our agreement that within seven days of the ratification of the 2000  
agreement, the Union and the Companiy shal] meet for the purpose of reviewing and  
confirming negouated changes to the BLA, since 1989, for incorporation in the 2000  
agreement.  
Sincerely,  
Emest R. “Billv” Thompson, Chairman  
Union Negotiating Committee  
Confirmed:  
L. W. Gonce, Manager, Labor Relations  
3  
   
: fi hf  
Company Proposal  
7-12-00  
September |, 2000  
Mr. Emest R. “Billy” Thompson  
Distnet Director  
United Steelworkers of America  
AFL-CIO-CLC, District 8  
85C Michae! Davenport Blvd.. Suite B  
Frankfort, Kentucky 4060}  
Dear Mir. thompson:  
Re: Letter of Agreement on, Printing of Contracts  
This will confirm the understanding reached during our 2000 negotiations on the issue of  
pnnting the Collective Bargaining Agreements and Benefit Booklets (the ° ‘Agreemenis).  
Upon raufication of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement. the parties will create  
mutually acceptable new Agreements.  
Said Agreements shall be printed at the expense of the Company. The printed  
Agreements will be distributed in a manner mutually acceptable to the pares.  
The parties shal] make best efforts to complete and distribute the Agreements within  
three (3) months of the ratification of the Agreements.  
The Company will provide the Union with electronic versions of all of the Avreements.  
Sincerely.  
i" Ww, Prez  
Manager Indusiria (hen  
Coniirmed:  
2  
newest OF  
Emesi R. “Billy” Thompson. District Director  
United of America  
### YI  
    
   
2./b-00  
     
   
257  
AK Steel Corporation  
PO. BOX 191 TELEPHONE 606.327 5847  
ASHLAND, KENTUCKY 41105-0191 FACSIMILE $06.329.7237  
, 2000  
Mr. Emest R. “Billy” Thompson  
District Director  
United Steelworkers of America  
AFL-CIO-CLC, District 8  
85C Michae! Davenport Blvd., Suite B  
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601  
Dear Mr. Thompson:  
Re: Overtime Averaging  
a.  
) L. William Gonce  
### MANAGER  
### RELATIONS  
   
This letter is to confirm that during the course of the 2000 negotiations, the Company  
agreed with the Local Union’s request that effective September 1, 2000, the following  
overtime amendmient will be applied to all supplementary agreements in effect at the  
Ashland Works on September 1, 2000:  
Emplovees transferring between department, units or lines of progression will  
be given overtime hours equal to the average overtime hours currently in the  
unit or line of progression to which they transfer. The average overtime hours  
will be calculated bv adding the number of overtime hours (overtime hours  
worked plus refusals) on the unit overtime list and dividing the total by the  
of employees on the list.  
This amendment supercedes all supplementary agreement overtime language to the  
contrary.  
Sincerely,  
L. W. Gonce  
Manager  
Industrial Relations  
Confirmed:  
  
Emest R. “Billy” Thompson, District Director  
United Steelworkers of America  
. pee | a  
On  
A-8 Holidays  
   
Zp a  
oO  
a Corporation  
Ashland Works  
Union Proposal  
Holidays  
June 7, 2000  
Modify Section 11 Subsection “11.321 The Holidays specified are” to include:  
Martin Luther King’s Birthday.  
/ | SHOR be- 27-08 |  
Ao 3 | Ry ze  
eel Corporation  
Ashiand Works  
Union Proposal  
Family and Medical Leave Act  
June 7, 2000  
B-11 Family and Medical Leave  
Add the following sentence to the first paragraph of the Family and Medical  
Leave Benefits M.O.U.  
“Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to provide lesser benefits than  
required under federai iaw.”  
* fi  
### AL EPROM  
, | mt  
f AK Steel Corporation  
Ashland Works  
Union Proposal  
Employment Security  
June 7, 2000  
B-2 Employment Security  
### SECURITY PLAN  
Increase the continuous service requirement for purposes of eligibility for the  
protections of the Employment Security Plan to three years of continuous  
service for those employees hired on or after September 1, 2000.  
aS  
24  
  
4 6  
AK Steel Corporation  
Ashland Works  
Union Proposal!  
Vacation Option Plan  
June 7, 2000  
B.13 Day at a Time Vacation  
Mr. Earnest R. “Billy” Thompson, Chairmen  
Union Negotiating Committee  
United Steelworkers of America  
Deer Mr. Thompson:  
Subject: Single-Day Vacations  
Employees entitled to three or more weeks of vacation will be allowed to designate  
one week of vacation to be taken in single days according to the following  
orocedures.  
1. Employees must elect to take this option at the time of scheduling their  
regular vacation.  
2. Employees must notify supervision by 7:00 a.m. Wednesday prior to the  
calendar week in which the employees desire to take a single day of  
vacation, However, in case of emergency, this advance notice  
requirement may be waived by mutual agreement between the employee  
and supervision.  
in the event the employee's schedule is such that he is not scheduled on  
the requested vacation day, the requested day will not be charged against  
the employee's vacation allotment.  
3. Vacations under these guidelines will be granted at times most desired by  
employees (longer service employées will be given preference as to  
choice}, but the final right to allot days of vacation is exclusively reserved  
to the Company in order to insure the orderly operations based on the  
operating conditions during the week for which the vacation is requested.  
Additionally, Management reserves the exclusive right to deny an  
employee's request for a single day's vacation during @ week which  
contains any of the specified holidays, mill outages, and for other  
legitimate reasons. gli  
of"  
a\  
30  
4. Employees’ requests for weekly vacation periods shall be given priority  
over single-day vacation requests.  
### NOT x  
5. Time thus paid will, be counted as hours worked for purposes of  
determining overtime or premium pay liability.  
6. A day of vacation taken pursuant to this Memorandum of Understanding  
snall mean calendar day and the employee shal! not be entitled to work  
during such calendar day.  
7 [nm the event an empioyee elects to schedule a week of vacation pursuant  
to this Understanding and has not taken ail five days by November 1 he  
shall be assigned days of vacation as may be mutually agreed upon by the  
Company and the employee. In the event the parties are unable to reach  
agreement, the Company shall have the sole discretion to assign days of  
vacation.  
8. Each of the five single vacation days shall be paid at a rate equal to one  
fifth of the weekly vacation pay applicable to the week in which the day  
is actually taken.  
9. Disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be processed as provided for  
in Section 7.8 of the Basic Labor Agreement.  
1C.For the purpose of holiday pay eligibility, under the provisions of Sub-  
section 11.4112 of the B.L.A., employees who elect either the day before  
or the day after a holiday as vacation under this program shall be eligible  
under 11.41, for such holiday pay, provided they worked their last  
scheduled turn immediately before and their first scheduled turn  
immediately after such holiday and vacation day.  
Very truly yours,  
John G. Hritz, Executive Vice President and General Counse!  
AK Steel Corporation  
Confirmed:  
Earnest R. “Billy” Thompson, Chairman qf)  
a| \  
### K  
August 1, 1999  
      
    
3  
orkers of Amenca’ \  
| a \  
. ateway Center  
tttsburgh, PA 15222  
Dear Mr. Palm:  
12°?  
During the negotiations leading to the ++SBasic Labdér Agreement it was  
agreed that the probationary period for new employees and those hired after a  
break in continuity of service subsequent to would increase from  
520 to 1,000 hours of actual work. This will confirm the understanding of the  
parties that eligibility for coverage under the Program of Insurance Benefits (PIB)  
will commence for such empioyees following 60 calendar days from the date of  
last hiring rather than at the completion of the probationary penod.  
Sincerely,  
Thomas Stern  
Vice-President  
mployee Relations  
Confirmed:  
Pain Chairman  
(On Negotiating Committee  
Cas  
### UNIT #1  
Assigned Maint.  
18  
Leader 14  
Repainnan SMP 13  
Repairman A 13  
Repauman B 12  
Repainman ©  
### IRONMAKING  
Rigper  
Leader 13  
Rigger A 12  
Rigger B 1}  
Rigger C y  
Helper A 7  
Helper B 5  
Weld  
Leader 13  
Welder A 12  
Welder B 11  
Welder © 9  
Pipe  
Leader 13  
Fitter A 12  
Fitter B i  
Fitter C 9  
Helper A 9  
LleIper B 5  
Electrical Construction  
Leader 13  
—O Electrician A 12  
Electrician B 1  
Electrician C 9  
  
### BS  
es  
a  
   
### ASSIGNED MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT  
UNIT #2*  
Assigned Maint.  
Inspector 15  
Steel Melting Caster  
Leader 14 Leader 14  
Rep SMP !3 Rep SMP 13  
43 Rep A 43  
Rep B 12 Rep B 12  
Rep C 10 Rep C 10  
    
       
Apprentices  
     
Maintenance Pool  
Unassigned joumeyman  
### UNIT #5  
Assigned Maint.  
Inspector 5  
Leader 14  
Repainnan SMP 13  
Repainnan A 13  
Repairman DB 12  
Repainnan € 10  
     
(13), (12),(10}  
(Scale)  
### STEELMAKING  
Rigger  
Leader 3  
Rigger A 12  
Rigger B 11  
Rigger C 9  
Helper A 7  
Liclper BP  
Weld  
Leader 13  
Welder A 12  
Welder B tl  
Welder CD  
Pipe  
Leader 13  
Fitter A 12  
Fitler B 1]  
Fitter C 9  
Helper A 7  
Electrical Construction  
Leader 13  
Electrician A 12  
Electrician B i$  
Electrician C 9  
Helper AD  
*This is a single Seniority Unit with Ovo lines of progression,  
### FINISHING  
Rigger  
Leader 13  
Riggers A 12  
Rigger #3 i  
Rigger C 9  
IleIpes A ?  
5  
Weld  
Leader 13  
Welder A 412  
Welder B 11  
Pipe  
Leader 13  
Fitter A 12  
Fitter 1 il  
Fitter C 9  
Helper A 7  
Helper B 5  
Electrical Construction  
Leader 13  
Electrician A 12  
Electrician B ll  
Electrician C 9  
  
   
  
[P25  
### UNIT #6 PLANT PROJECTS  
Asstyned Maint,  
Mill Leades 14  
Clerical Unit  
Mill Check 6  
### PROJECTS  
Rigger  
ieader 13  
Rigger A 12  
p Rigger B il  
Rigger C 9  
Helper A 7  
Helper oS  
Weld  
Leader 3  
Welder A 12  
Welder B  
Welder C _9  
Pipe  
Leader 13  
‘Fiuter A 42  
——— PF Finer B il  
Fitter C 9  
Helper A 7  
Helper I  
Electrical Construction  
Leader 13  
> Electrician A 12  
Electrician VW  
Electrician C 9  
  
we  
7 oe.  
a  
$3  
A-7/-b  
AK Steel Corporation  
Ashland Works  
Union Proposal  
Vacation Bonus  
June 7, 2000  
Vacation Bonus  
Effective August 1. 2001, a vacation bonus of two hundred fifty dollars  
(5250.00) per week will be paid to employees for each week of vacation  
taken In the ten (10) consecutive week period beginning with the first full  
week following the week containing New Year's Day.  
35  
### STP -  
: Company Proposal  
7-12-00  
September 1. 2000  
Mr. Ernest R. “Billv” Thompson  
District Director  
United Steelworkers of America  
AFL-CIO-CLC, District 8  
85C Michael Davenport Blvd.. Suite B  
_ Frankfort, Kentucky 40601  
Dear Mr. Thompson:  
Re: Lag Dates  
This letter is to confirm that during the course of the 2000 negotiations the parties agreed  
that the existing benefit lag date system shall continue in effect unchanged for the term of  
the new Collecuve Agreement.  
Sincerely,  
  
L. W. Gonce  
Manager  
Industrial Relations  
Confirmed:  
Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson. District Director  
United Steelworkers of America  
| al  
3h  
  
j  
### COmPANY PROPOSAL  
August 31, 2000  
, 2000  
Mr. Emest R. “Bully” Thompson  
District Director  
United Steelworkers of America te  
AFL-CIO-CLC, Distnet 8  
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B  
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601  
Dear Mr. Thompson:  
Re: Grievance Backlog  
This letter is to confirm that during the course of the 2000 negotiations the parties agreed  
that cooperative efforts to successfully address both the grievance backlog and continuing  
disagreements over aspects of contracting out were essential steps towards enhancing  
Labor-Management relations at the Ashland Works. Consistent with this, and in  
recognition of the understandings reached in contracting out, the parties agree to the  
following:  
1. All contracting out grievances and requests for expedited arbitration  
currently pending in the gnevance procedure are hereby resolved on a  
non-precedent setting basis.  
2. The Company will make payments totaling $2,900,000 in accordance  
with a detailed payment schedule to be developed and provided by the  
Union.  
Sincerely,  
L. W. Gonce  
Manager  
Industrial Relations  
Confirmed:  
Se  
Emest R. “Billy” Thompson, District Director  
United Steelworkers of America | aj  
  
37  
App FF  
### COMPANY PROPOSAL  
August 31, 2000  
, 2000  
Mr. Emest R. “Billy” Thompson  
Director, District 8  
United Steelworkers of America  
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B  
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601  
Dear Mr. Thompson:  
Re: Capital Investment  
This confirms the Company’s commitment that during the term of the new collective  
bargaining agreement, a blast furnace top charging equipment change for the Amanda  
Blast Fumace shall be undertaken. The extent and scope of such work will be determined  
solely by the Company and may consist of the latest technological methods and processes  
available to the Company at such time as the work commences. Furthermore, the Com-  
pany restates its intention to maintain the blast furnace to maximize its operation based  
upon market conditions.  
Sincerely,  
L. W. Gonce  
Manager  
Industrial Relations  
Confirmed:  
le  
Emest R. “Billy” Thompson, District Duector Date  
United Steelworkers of America  
33  
} > PLL G  
' , j  
Union Counter  
Proposal  
August 31, 2000  
, 2000  
Mr. Emest R. “Bully” Thompson  
Distnct Director.  
United Steelworkers of Amenca  
AFL-CIO-CLC, Distnct 8  
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B  
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601  
‘Dear Mr. Thompson:  
Re: Unassigned Personnel  
This letter is to confirm that during the course of the 2000 negotiations, the Company  
agreed with the Local Union’s request that effective (contract effective date), the  
manzgement will post in the Assigned Maintenance Repair Department the number of  
permanent vacancies which presently exist in each Assigned Maintenance Repair Unit  
based upon the number of Assigned Maintenance Repairmen working in the unit who are  
not incumbent in that unit. Management may delay the transfer of a successful bidder in  
the event it believes such transfer will dilute the craft. In no event shall such delay last  
longer than six (6) months. |  
Sincerely,  
L. W. Gonce  
Manager  
Industnal Relations  
Confirmed:  
  
Emest R. “Billy” Thompson, District Director  
United Steelworkers of Amenca 4] |  
»  
>  
. Aye K  
### COMPANY PROPOSAL  
August 30, 2000  
Union Issue B-35 Neutrality  
No letter agreement on “Neutrality”  
39 al|  
ns 3a Ape S  
### | COMPANY PROPOSAL  
8/31/00  
### (UNPUBLISHED LETTER)  
### MEMORANDUM REGARDING  
### . TRADE AND CRAFT REVITALIZATION  
### AND CERTAIN CONTRACTING-OUT MATTERS  
   
{n the negotiations for a new labor agreement, the parties conducted the reviews provided for in  
the contract provisions concerning the Revitalization of the Trade and Craft forces and the  
Contracting-Out Annual Review. Comprehensive sets of understanding, set forth below,  
resulted from these reviews. This Memorandum will become effective on September 1, 2000,  
and will remain in effect for the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
A. Minimum Craft Workforce Levels  
1. The Company will maintain the following minimum craft workforce levels:  
   
Craft Position Workforce Level  
Assigned Maintenance Repairmen 150  
Pipefitters | 15  
Welders 25  
Riggers 31  
Electrica! Construction 19  
Electronics 37  
Steam: Power 16  
Electric Power 13  
Roundhouse Repairmen 19  
Machinists 16  
Bricklayers - 12  
Refrigeration Repairmen 4  
The minimum workforce levels identified above are based on the current operation at  
the Ashland facility, and in the event the Company adds new facilities or operations,  
the parties shall meet to discuss the appropnate manning levels for such additions.  
### IN  
The craft positions of Carpenter, Tinner, and Painter shall be combined to create a single  
new position known as CPT Technician. Incumbents of these positions shall be paid at  
the level of Zone 13 with the same incentive earnings as those employees assigned to  
Unit 6. Additionally, the craft position of Electric Repairman will receive the same  
incentive earnings as those employees assigned to Unit 6.  
The craft positions listed below will have no minimum workforce levels. After  
incumbent employees permanently vacate these positions, any remaining work may  
be assigned to the crafts listed in Section A, paragraph 1 above.  
Craft Position  
fm 4)  
CPT Technician Vig  
Electric Repair |  
(por  
lod  
“fo  
Each employee. ane craft positions listed above in Section A, paragraphs | and 2 will  
be scheduled not less than 40 hours tn their craft.  
Atleast four of the Machinists idenufied in Section A.] may be assigned to the present  
segment repair facility and may be assigned to machining work that ts currently being  
contracted out. The Company shall meet with the local Union Contracting-Out Com-  
mittee to review the work to be performed in order that the shop can function in the  
most cost effective manner and so as to optimize the utilization of those additional  
Machinists. Consistent with the provisions of Section A, the volume of machining work  
which exceeds that which the total plant force of Machinists are able to cover shall be  
considered properly contracted out. The four Machinists referenced above shall receive  
an incentive earnings opportunity consistent with the incentive paid to existing  
Machinists.  
The workforce levels established tn this Memorandum may be modified as necessarv in  
the event that any of the exceptions set forth in Section B of the Employment Security  
Plan should apply.  
B. Assigned Maintenance Department  
I.  
The craft positions of Rigger, Welder, Pipefitter, and Electrical Construction will be  
established in Steelmaking, Ironmaking, and the Finishing senionty units of the  
Assigned Maintenance Department. A new seniority unit, Unit No. 6 (Plant Projects),  
will be established in the Assigned Maintenance Department to supplement other  
departments and reduce the number of contractors.  
a. The craft positions of Rigger, Welder, Pipefitter, and Electrical Construction will be  
eliminated from the Maintenance Shops seniority department.  
b. The craft positions newly established in the Assigned Maintenance Department will  
be posted for bid for employees incumbent to the Rigger, Welder, Pipefitter, and  
Electrical Construction crafts within 30 days from the effective date of the Collective  
Bargaining Agreement. All craftsmen currently incumbent to those positions elimi-  
nated from the Maintenance Shops senionty department may bid within seven days  
from the posting of the newly established craft positions in the Assigned Maintenance  
Department. If acraftsman incumbent to any eliminated position does not make a  
timely bid, the Company will assign the employee to a newly established craft  
position in the Assigned Maintenance Department.  
c, The number of permanent vacancies in each of the newly established crafts in each of  
the Assigned Maintenance Units will be determined by the Company and initially will  
not be less than the number of crafts currently assigned.  
d. Ovértime opportunities will be provided to the specific craft in each of the Assigned  
Maintenance units; separate overtime logs will be maintained by unit for each  
craft.  
e. Vacation scheduling units consisting of the newly created craft positions of Riggers,  
Welders, Pipefitters, and ElectricConstruction in each Assigned Maintenance aye  
seniority unit shall be maintained.  
Cin si]  
“A  
Successful bidde.. un the newly established craft positions .. the Assigned Maintenance  
Units, in accordance with Section B, paragraph | above, will receive the regular craft  
Journeyman wage rate plus the incentive earnings opportunities from the Assigned  
Maintenance Repairmen Incentive Plan existing in the unit to which they are  
permanently assigned.  
a. The current Assigned Maintenance Incentive Plan for the Finishing Department will  
be redesigned to provide an increased incentive earnings opportunity of 13 percent.  
The parties will meet tava the Incentive Plan design to ensure a plan target of  
25 percent is achievable onja normal operating basis.  
— 3)  
b. The incumbent crafismen in the Plant Project Unit, pursuant to Section B, paragraph  
| above, will have their existing incentive earnings opportunity increased to the  
average of the Blast Furnace and Finishing Mill Assigned Maintenance Repair  
Incentive Plan.  
   
c. The inclusion of the newly established crafts in an Assigned Maintenance Incentive  
Plan will not lower the incentive pay for employees eligible for payments under those  
Incentive Plans.  
C. Overtime Opportunities ut f lant Gos PAN) od in Jo  
    
   
   
Dunng outages rafismen incumbent in the specific department in which contractors of  
the same trade or craft are performing outage work in the plant will be provided the  
opportunity to work |6-hour shifts for the duration of the outage.  
i fy Cy  
ct tL = = >  
      
t  
~ VE  
   
   
    
     
     
5 shy th £ The Contracting-Out  
Committee will approve as properly contracted out all contracting-out requests and  
notices for all non-production work performed during outages.  
For purposes of this Memorandum, an outage is defined as the period of time a  
production unit is idled in an operating department for the purpose of performing  
maintenance work. |  
This Section C will not apply to the contracting out of work as permitted by Section 2.4  
of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
D. Certain Contracting-Out and Other Matters  
LOrtgintt Uitte eS  
### YL  
tw)  
The work items listed on Attachment A will be considered properly contracted out.  
In the event of any reduction in force resulting in layoffs, the work items listed in  
Attachment A will be retrieved from the contractor forces and assigned to affected,  
qualified bargaining unit employees.  
At the regularly scheduled meetings of the Contracting-Out Committee, the parties wil]  
meet and attempt to resolve any problems in connection with the application and admin-  
istration of this Memorandum. The will continue to discuss contracting-out  
notices and anv other current problems with respect to contracting out brought to the  
attention of the Committee. Disputes arising from the application or administration of  
this Memorandum will be processed in accordance with Sections 2.44 - 2.47 or Section  
6 of the collective bargaining agreement.  
7 pol"  
-~  
3. The Union withauws its grievances regarding the initia! posting/manning and Incentive  
Plan at the ESM facility on the basis that the ESM facility Incentive Plan wil! be  
modified effective September |, 2000, to reflect this unit as an indirect incentive under  
the Steelmaking Unit Incentive Plan.  
4. The Company will maintain a minimum workforce level of 28 Masonry Utilitvmen.  
5. Include Electric Power and Steam Power in Incentive Plans, indexed as indirects to Blast  
Furnace production.  
### FOR THE UNION: FOR THE COMPANY:  
   
   
a is  
re ee  
LWG/vle  
43 gw  
### oa 7 ATTACHMENT A  
### ASHLAND WORKS MEMORANDUM REGARDING  
### TRADE AND CRAFT REVITALIZATION  
### AND CERTAIN CONTRACTING-OUT MATTERS  
e Grass Cutting/Weed Control  
Snow Removal  
Janitorial Work (Leader Janitor and Janitor on seniority unit chart for Sanitation Dept.)  
Pressure Washing  
Trash Hauling and Dumpster Truck  
Water Truck/Vacuum Truck  
Sludge Hauling and Sludge Handling  
e Slag Pot Repair  
e Unloading and Loading Materials at the Marquis Terminal  
op G  
oud w  
wou os ALP OT  
### . COMPANY PROPOSAL  
August 31, 2000  
### (UNPUBLISHED)  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
The parties agree to the following regarding the unpublished Memorandum Regarding Trade and ©  
Craft Revitalization and Certain Contracting-Out Matters: ;  
1. For purposes of paragraph A.5, any machining work performed bv contractors in a week  
during which the Company has offered Company Machinists an opportunity to work eight  
hours of overtime in the week shall be considered a volume of machining work which  
exceeds that which the total plant force of Machinists are able to cover.  
Overtime Opportunities  
For weeks in which contractors are in the plant performing work not covered by Section C,  
paragraph 1, craftsmen incumbent in the specific department in which contractors of the  
same trade or craft are performing such work will be provided the Opportunity to work eight  
hours of overtime per week. The Contracting-Out Committee will approve as properly  
contracted out requests and notices for all non-production work performed during weeks for  
which the Company provides the aforementioned eight-hour per week overtime opportunity.  
### IN)  
   
### FOR THE UNION: FOR THE COMPANY:  
Tim Imes L. W. Gonce  
President 1865 Manager, Industrial Relations  
John Thompson Daniel Hines  
Grievance Committee Chairman Industnal Relations Manager  
Dennis Ward  
Contracting-Out Chairman ae  
4x  
_————  
4 «, s *  
ao 7  
### , UNION PROPOSAL  
### OFFICE & TECHNICAL  
08/31/00  
)  
### MEMORANDUM  
Regarding Office & Technical Bargaining Rights  
This will confirm the parties’ understandings regarding the Office & Technical unit. The  
USWA will withdraw all objections to the O&T decertification election as well as any pending O&T  
grievances. The Company will withdraw its appeal of the Regional decision and agrees  
there will be no discrimination by the Company against former O&T Bargaining unit employees.  
The four (4) O&T coal injection operator jobs will be transferred into the Production and  
Maintenance unit and will be paid at the next highest zone that corresponds to their current rate of  
pay. Each incumbent O&T employee on those positions will be afforded the option of becoming a  
member of the bargaining unit represented by the USWA or remaining as a noo-represented  
employee. Any employee who elects to remain non-represented shail remain in that position until a  
natural attrition event or transfer causes a permanent vacancy.  
All future permanent vacancies in the coal injection operator positions shall be posted for bid in  
accordance with the terms of the basic labor agreement  
i  
### FOR THE UNION FOR THE COMPANY  
af al  
Yl, of  
mie 5/7  
WN sigh