  
(, 207 ee.  
### AGREEMENT  
### BETWEEN  
### ASF — KEYSTONE, INC  
### GRANITE CITY PLANT  
### AND  
### UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 1063  
OCTOBER 1, 2004 —  
Qa, 266  
131  
Fb pgs  
1.  
### REPORT OFF PROCEDURE  
All absences must be reported to the guard office before the start of  
your shift at (618) 452-2111.  
2.  
3.  
4.  
amo ep  
You should give the guard the following information:  
Name  
. Department  
. Clock Card Number  
. Reason for absence  
. Date you expect to return  
Obtain a call-in number from. the guard.  
i, Bn  
a a we TE a? “  
If you are going'to be, absent five (5) of more consecutive scheduled  
days for any reason other t than ilinéss or injury.you must cal! the Human  
Resources Department by the end of tHe third. day,  
a  
oe 3 vor wz  
In any event you must report off.at least once every five consecutive  
scheduled “ays ee any: ‘Period of; absence.  
  
*  
=  
Ame 4 *.  
rs > = + cate ay ke  
"4 fy  
°  
, ae  
+  
   
  
a+  
.  
4  
7  
   
   
> >  
*  
  
’  
t .  
fill +, os  
- .  
. 5 . .  
eye Me ,  
  
eee tee  
. * oa . . .  
,  
«  
'  
+  
oe  
ae on +  
. 7 £  
*  
a 1° ew ee  
' . ar a 4 ae  
one . eas 7  
  
‘  
bm we 8 tee we a we  
. . a Je rh ate eo Ff 4+  
. ' 1  
' tart te m4 +  
sore of ‘ , fad eee’  
. - ete wee eee et  
4  
|  
ta ae Be fe ee  
ss Le ary  
-* « 8 .  
. »' tbe,  
. atdas  
eu hee hae  
a? .  
ase  
. =,  
ese  
‘ a4  
sg ts <r ’  
as wie ‘ yk oof rs  
eat “ee flea,  
tee + ave  
eae . “ eae?  
. i © HW  
   
  
+  
=.  
bas  
   
+.  
.  
   
  
   
.  
  
‘  
  
teal  
ae  
   
   
   
.  
et  
»  
‘  
t  
« « %  
au  
*  
gd  
ae  
- =  
ane ane  
-  
.  
  
.  
  
+  
  
  
°  
.  
roe  
   
   
   
Article No. Page No.  
26 50  
51  
Appendix I- Hourly Wage Rate for Non Incentive Work........... SZ  
Appendix Il-Hourly Wage Rate for Incentive Work 53  
TS. Bulletin 43  
16 Discharge 40  
FQ) 43  
15) «Grievances, Adjustment Of 35  
### DORON 35  
Between the Union and The Company 35  
### PRUNES 36  
37  
Medical 35  
Seat: | 37  
### SABO 37  
kh 38  
a ere 39  
Interruption or Interference with 39  
4 General, Wa WS... ners 9  
25 Group [msurance Plan 50  
1) ON AY S sess 19  
Hisliday CaletiGar, 76  
5 Hourly Wage Rate Establishment and HH  
ours Of WGK 17  
Work Day and Work. WeOR 17  
Schedule of Working 17  
20 Jury or Witness Duty and Funeral Leave 43  
22 Local Working 44  
2 —«— 7  
Memoranda of Understanding 53  
No. | Hot Worcs: 53  
No. 2 Premium Overtime Day 54  
No. 3 Inspectors & Sample Casting 54  
No. 4 Occupational Request Procedures 54  
No. 5 Blacksmith/Tool Treater 56  
Blacksmith/Tool ts 56  
| — a Y 56  
Phase [f ~ Intermediate 56  
Phase U1] — Advarced 57  
Accelerated 58  
  
No.6 Brick Repairs — Electric Furnace............. 58  
Saturday and Sunday 58  
.Scheduled/Emergency Teardown during Work Week ........59  
No. 7 . Daily Overtime cece 60  
No. 8 Chipper Vacancies.......... 60  
No. 9 Scheduling Agreement 6|  
_ Regular Assignments During-The Work Day.... :6l  
Overtime Within a. Work Day 62  
When a Full Department is not Scheduled 62  
And Limited Number of Occupations Are’  
Required on any Day of the-Week (M-P)  
When A Full Department is Not Scheduled and ................ 62  
Only a Limited Number of Occupants are  
Required On-The 6th or 7th Day. - -  
No. 10 Special Training Jobs 63  
No. || Welder Vacancies......... ssa nesta nar ra 64  
No. 12 Job Description and Classification Manual .............. 65  
No. 13 Special Department Scheduling/Overtime Premium 66  
No. 14 Special Conditions ii! 66  
No. 15 Alcohol &.Drug Policy ...:5:...... 66  
No. 16. Entry.Into The General Maintenance Occupation’. 10  
No. 17 Definition For Leadperson...2:.i:4.. BS 10  
Nd: 18 USWA-PAC #  
. No. 19 Small Parts 72  
ASF Small Parts 72  
Transfer to or from ASF Small Parts - a ae  
ASF Small Parts Wage RAC am 74  
“ho, . Ad Hoc.Incentive Team 4s L 74  
ue New Hire Wage Rates ~ ‘Large Part Operation’ 74  
Utilization Of Leadperson 34 sae can 75  
Safety Dividend bo  
No. 20. Study Team — Swing vs. Fixed Shifts. 75  
11. Overtime Premium 20  
Hours 21  
‘ 20  
Offsets.& Pyramiding gaged 22  
25 Pension Plan 50  
re 6  
21 Prior Agreements............. kent 44  
6 Production Standards............. 1a  
TL 6  
Wr *  
   
-3 Recognition and Union Security 8  
Collective Bargaining Umit 8  
### Union SECUTILY 8  
bet, Check-Off 8  
Q Reporting and Minimum Pay 18  
17 Safety & Health 4]  
AB Seniority 25  
_-  _ Basis of eM a 25  
ot, of Continuous: Service 26  
Application of Seniority, 26  
Calc of Continuous Service/Term of Seniority Rights 28  
ot Probationary Employees 29  
Absence Due to Occupational Disease OF Injuries 30  
Transfers re 30  
Leave Of 31  
Millitary 31  
=; , Supervisory/Technical. Employees/Union  
“a. AndCommitteemen = wt, "oh  
Discontinuance of a Department. sates 33  
=~ Seniority Service sansa  
cr: . Supervisory Trainees:.:...:.:... ee ee st 33  
-, Partial Disability ve 33  
23 Allowance 46  
### CONIIONS tt 46  
or Bligibility ........ Ba duo 46  
., Seale of ALOWANCE 47  
_ Calculation and Payment of Allowance AT  
_Non-Duplication of a 47  
Reduction.for Retiree Health &: Pension. Benefits 48  
_¢.. _. Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Deduction... AD  
J: Shift Premium................. 15  
rk, Premium... 15  
ac... Shifts Defined .............. 15  
Application Chatt........ 16  
+ Application sens 16  
24 SUB Plan, Replacement Of With 49  
14 Union Committeemen pe Slee 34  
12 Vacations Ze  
Eligibility and Allowance... ae  
;_, Attaining Additional Service........... sei  
«.. ..Payment of Allowance........ nuevo gai 23  
Vacation 23  
Vacations for those Returning from Military 24  
   
### PREAMBLE  
This. Agreement, dated October |, 2004, is entered t  
### AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES (ASF), Granite City  
in Granite City, [linois, hereinafter referred to as the “Co  
### the UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (AFL-CI  
of its Local Union No. 1063, hereinafter referred to as the  
### ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE  
(a) The purpose of the Company and the Union in ente  
Labor Agreement is to promote harmony and efficiency ir  
the Company; to set forth their agreement on rates of pay,  
of employment, or other conditions of employment, to pr  
peaceful adjustment of differences which may arise; an  
uninterrupted operations in the plant.  
(b) It is the continuing policy of the Company and the U  
provisions of this Agreement shall be applied to all emplo  
regard to race, color, religious creed, national origin, phys:  
disability or sex. The representatives of the Union and t  
in all steps of the grievance procedure and in all dealings  
parties shall comply with this provision.  
(c) [tis the continuing policy of the Company and the  
employees shall be provided a work place free from sexua  
For purposes of this provision (sexual harassment) includ  
limited to unwelcome sexual advances or propositions  
demands for sexual favors and all other verbal or physic  
an offensive sexual character, including offensive sexu  
offensive sexual comments and innuendos, unsolicited an  
offensive sexual overtures or touching, displaying carto  
or other objects of a sexual nature in the workplace, wh  
hostile, intimidating or offensive work environment. T  
and Union confirm that all claims of sexual harassment sh  
seriously, investigated thoroughly while maintaining the h  
of confidentiality, and complaints may be brought to the  
either the Company or the Union in an atmosphere free ¢  
Sexual harassment complaints are subject to resofution  
grievance procedure set forth in Article 15 of this Agreen  
initiated at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure, and shall  
in the grievance procedure on a confidential basis and ina  
free of retaliation.  
z  
4  
  
(d) A joint Committee on Civil Rights shall be established at the plant.  
‘ The Union representation on the Committee shall be no more than three  
‘- members of the Union, which’ may-include the President and Chairman  
the Adjustment Committee. .The Union members shall be certified  
to the Plant Manager by the Union and the Company members shall be  
certified to the Union.  
= = 4 :  
  
(e) The Company and Union members of the joint Committee shall  
at mutually agreeable times but no less than once each quarter. The  
joint Committee shall review matters involving Civil Rights and advise  
with the Company and the Union concerning them, but shall have no  
over the filing or processing of grievances. This provision  
‘Shall not affect any existing right to file a gnevance nor does it enlarge  
the time limits for filing and processing grievances.  
Gf) The Company and Union jointly commit to the establishment of  
Employee-Invoivement Teams to deal :with workplace, issues. Teams  
:' will consist of both Union and Company representatives. Teams will:  
“be responsible for making “recommendations, making decisions or  
" sesolving issues in accordance with Team Charters and by utilizing Team’  
-"Deinciples and Guidelines. Teams shall not have authority to discuss or  
resolve grievances, and other than recommend changes to the parties,  
teams have no authority.to alter or amend the.contract. The Company  
  
and’ Union shall jointly provide.training to, Team members.in decision  
techniques and problem'tesolution” 3)  
aie 2! Mya y 4 Boe 4 ar ’ 1 Lo ik %  
A i  
it ne +h = i” ‘ os de ts  
aA ; on A aS  
4) =,  
' Pode i= * --  
(a) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the management of  
. the.plant and:the direction of the working forces, including the right to  
plan, direct, and control. plant operations; to'hire and instruct; to attain  
- maximum operating efficiency; to introduce new, improved  
.-production - methods or facilities; to. demote; transfer, lay  
off, discipline, and to-suspend or discharge for :proper.cause,  
exclusively in the Company... «% ww at FY  
-¢ noe "5:  
‘ ae Ee ve  
4,0 4" eo oe, ft Ba PS oat, “  
{b)The rights herein set forth will not be exercised for the purpose of  
. interfering with the right of employees to become members of the Union .  
ty or against employees because of membership in-or activity on behalf of  
tie Union. coo iia  
### ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION AND UNION SECURITY  
### Section 1, Collective Bargaining Representative. The Company  
recognizes that the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining  
representative, during the life of this Agreement, for all of the employees  
at the Granite City Plant, located in Granite City, Illinois, of the Company  
and as defined in Section 2 of this Article, in the matter of wages, rates  
of pay, hours of employment or other conditions of employment.  
Section 2, Collective Bargaining Unit. The Term “employee” as used  
in this Agreement applies to all employees in the Granite City Plant,  
located in Granite City, Illinois, except and excluding the following  
groups:  
(a) All supervisory, technical, clerical, and plant protection  
employees.  
(b) All employees in the following occupations:  
Pattem Checkers  
Pattern Makers and Apprentices  
Pattern Changers  
Patternmaker Helper  
Machinists, Apprentices and Machinist Helpers  
Electricians, Apprentices and Electrician Helpers  
Section 3. Union Security.  
(a) Each employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition  
of employment, be or become a member of the Union not Jater than  
the 31st calendar day following the date of this Agreement or not later  
than the 31st calendar day following the beginning of his employment,  
whichever is later, Each such employee shall, as a condition of  
continued employment, remain a member of the Union in good standing  
to the extent of paying membership dues as certified by the International  
Secretary/Treasurer of the Union.  
(b)} The foregoing provisions shal! be effective in accordance and  
consistent with applicable provisions of federal and state law.  
Section 4. Check-Off.  
(a) During the term of this Agreement, the Company will continue to  
check off Union initiation fees, monthly Union membership dues and  
assessments as designated by the Intemational Secretary/Treasurer of  
the Union and as authorized by individually signed voluntary check-off  
authorization cards furnished by and submitted to the Company.  
(6) Deductions on the basis of authorization cards submitted to  
the Company shall commence with dues for the month in which the  
Company receives such authorization card. Dues for a given month  
sha}] be deducted from the first pay in the succeeding month  
or months.  
(c) If a member of the Union, after having earned wages for 40 hours  
or more in a calendar month, is laid off or terminated, the Company  
at the time of paying wages to such employee, shal] deduct dues for  
the preceding and the current calendar month and remit them to the  
International Secretary/Treasurer of the Union.  
(d) The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against  
any and all forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action  
taken or not taken by the Company in reliance upon written information  
furnished the Company by the Union for the purpose of complying with  
any of the provisions of this Section.  
(¢) The Company will furnish the Union, once each month, a list of  
the names of employees from whom they did not deduct dues and the  
reason therefore.  
(f) The foregoing provisions shall be effective in accordance and  
consistent with applicable provisions of federal law,  
### ARTICLE 4 - GENERAL WAGES  
Section 1.  
It is the intent of the Union, its agents and its members to assist the  
Company to obtain maximum productivity and efficiency from cach  
employee during the term of this Agreement. The Company, the Union  
and the Unions= members subscribe to the principle of a fair days work,  
competently and safely performed for a fair days pay in order to secure  
and maintain full and efficient productivity on the part of all.  
Section Z.  
(a) Effective dates for the wage changes are set forth in the applicable  
Appendices. Occupational hourly wage rates for non-incentive work  
are set forth in Appendix 1. Incentive base rates and the applicable  
9  
hourly incentive adders for incentive work are set forth in Appendix I.  
(b) The present occupational hourly wage rates of certain Trade and  
Craft occupations which on March 31, 1990 were on a rate higher than  
the rate established for their job class shall be changed by the cents per  
hour change for their evaluated job class on the specified effective dates.  
The “B” and “C™ rates for such Trade and Craft occupations shal} be  
changed by the cents per hour change for the job classes respectively  
two and four job classes below the evaluated job class of the occupation  
on such specified effective dates.  
Section 3.  
(a) A copy of the new schedules of hourly wage rates to become  
effective pursuant to Section 2 of this Article shall be furnished the  
### Union.  
(b} The hourly wage rates shown on such schedules, and all hourly  
wage rates thereafter established or changed under Article 5, shall  
remain in effect for the remaining period of this Agreement after the  
respective effective dates specified in Appendices I and II, except as  
changes are permissible and accomplished under Article 5.  
Section 4.  
(a) The Local Plant Joint Apprenticeship Committee shal] consist of  
two members, plus, if required, a Journeyman of the Trade and Craft under  
discussion, appointed by the Union and two members, plus. if required,  
a Supervisor of the Trade and Craft under discussion, appointed by the  
Company. Such local plant committee shal] develop and maintain their  
particular programs under and pursuant to the framework and guidelines  
established by the Overall Joint Apprenticeship Committee. Thereafter,  
such local plant committee shall study and make recommendations with  
regard to the administration of the Apprenticeship Programs.  
(b) The following occupations are considered Trade and Craft  
occupations. Additives provided under prior collective bargaining  
agreements to the occupational hourly wage rate of these occupations  
will not result in changes to the Job Evaluation pointing:  
lL. Mason  
2. Blacksmith/Tool Treater  
3. Pipefitter  
10  
   
(c) Apprentices who have been indentured in an 8000-hour  
apprenticeship program shall be paida progressively increasing schedule  
of wages as follows:  
Hours  % of Journeyman’s  
Worked Occupational Hourly Rate  
First 1000 72.0%  
Second 1000 75.5%  
Third 1000 79.0%  
Fourth 1000 82.5%  
Fifth 1000 86.0%  
Sixth 1000 89.5%  
Seventh 1000 93.0%  
Eighth 1000 96.5%  
Apprentices who have been indentured in a 6000-hour apprenticeship  
program shall be paid a progressively increasing schedule of wages as  
follows:  
Hours % of Journeyman’s  
Worked Occupational Hourly Rate  
First 1000 712%  
Second 1000 77%  
Third 1000 82%  
Fourth 1000 87%  
Fifth 1000 92%  
Sixth 1000 97%  
Provided, however, that an indentured apprentice shall receive no less  
than the Occupational Hourly Rate of Laborer (Job Class 1-2).  
The apprentice must have demonstrated satisfactory progress in  
acquiring the necessary skill in his work processes and his related  
training must be up to date in order to qualify for each 1000-hour  
increase in rate. Upon satisfactory completion of the specified number  
of work hours and the related training requirements, the apprentice shall  
be paid the Journeyman'’s rate of the occupation to which he has been  
indentured.  
### ARTICLE 5 - HOURLY WAGE RATE ESTABLISHMENT  
### AND ADJUSTMENT  
(a) The job description and classification for each job in effect as of the  
date of this Agreement shall continue in effect unless (1) the Company  
i  
changes the job content (requirements of the job as to the training,  
skill, responsibility, effort, and working conditions) to the extent of  
one full job class or more; (2) the job is terminated or not occupied  
during a period of one year; or (3) the description and classification are  
changed in accordance with mutual agreement of officially designated  
representatives of the Company and the Union.  
(>) When and if from time to time the Company, at its discretion,  
establishes a new job or changes the job content (requirements of the  
job as to training, skill, responsibility, effort, and working conditions)  
of an existing job, a new job description and classification for the new  
or changed job shall be established in accordance with the following  
procedure:  
(1) The Company will develop a description and classification of the  
job in accordance with provisions of the American Steel Foundries Job  
Description and Classification Manual as revised February 24, 1965,  
hereinafter referred to as the revised Manual.  
(2) The proposed description and classification will be submitted to  
the Union for approval, and the occupational hourly wage rate for the  
job class to which the job is thus assigned shall apply.  
(3) If the Company and the Union are unable to agree upon the  
description and classification, the Company shall install the proposed  
classification, and the occupational hourly wage rate for the job class to  
which the job is thus assigned shall apply. The employee or employees  
affected or the Union may at any time within 30 days file a grievance in  
Stage 2 of the grievance procedure, alleging that the job is improperly  
classified under the job description and classification provisions of the  
revised Manual, Such grievance shali be processed under the grievance  
and arbitration procedures of this Agreement and settled in accordance  
with the job description and classification provisions of the revised  
Manual, If the grievance is submitted to the arbitration procedure,  
the decision shall be effective as of the date when the new job was  
established or the change or changes installed but in no event earlier  
than 30 days prior to the date on which the grievance was filed.  
(4) In the event Management does not develop a new job description  
and classification, the employee or employees affected or the Union  
may, if filed promptly, process a grievance under the grievance and  
arbitration procedures of this Agreement requesting that a job description  
and classification be developed and installed in accordance with the  
provisions of the revised Manual.  
12  
(c) The Company shail not establish more than three rates, “A”, “B",  
and “C” (not including Helpers), in any occupation. it is understood that  
the “C” classification will be for leamers only.  
(d) This Article has no application to incentive rates.  
(e) The parties hereto shall each designate representatives to a joint  
committee to review hourly wage rate and adjustment problems with a  
view to achieving maximum understanding.  
### ARTICLE 6 - PRODUCTION STANDARDS  
{a) The Company shall be responsible for the establishment of  
production standards for incentive work and shall use recognized time-  
study principles and methods. Production standards shall:  
(1) Be established for a specific set of conditions.  
(2) Reflect the production requirements as related to a fair day's  
pay and enable the skilled employee to earn approximately 25%  
above the incentive base rate for his occupation.  
(3) Remain unchanged except when there is a change in product  
design, method, process, equipment, material used, manufacturing  
quality, or to correct clerical or mathematical errors in the computation  
of the standard.  
(4) Be replaced by new standards which shall reflect only the  
change of conditions as stated in (3) above.  
(b) Single or accumulated changes in production standards amounting  
to less than five per cent (5%), except for clerical or mathematical errors,  
shall not be used as a basis for changing production standards but shal!  
be accumulated for anticipated future adjustments.  
(c) Individual delays of one-tenth (1/10) hour or more, due to lack of  
service, mechanical breakdowns, machine changes, or pattern changes,  
will be accumulated by the Company on a daily basis and paid for to  
the nearest one-tenth (1/10) hour increment of time at the occupational  
hourly rate for the occupation. If individual delays are likely to last  
longer than fifteen (15) minutes, the employee may be assigned to  
other work in the occupation at the rate indicated above or to another  
at the above rate or the rate of such occupation, whichever is  
igher.  
13  
(d} When an employee working on incentive work is assigned to  
another occupation, the earnings and allowances for the time on incentive  
work shall first be credited and then the earnings on the assigned work  
for the remainder of the time worked shall be added.  
(e) When an employee working on incentive work is assigned during  
part of a work day to non-incentive work when he otherwise would have  
continued on incentive work in his occupation, he shall be paid for such  
time at 125% of the incentive base rate to which sum wil] be added the  
applicable hourly incentive adder. In all other cases he may be assigned  
to other work in his occupation and paid the applicable occupational  
hourly rate.  
(f) Employees working on incentive work shall be guaranteed the  
occupational hourly rate of their respective occupations in the event of  
failure to meet standard performance.  
(g) Loca) plant conditions agreed to by the Management and the  
Local Union relative to standards and not in conflict with this Article  
shail not be affected by this Article unless changed by mutual agreement  
by these parties.  
(h) If any employee feels that any production standard is not in  
keeping with the principles of this Article, a grievance may be filed in  
Stage | of the grievance procedure.  
(i) The Company does not guarantee to provide any employee with  
incentive work.  
(j) No new incentive plan involving new or additional occupations  
will be instituted, and no existing incentive plan will be terminated  
before discussion and agreement with the Union. This shal! not be  
construed to prevent the Company from adjusting a production standard  
under (a) (3) and (a) (4) of this Article.  
(k) The parties hereto shall each designate representatives to a joint  
committee to review incentive problems, with a view to achieving  
maximum understanding. In addition, the parties hereto shall endeavor  
to implement the proposals generated by the joint labor-management  
Reward and Recognition Team with respect to utilization of a  
Gainsharing Plan or Plans as a replacement for, or as a supplement to,  
incentive plans in the plant. It is understood that the elements of an  
acceptable Gainsharing Plan include (1) provision of an opportunity  
for all production and maintenance employees and plant direct line  
supervisors to share with the Company in the savings made through  
14  
production and quality gains and ‘(2) trust and confidence and a  
willingness to emphasize teamwork and communication.  
### ARTICLE 7 - SHIFT PREMIUM  
Section 1. Premium. The company will pay a premium of $.30 per  
hour worked on the second shift and $.45 per hour worked on the third  
Section 2. Shifts Defined.  
{a) The shift shall be classified as “Regular” or “Irreguiar’’ based  
. upon the scheduled starting time of the shift. If an employee reports late  
this shall not change the classification of the shift.  
(b) “Regular” Shifts shall be identified as follows:  
(1) First shift includes all shifts starting between 5:00 a.m. and  
8:00 a.m., inclusive.  
(2) Second shift includes all shifts starting between 2:00 p.m. and  
4:00 p.m, inclusive.  
(3) Third shift includes al! shifts starting between [0:00 p.m. and  
12 midnight, inclusive.  
(c) Hours worked immediately after the scheduled quitting time of  
these “Regular” 8-hour shifts of work shal] be paid at the shift premium  
applying to the succeeding shift, except that additional continuous hours  
worked on the third shift shall be paid at third shift premium.  
(d) “Irregular” Shifts of work are those resulting from starting times  
other than those described above. These shifts shall be paid a shift  
premium in accordance with the following:  
15  
   
_ + - «= ~  
Chart Showing Application  
* of Shift Premium {Article 7)  
   
(1) For hours worked between 7:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., no shift  
premium.  
(2) For hours worked between 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m., second shift  
premium,  
For hours worked between [1:00 p.m. and 7:00 am., third shift  
premium.  
Section 3. Application.  
Shift premium shall not be included in the calculation of incentive  
earnings, but shall be computed separately. When hours of work are  
paid for at overtime premium, the shift premium for the same hours shall  
be paid at the applicable overtime premium rate.  
16  
   
### ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK  
### Section 1. Work Day and Work Week.  
For the purpose of this Article:  
(a) The term “work day” means the period of 24 consecutive hours  
beginning with the time the employee starts work on such day;  
(b) The term “work week” means the period of 168 consecutive hours  
beginning with the time the employee starts work on the first day of his  
work week;  
(c) The term “scheduled work day” means the period of the work day  
during which an employee is scheduled to work, the balance of the work  
day representing non-scheduled time; and  
(d) The term “scheduled work week” means the total scheduled work  
days for the work week,  
Section 2. Schedule of Working Hours.  
(a) The regular schedule of work shall be eight hours in a work day and  
40 hours in a work week. The daily hours of work shall be consecutive  
except for Junch and rest periods now prevailing in the plant.  
{b) The regular scheduled work week shall consist of five consecutive  
scheduled work days. Except for emergencies or other proper cause the  
Company will avoid scheduling production operations on Saturdays or  
Sundays,  
(c) The Company will post scheduled weekend overtime by 12:00 noon  
each Thursday with the understanding that unforeseen circumstances  
render these schedules subject to change.  
(d) If schedules more agreeable to the parties than those developed  
under the preceding paragraph can be agreed upon locally, the provisions  
of said paragraph shall not apply.  
(e) If overtime days are necessary after the weekly schedule has  
been prepared, the employee shall be given as much advance notice as  
practicable.  
(f) If, due to emergencies or other proper cause, it is necessary to  
17  
disrupt an employee’s schedule by having him report early or work  
extra hours within the established work day or work week, he shall not  
thereby be prevented from working the balance of his regular scheduled  
shift that day or his weekly schedule of days for the purpose of avoiding  
overtime premium.  
Section 3. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as a guarantee by  
the Company of hours of work per day or per week.  
### ARTICLE 9 - REPORTING AND MINIMUM PAY  
(a) An employee who is scheduled to work and is not notified to the  
contrary a reasonable time before his starting time and upon reporting at  
the scheduled time finds no work available on the occupation for which  
he reported shal! be paid an allowance of four hours at the occupational  
hourly cate of such occupation, provided he follows the established  
procedure for clocking in and clocking out and shal] not be prevented  
from so doing.  
(b) An employee who is scheduled to work and begins work  
and is provided with less than four hours of work at his reporting  
occupation, shall be paid for the hours worked plus an allowance equal  
to the unutilized portion of the four-hour minimum multiplied by the  
occupational hourly wage rate of the job for which he reported.  
(c) In either case (a) or (b) the Company may offer the employee  
other work. If he accepts he shal} be paid the occupational hourly rate  
of the occupation for which he was scheduled or notified to report, or the  
occupational hourly rate or the incentive base rate plus the applicable  
hourly incentive adder, whichever applies. of the occupation to which  
he is assigned, whichever is higher.  
(d) The payments provided shall be at straight time or overtime rates,  
and include shift premium, depending upon which applies in accordance  
with this Agreement.  
(e) When strikes, stoppages in connection with labor disputes, acts  
of God, acts of Government, or other causes beyond the control of the  
Company interfere with work being provided, the provisions of this  
Article shall not apply. Such other causes beyond the control of the  
Company shall be subject to the grievance procedure.  
18  
   
### ARTICLE 10 - HOLIDAYS  
Section 1.  
(a) The following days shall be considered holidays:  
New Year’s Day  
Floating Holiday  
Good Friday  
Memorial Day  
Independence Day  
Labor Day  
Thanksgiving Day  
Day after Thanksgiving  
Day before Christmas  
Christmas Day  
Day before New Year’s  
(b) The day to be deemed the holiday is the day that is celebrated by  
the majority of the community in which the plant is located. Where there  
is a conflict between the State and Federal Government as to designated  
holidays the Federal Government designation shali prevail.  
(c) Presidents Day will be considered a personal floating holiday.  
Such day is to be used in the same manner as a day of vacation as  
explained in Article 12, Section 5, (b).  
Section 2.  
(a) An eligible employee (other than a “probationary employee”, Sec.  
5 Article 13), who does not work on any one of these holidays shall be  
paid for eight hours at the applicable straight time occupational hourly  
rate excluding shift premium. This includes these holidays when they  
fall on Saturday.”  
When an employee works on a holiday they will not receive holiday  
pay for hours worked. They will receive instead two and one-half times  
their applicable pay rate for all hours worked on the holiday. If the  
employee works less than eight (8) hours on the holiday they will be  
paid holiday pay (straight time hourly rate) for the difference between  
eight (8) hours and the hours actually worked.  
(b) An eligible employee, for the purposes of this Article, is one who  
meets the conditions:  
19  
(1) He must be actively employed and not in a state of lay-off or  
absence due to work stoppage, military service, or leave of absence.  
If absent due to occupational illness or injury, or non-occupational  
disability and paid benefits under the A&S plan, the employee shall  
be eligible for holiday pay, not exceeding two years.  
_ If absent due to injury and receiving worker’s compensation  
Temporary Total Disability benefits, the employee will receive the  
workman's compensation benefit in lieu of holiday pay.  
(2) He must work his last scheduled day before the holiday and  
his next scheduled day after the holiday unless absent because of  
death in his immediate family (as defined in Article 20, Paragraph  
(¢)).  
Notwithstanding the provisions of (1) and (2) above, an employee  
who in the work week in which the holiday falls works his last scheduled  
day before the holiday and is then laid off prior to the holiday will be  
sligible tor holiday pay providing the other requirements of this Section  
are met  
(c} He shall not be paid for these holidays if the holiday falls on a day  
when the employee is scheduled to work and does not report for work,  
unless he did not report for work because of death in his immediate  
family as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this Section.  
(d) If the employce is entitled to holiday pay in accordance with the  
above, and the holiday falls during the employee’s vacation, he will be  
paid the holiday pay in addition to his vacation allowance, but shall not  
be entitled to time off because of the holiday.  
(e) If because of intermittent operations the holiday falls in a non-  
operating week or a short work week, this shall not be used to deprive the  
employee of holiday pay if he meets the requirements of this Article.  
### ARTICLE - OVERTIME PREMIUM  
### Section 1, Premium.  
(a) Overtime at rate and one-half shall be paid for:  
(1) All hours worked in excess of eight hours in a work day as  
defined in Article 8;  
(2) All hours worked on Saturday;  
20  
(b) Double time shall be paid for al] hours worked on Sunday.  
(c) Two and one-half times the regular rate shall be paid for all hours  
worked on the holidays designated in this Agreement.  
(d) Saturdays, Sundays, and each designated holiday and all work  
days shal! be considered as a twenty-four (24) hour period beginning at  
the employee's regularly scheduled shift start time.  
(ce) For purposes of computing overtime earnings, the rate to be used  
shall be the employee’s occupational hourly rate or incentive base rate  
plus the applicable hourly incentive adder, whichever applies for the  
occupation on which he works during the overtime period, times the  
applicable overtime rate specified in (a), (b) and (c) of this Section.  
(f) Employees who did not receive advanced notice of overtime  
work and who are required to work in excess of two (2) hours overtime  
after working their scheduled work day will receive payment for tunch  
for said day of overtime worked. Lunch payments will be paid in the  
employee's paycheck and identified in a separate field on the paycheck _  
stub.  
-——- —F  
~  
Section 2. Hours Credited.  
For the purpose of determining when overtime at time and one-half  
shall be paid for hours worked in excess of eight hours in a work day,  
the following shall be credited as hours worked:  
(a) All straight time hours actually worked, and all hours worked  
on Saturday, Sunday and holidays;  
(b) All hours in attendance at meetings with plant management  
within the individual's regularly scheduled work day, provided  
such meetings have been agreed upon with plant management;  
(c) All hours spent on Union business during the individual's  
regularly scheduled work day;  
21  
(d) Hours absent from work within the regular eight-hour shift due  
to occupational injury or occupational sickness, including time  
spent in reporting to dispensary for treatment or to outside doctor  
or hospital when facilities are not tocated at the plant;  
(e) Hours absent from work within the regular eight-hour shift  
because of jury service or witness duty, provided the employee  
shows the Company the summons for jury service or subpoena for  
witness duty.  
Section 3. Offsets and Pyramiding.  
Overtime premium for the causes stated in Section 1 of this Article shall  
not be pyramided for any hours worked. If more than eight hours are  
worked on Saturday or on Sunday, only the premium rate provided for  
such days shall be paid for such excess hours. ff a holiday occurs on a  
Saturday, only two and one-half times the regular rate shall be paid for  
hours worked on such holiday.  
### ARTICLE 12 - VACATIONS  
### Section 1. Vacation Eligibility and Allowance.  
(a) All employees with continuous plant service as shown in the  
following table as of the December 31 immediately proceeding the  
vacation year (the vacation year shall begin on January ! each year)  
Shall receive the following vacation and vacation allowance in the  
vacation year:  
of  
Employees  
Total  
Minimum  
Years of Continuous Calendar Vacation  
Plant Service as of Year Pay  
the December 3] Preceding Guarantee  
Immediately No. of the as Provided  
Preceding Weeks Vacation in Paragraph  
Vacaction Year (¢) below  
1 but less than 3 l 2% 32 hour  
3 but less than 10 Z 4% 64 hours  
10 but less than 17 3 6% 96 hours  
17 but less than 25 4 8% 128 hours  
25 or over 5 10% 160 hours  
(b) Continuous service for the purposes of this Article 12 shall be  
calculated in the same manner as the calculation of continuous service  
set forth in Article 13 of this Agreement except that there shall be no  
accumulation of service in excess of the first two years of any continuous  
period of absence on account of layoff or physical disability (except, in  
the case of compensable disability as provided in Section 4(b)5 of said  
Article 13) in the calculation of service for vacation eligibility.  
(c) The Minimum Vacation Pay Guarantee referred to in paragraph  
(a) above shall be applicable only to employees who have received  
earnings in at least thirteen (13) pay periods in the preceding calendar  
year and shal! be computed at the occupational hourly wage rate for the  
last occupation held by the employee in the prior calendar year times  
the applicable number of hours set forth in paragraph (a) above. Either  
the percent of employee's total earings or Minimum Vacation Pay  
Guarantee, whichever is higher, shall be paid to the employee.  
(d) Any period of absence of an employee due to occupational illness  
or injury shall be included in determining the number of pay periods the  
employee worked during such year.  
Section 2. Attaining Additional Service.  
Employees who become eligible for their first week of vacation or  
for an additional week of vacation during the vacation year pursuant to  
the schedule in Section | shall be eligible for vacation pay and time off  
accordingly subject to the terms of this Article. Employees becoming  
eligible for their first week of vacation during their vacation year will be  
eligible for five (5) days off and pay based on their earnings in the prior  
vacation year.  
Section 3. Payment of Vacation Allowance.  
(a) The vacation allowance be payable at the beginning of the  
employee’s vacation period.  
(b) An employee who is terminated after becoming eligible for a  
vacation under Sections 1, 2. or 3, shall not thereby lose any vacation  
allowance which he has eamed.  
Section 4, Vacation Period.  
(a) Employees with two weeks or less of vacation eligibility at the  
beginning of the vacation year may not schedule vacation time off prior  
23  
to the vacation shutdown period or cancellation thereof. Employees  
with more than two weeks vacation eligibility must schedule their  
vacation time off no later than March | of the vacation year. Scheduling  
will be accomplished by posting of a Seniority Roster of all employees  
with more than two (2) weeks of vacation in seniority order along with a  
listing of vacation weeks available for the entire calendar year. The list  
will be posted each year by December 1. Employees wishing a week in  
January or February must schedule by December 31. All other weeks  
off must be scheduled by March 1, Employees will choose their week(s)  
in seniority order. Employees eligible to choose to use vacation on a  
day at a time basis rather than a full week but must declare this prior to  
March 1. Should a full week of scheduled vacation be cancelled by an  
employee during the vacation year, the week will be made available to  
other eligible employees on a first come first served basis. Employees  
becoming eligible for their first week of vacation after the vacation  
shuidown period may schedule the week for any week remaining  
available on the department roster or on a day at a time basis at their  
option. If the plant is shutdown for vacation purposes, such shutdown  
shall occur during June, July or August and a notice of such shutdown  
period shail be given at least thirty (30) days in advance and no later  
than July 15.  
Vacation allotments will be determined by department and by  
occupation.  
(b) Employees with three (3) or more weeks of vacation are  
permitted to take a maximum of five (5) days vacation in one (1) day  
increments, provided they make their request five (5) days in advance.  
Vacation request will be on a first come, first served basis. B&E and  
TEC employees are not affected by restrictions and will be allowed to  
schedule their vacations according to the departmental practice. The  
Company retains the sole right to grant vacations based on it’s ability to  
get the work done in the most efficient and least costly manner, however  
the Company will not cancel an employees previously scheduled full  
week of vacation later than fourteen (14) days prior to the scheduled  
vacation.  
Section 5. Vacations for Those Returning From Military Service,  
(a) Any employee who makes application for and is reinstated in  
accordance with the provisions of Article 13-Seniority, Section 9 to the  
employ of the Company during the term of this Agreement, shal! be  
given a vacation and be paid a vacation allowance for the year in which  
he retums, provided he works in the plant 45 days after he  
24  
   
(b) If his earnings during the year preceding his return were such  
that he did not earn, on the percentage basis a full vacation as provided  
in Sections 1, 2, and 3, whichever applies, he will be paid a vacation  
allowance as follows, based on his seniority service credit as of the date  
of his reinstatement.  
For the vacation covering the year in which the employee returms and  
payable in the vacation year:  
1 year but less than 3 years 40 hours  
3 years but less than 10 years 80 hours  
10 years but less than 7 years 120 hours  
17 years but less than 25 years. 160 hours  
25 years or over 200 hours  
‘The vacation allowance shall be based on the straight time hourly rate  
of the occupation in which he is employed at the time of his vacation.  
(c) Those who return to work prior to the vacation shutdown period  
of the plant shall be paid their vacation allowance at the time of such  
vacation shutdown, or at the time of their termination, if this occurs prior  
to the vacation period; those who retum to work after such vacation  
shutdown period shall be paid their vacation allowance and may be  
given equivalent time off at any time during such calendar year.  
(d) If his earnings during the year in which he returns are such that  
he does not earn a full vacation for the year, as provided in  
Section 1, he will be paid the vacation allowance provided in paragraph  
(b) above, based on his seniority service credit on the anniversary date  
of his reinstatement.  
(e) Those employees who become cligible for the next bracket  
vacation as shown in Section 1, after the anniversary date of their  
reinstatement, shall be paid for the additional hours at the time of such  
completion.  
(f) In no event shali an employee be entitled to both a vacation  
allowance on his earnings and, also, the allowance provided in (b) and  
(d) above.  
### ARTICLE 13 - SENIORITY  
### Section 1. Basis of Seniority.  
25  
(a) It is agreed that in all cases of promotion (except to supervisory.  
technical or clerical jobs), demotion, transfer and increases or decreases  
of forces seniority based on the following shal] govern.  
Length of continuous service and ability to perform the work.  
(b) Temporary work assignments, except as otherwise provided by  
agreement, for any cause other than absenteeism may be made  
by the Company to suit operating requirements not to exceed one day;  
provided, however, that consideration shail be given to the employee  
with the greatest seniority and he shal! be so assigned if practicable. For  
any such assignments beyond this period, seniority shall] govern.  
Section 2. Continuous Service.  
(a) It is understood and agreed that wherever the word “seniority” is  
used in this Section, it refers to length of service and ability to perform  
the work.  
{b) For the purpose of this Article, continuous service shal] be  
designated as continuous service within the plant.  
(c) The term “continuous service” shall mean an employce's total  
elapsed time from date of employment to date of termination and shall  
be calculated in accordance with Section 4 of this Article and shall  
include adjusted continuous service for employees who were employed  
on June I, 199! and who had been credited with prior service as of that  
date.  
(d) When an employee accepts an occupation which comes under the  
jurisdiction of another recognized bargaining unit, all seniority service  
credit which the individual has accumulated is permanently forfeited.  
Section 3. Application of Seniority.  
(a) It is understood and agreed that wherever the word “seniority” is  
used in this Section, it refers to length of service and ability to perform  
the work.  
(b) In the application of seniority within the department in cases of  
promotion, demotions, layoffs, transfer and recall to employment in a  
department, seniority shall govern.  
(c) Permanent vacancies (openings resulting from a quit, retirement  
or expansion of the work force) shall be filled on the basis of plant  
26  
Seniority within the department. An employee is allowed one successful  
bid to a job in the same or a lower pay class each three month period.  
There is no limit to the number of successful bids an employee may  
have to higher paying jobs or from non-incentive to an incentive job.  
A successful bidder wil] be given a reasonable training period not to  
exceed 5 work days.  
(d) An employee may request transfer as a Laborer to any other  
department by signing the Transfer Request Book in the Personnel  
Department. Transfers will be made on the basis of plant seniority and  
will be limited to one per three month period. A transferred employee  
will be given a reasonable training period not to exceed 5 work days.  
Employees who successfully qualify upon transfer will be given  
Seniority within the new department equal to their total plant seniority  
and their seniority in their old department will be canceled.  
{c) Notwithstanding ( c) and (d) above, employees who fail to qualify  
or who disqualify themselves two times within a three month period will  
be returned to their old department and job with no loss of department  
seniority. Such employees will be permitted a third bid within the three  
month period and will be prevented from disqualifying themselves for a  
period of six months.  
(f) In cases of decreases in force or lay-offs, demotions will be in  
reverse order departmental seniority from the higher to the lower jobs.  
Employees whose jobs are being eliminated may bump to any job they  
have pete as a permanent assignment or to any job in the lower four  
pay classes within their department. An employee whose departmental  
seniority is insufficient to retain him in his department may bump into  
any job in the plant which he has previously held or to any job in the  
lower four pay classes to which his seniority entitles him, An employee  
who elects to bump into another department must exercise his right  
immediately upon being notified that his seniority will not hold in his  
regular department, An employee, who bumps into another department  
in accordance with the above, will continue to accrue seniority in his  
prior department and shall be considered to be in the new department on  
the basis of a temporary transfer. A temporarily transferred employee  
will be ranked behind all permanent employees in the department for the  
purposes of promotion and overtime assignments (except in cases of “if  
the job works-the man works”),  
If no employee desires a particular promotion or overtime assignment  
the least senior qualified permanent department employee must accept  
the assignment.  
27  
(g) Recalls from lay-off or temporary transfer will be made in order  
of departmental seniority from the lower to the higher jobs. Any  
vacancies remaining after all employees with departmental seniority are  
recalled will be offered to employees who have requested transfer to that  
department before new employees are hired.  
(h)Temporary work assignments resulting from absence of any  
cause, of 30 days or less may be made by management to suit operating  
requirements; provided, however, that consideration shall be given to  
the employee with the greatest seniority, and he/she shall be so assigned  
if practicable.  
(i) Temporary vacancies of over 30 consecutive work days resulting  
from any cause shall be filled on the basis of plant seniority within  
the department from among qualified employees who have signed the  
“Occupational Request Register” within the department. If no employee  
has requested temporary assignment to the vacancy, it shall be filled in  
accordance with paragraph (g) above.  
Section 4. Calculation of Continuous Service and Termination of  
Seniority Rights.  
(a) Continuous service shall be calculated from date of first  
employment or reemployment following a break in continuous service  
in accordance with the following provisions; provided, however, that the  
effective date of employment prior to the date of this Agreement shall  
be the date of first employment or reemployment after any event which  
constituted a break in service under the practices in effect at the time the  
break occurred.  
(b) There shall be no deduction for any time lost which does not  
constitute a break in continuous service, except as specified in 5,  
below.  
The seniority service credit of an employee shall be canceled upon  
termination of his employment by the Company due to any one of the  
following causes:  
1. Resignation or quit.  
2. Being absent for five consecutive scheduled days without  
notice.  
3, Being absent for five consecutive scheduled days without  
28  
satisfactory reason for being absent.  
4, Discharge for proper cause.  
5, An employee is absent due to layoff or physical disability for  
more than two years except that, subject to the provisions of Section  
6 of this Article, he shall continue to accumulate continuous service  
during such absence for two years and for an additional period  
equal to (1) three years, or (2) the excess, if any, of his tength  
of continuous service at the commencement of such absence over  
two years, whichever is less. Any accumulation in excess of two  
years during such absence shall be counted, however, only for the  
purposes of this Article 13 and shall not be counted for any other  
purpose under this or any other agreement between the Company  
and the International Union or local union. In order to avoid a  
break in service after an absence of two years, the employee must  
give the Company annual written notice that he intends to retum  
to employment when called, if the Company at least 30 days prior  
thereto has mailed him a notice at his last address on the Company  
records that he must file such notice.  
6. In the event of permanent shutdown of plant, department,  
or substantial portion thereof, an employee with ten (10) years  
continuous service on or before 10/1/07 will continue as an  
employee of the Company for the duration of this collective  
bargaining agreement.  
7. Failure to return to work from layoff within one week after  
certified mail notice by the Company to the last known  
address, except as otherwise may be provided by agreement  
between the Union and the Company.  
(c) An employee transferred to another recognized bargaining unit in  
the plant shail lose all seniority service credit accumulated under this  
Agreement.  
Section 5. Probationary Employees.  
(a) New employees and those hired after loss of seniority, having  
less than 90 actual days of work in a period of employment with the  
Company are probationary employees and entitled to no seniority rights.  
If such employee is continued in employment after such 90 days of  
work, his seniority service shall date from the beginning of such period  
of employment.  
29  
(b) A probationary employee may be terminated at any time at the  
discretion of the Company, and such termination shall not be subject to  
the Grievance and Discharge procedures. The Union may file grievances  
on their own behalf as regards rates of pay or working conditions in  
connection with probationary employees. There shall be no obligation  
on the part of the Company to reemploy a probationary employee who  
is discharged, laid off, or who resigns during such 90 day period.  
Section 6. Absence Due to Occupational Disease or Occupational  
Injuries.  
In the event any employee of the Company shall be incapacitated for  
work due to occupational disease or injury, the Company will retum  
him to work when he is physically fit to resume work, provided such  
employee would, under conditions then prevailing, be so employed by  
the Company. Further, the parties agree that restricted duty personne!  
as defined by the Company can be assigned anywhere there is work that  
keeps within their restrictions. Upon returning to work the employee  
will be given credit for the time lost for the purpose of seniority.  
Section 7. Transfers.  
(a) Employees who desire to transfer to another department will be  
provided with an application form on which they will indicate their  
qualifications. The original copy of this form shall be filed with the  
Personnel Manager, and the duplicate retained by the employee.  
(b} Employees are not permitted to have on file an application for more  
than two separate departments at one time. When a vacancy occurs and  
employees are not available in the department, the vacancy will be filled  
from the list of applicants provided any are qualified. First consideration  
will be given to the applicant with the greatest plant seniority and the  
ability to perform the work. The applicant will be afforded a reasonable  
trial period. A transferring employee may be held on his or her job until  
a qualified replacement is available, but in any event no longer than 60  
working days provided that if the person being trained to replace the  
transferring employee quits, transfers, is disqualified, etc. prior to the  
transferring employee being transferred, the period of time held on job  
may be extended an additional 30 working days. This requirement does  
not supersede periods longer than 60 days specified in this Agreement.  
This language becomes applicable effective November |, 2005.  
(c) Employees hired into the Chipper classification after October J,  
30  
1995 will be required to remain on the Chipper job for a period of not  
less than 6 months before being permitted to move to another position.  
(d) Employees who are employed under the provisions of Article 23,  
Section 8 at another plant of the Company shall be credited with their  
accrued continuous service at the plant from which they were transferred  
for purposes of the Pension Comprehensive Medical Program, SUB Plan  
and for Vacations. Continuous service for all other purposes shall begin  
as of the effective date of the transfer to the new plant. The provisions  
of Article 13, Section 5, Probationary Employees, shall not apply to  
these employees.  
Section 8, Leave of Absence.  
(a) Upon request of the International Union, a leave of absence not to  
exceed a period of two years shall be granted to at least one member of  
the focal Union for the purpose of working for the Union. Such leave  
Shall not constitute a break in the employee's continuous service and the  
time will be credited.  
{(b) A leave of absence may be granted by the Company to any  
employee for a period not in excess of one year. All requests for a  
leave of absence shall be made in writing on a form to be provided  
by the Company. The Company shall promptly notify the focal Union  
in writing on a copy of the form of the granting of all such leaves of  
absence or the failure to grant a leave of absence.  
(c) The Company shall provide leaves of absence to eligible employees  
in accordance with The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993. Family  
Medical Leave Act time shail run concurrently with other forms of paid  
leave time excluding vacation and such time does not extend the 12  
week Family Medica] Leave Act period.  
(d) If an employce accepts employment with another company  
during a leave of absence granted or provided pursuant to this Section 8  
without written permission from the Company, their employment with  
the Company shail be terminated as having quit without notice as of the  
date of such  
Section 9. Military Service.  
(a) The Company will comply with the provisions of the laws related  
to the reemployment of Veterans of the Armed Services of the United  
States.  
31.  
(b) An employee with one or more years of continuous service who  
is required to attend an encampment of the Reserve of the Armed  
Forces or the National Guard shall be paid for a period not to exceed  
two weeks in any calendar year, the difference between the amount  
paid by the Government (not including travel, subsistence and quarters  
altowance) and the amount calculated by the Company in accordance  
with the following formula. Such pay shall be based on the number  
of days such employee would have worked had he not been attending  
such encampment during such two weeks (plus any holiday in such two  
weeks which he would not have worked), but not more than six such  
days of work in each week) and the pay for each such day shall be eight  
(8) times his straight time average hourly earings (including applicable  
incentive earnings but excluding shift differential and Sunday and  
overtime premiums) during the last payroll period worked prior to the  
encampment. If the period of such encampment exceeds two weeks in  
any calendar year, the period on which such pay shali be based shall be  
the first two weeks he would have worked during such period.  
Section 10. Supervisory and Technical Employees, Union Officers  
and Union Committeemen.  
(a) The Union recognizes the importance of the Company having  
available a supervisory and technica! staff, and the Company recognizes  
the importance of the Union having available certain local Union officers  
and committeemen familiar with plant conditions.  
(b) The Company agrees to limit the length of time an employee can  
remain in a Temporary Foreman(s) position to a maximum of 6 months  
during any contract year except in cases of extenuating circumstances.  
(c) A supervisory or technical employce will be credited with service  
in such position up to a maximum of one (1) year seniority service credit  
during any continuous periods on a supervisory or technical position, this  
service being credited to the department from which he was promoted.  
Application of this paragraph applies to any promotion to a supervisory  
or technical position of a- bargaining unit employee occurring after  
October |, 1999; promotions prior to October |, 1999 will be governed  
by the previous agreement.  
(d) When the Company decides that the work force in any department  
is to be reduced, the local Union President, Grievance Committee  
Chairman, Committeemen, shal!, if the reduction in force continues to  
the point at which they would otherwise be laid off, be retained at work  
32  
and for such hours per week as may be scheduled in the department in  
which he is employed, provided he can perform the work of the job to  
which he must be demoted. The intent of this provision is to retain in  
active employment these officers and committeemen for the purpose of  
continuity in the administration of the labor agreement in the interest of  
employees so long as a work force is at work; provided that no officer  
or committeeman shal] be retained in employment unless work which  
he can perform is available to him in the department in which he is  
working.  
Section 11. Discontinuance or Establishment of a Department.  
In the event of the permanent discontinuance of a department, or  
the establishment of a new department, the Company and the Union  
shall work out a satisfactory solution to the problem, itrespective of the  
departmental seniority application now existing in the Plant.  
Section 12. Seniority Service Records.  
An individual seniority service record for each employee shall be  
maintained showing his length of service computed in accordance with  
Section 2 of this Article. The Company agrees to furnish the Union  
within 30 days after December 31 of each year, a list showing as of such  
date the seniority service of all employees covered by this Agreement,  
and upon request will furnish one additional listing per year.  
Section 13. Supervisory Trainees.  
The company, at its discretion, may assign Supervisory Trainees on  
any occupation during any period of time when another employee is on  
the job. In the application of the above, it is understood that no senior  
employee shall be displaced or suffer the loss of any of his rights under  
this Agreement.  
Section 14, Permanent Partial Disability.  
Notwithstanding Sections 2 and 3 of this Article to the contrary, an  
employee (other than “probationary”, Art. 13, Sect. 5), not eligible for  
an immediate unreduced pension, who is permanently partially disabled  
because of a non-occupational or occupational illness or injury and  
can no longer perform, with reasonable accommodation the essential  
functions of his permanently assigned job will be permitted to exercise  
his seniority to bump the least senior employee in the plant permanently  
assigned to a job he has the ability to perforin, with or without reasonable  
33  
accommodation, in accordance with the following:  
(a) To qualify, the employee must present medical certification  
attesting to the permanence and limitations of the disability that is  
acceptable to both the Company and the Union.  
(b) A joint meeting between Company and Union representatives and  
the disabled employee will be held to determine what job, if any, is  
available to him in accordance with his seniority and limitations.  
(c) An employee may exercise his right to bump under this provision  
only once for the same disability, except in the case where the disabled  
employee is bumped by another disabled employee. In that case,  
the employee being bumped may again bump under this provision.  
Thereafter Sections 2 and 3 of this Article govern. Declining to bump  
under this provision will be considered the same as having bumped.  
(d) An employee bumped under this provision will in turn bump in  
accordance with Sections 2 and 3 of this Article, except as set out in (c)  
above.  
(e) It is understood that the provisions of this Section shall comply  
with any changes in applicable Federal or State Law.  
### ARTICLE 14 - UNION COMMITTEEMEN  
(a} The number of Union committeemen and the departments they  
are to represent shall be agreed upon locally by the Union and the  
Company based on the size of the plant and the number of employees  
but not to exceed 15 committeemen. The Union shall designate the  
committeemen, in writing, to the Company,  
(b) The Union may appoint stewards, designated in writing, to  
the Company, to handie disputes which arise in the department or  
departments they represent. The number of stewards shall be agreed  
upon locally by the Union and the Company but not to exceed one  
steward to 25 employees.  
(c) The committeemen and stewards, with the permission of their  
immediate foreman, will be afforded time off, without pay, to transact  
Union business. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.  
(d) Committeemen and stewards when not engaged in Union  
34  
a  
business will be governed by the same working conditions as ail other  
employees.  
(e) The local Union President, at his option, will be recognized  
as an ex-officio member of ali Union committees in meetings with  
management.  
(f) In the event that it is necessary for any duly authorized Officer,  
Committeeman or International Representative currently representing  
the Granite City employees, to come into the plant during hours other  
than the normal shift hours, the Company will not unreasonably deny  
the request for access to the plant for said Officer, Committeeman, or  
International Representative of the Union so long as the request is made  
of the Personnel Manager far enough in advance so that appropriate  
arrangements can be made for the visit.  
### ARTICLE 15 - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES  
### Section 1. Definition of Grievances.  
A grievance is hereby defined to be any dispute or controversy  
between the parties to this Agreement, or between the Company and  
any employee covered by this Agreement, with respect to matters  
arising out of circumstances and conditions occurring subsequent to the  
date of this Agreement which is not settled by discussion between the  
employee (who may be accompanied by his Union Representative) and  
his immediate supervisor.  
Section 2. Grievances between the Union and the Company.  
Any dispute or controversy between the Union and the Company  
involving the interpretation or application of any of the terms or  
provisions of this Agreement shal! be adjusted in accordance with the  
grievance procedure set forth in this Article. Initial consideration of such  
grievances shall be heard in Stage 1 in of the grievance procedure.  
Section 3. Medical Program Grievances.  
(a) If any difference shall arise between the Company and any  
as to the benefits payable to him pursuant to the Group Medical  
Program because his claim was denied in whole or in part, or between  
the Company and the Union as to the interpretation or application of,  
and such difference is not resolved by discussion, it shall. if presented in  
writing, become a Medical Program grievance.  
35  
   
(6) Medical Program grievance must, in order to be considered, be  
presented in writing within 30 days after the action giving rise to such  
difference. Notwithstanding the first sentence, a grievance relating to  
the Group Medical Program must be presented within thirty (30) days  
after the earliest date on which the grievant knew or reasonably should  
have known of the action on which it is based. Medical Program  
Grievances shall first be heard in stage 2 of the grievance procedure. At  
each stage of the grievance procedure, with respect to Medical Program  
grievance, the Company shal] prepare minutes of the meeting which  
shall include statements of the parties positions and documentation, the  
Company representative shall sign the minutes and give a copy to the  
local representative within 10 days after the discussion is held. The local  
representative shall sign the minutes as agreed to or if the representative  
of the local Union shall disagree with the accuracy of the minutes as  
prepared by the Company, shall set forth and sign his reasons for such  
disagreement. If the grievance is not settled at Stage two, the time limits  
to advance the grievance to the Stage three shall be 10 days after receipt  
of the minutes and to Stage four shall be 20 days after receipt of the  
minutes.  
Section 4. Grievance Rules.  
(a) In any stage of the grievance procedure outlined herein, either  
party may produce persons who, being familiar with the facts involved,  
may aid in a solution of the grievance. However, these persons so  
produced will! be heard solely as witnesses; and the discussion and final  
determination of the issues of the grievance shall rest upon the person or  
persons delegated to handle the grievance in its then current stage.  
(b) Suitable identifying and numbering systems for grievances shall  
. be adopted by mutual agreement.  
(c) Awards or settlements of grievances shall in no case be made  
retroactive more than three weeks prior to the date on which the grievance  
was first presented in its initial stage of the grievance procedure, except  
as provided in Articles 5 and 16.  
Monetary portions of the grievance award shal! be paid to the  
employee within twenty-one (21) calendar days from the decision  
rendered by the Company or the Arbitrator.  
(d) [tis the purpose of this Section to provide a procedure for prompt,  
equitable adjustment of alleged grievances. Failure to file alleged  
grievances promptly on the occurrence thereof shall be deemed to be  
inconsistent with the purpose and intent of this Agreement.  
36  
Section 5. Grievance Procedure.  
Grievances shall be adjusted in accordance with the following procedure:  
Grievances shall be reduced to writing by the employee or his Union  
Representative on forms provided by the Company. The forms will  
be dated and must be signed by the employee or employees affected  
and the Union Representative. Copies of the form shall be delivered  
to the Superintendent of the department. Delivery of the forms to the  
Superintendent will constitute notice of the grievance in Stage 1.  
Stage 1.  
(a) Initial consideration of a grievance, except as otherwise specifically  
provided in Articles S and 16 shall be between the Superintendent  
or his representative and the Committeeman of the department in  
which the grievance originated, The aggrieved employee, his Union  
Representative and his immediate supervisor shall have the right to be  
present and be heard.  
(6) The Superintendent or his representative will enter his disposition  
of the grievance in the space provided for such purpose on the grievance  
form and will date and sign the copies.  
(c) The Committeeman will sign as to his agreement or disagreement  
to the Superintendent’s disposition.  
(d) Any grievance not acted upon in this stage within five work days  
following the date of notification to the Superintendent shall, unless  
the time for disposition be extended by mutual consent of the parties  
involved in this stage, automatically become a Stage 2 grievance.  
(¢) If the Committeeman is in disagreement with the Superintendent's  
disposition, the Company shall, within five work days following  
conclusion of proceedings in Stage 1, notify the Chairman of the Union  
Adjustment Committee in writing of the date and time the grievance will  
be heard in Stage 2. If the Union Adjustment Committee is not notified  
within five work days the grievance shall automatically become a Stage  
3 grievance.  
Stage 2.  
(a) An Adjustment Committee consisting of up to three representatives  
of the Union and up to three representative of the Company shall be  
37  
appointed to hear and decide the disposition of the grievance in this  
stage.  
(b) It shall be the duty of this Adjustment Committee to fully  
investigate the gnevance and if necessary to hear as witnesses individuals  
whose knowledge of the facts of the case will be beneficial to the final  
disposition. However, final discussion concerning the disposition  
thereof will be held solely by the Adjustment Committee,  
(c) Information concerming the agreement or disagreement in this  
stage shall be inserted on the grievance form and shall be dated and  
signed by each of the members of the Adjustment Committee.  
(d) Any grievance not settled in this stage within five (5) work days  
following date of written notice of readiness to proceed by the Company  
shall, unless the time for disposition be extended by mutual consent of  
such representatives involved in this stage, automatically become a  
Stage 3 grievance.  
(e) If a grievance is not satisfactorily settled in Stage 2, the Company  
shall, within five work days following conclusion of the proceedings in  
Stage 2, notify the District Office of the Union in writing of the date and  
time the grievance will be heard in Stage 3. If the Union is not notified  
within five work days the grievance shall automatically become a Stage  
4 grievance.  
Stage 3,  
(a) This stage shall be between the District Director of the Union (or  
a Staff Representative designated by him) and the Plant Manager (or his  
designated representative). In the case of a Medical Program Grievance  
this stage shall be between the District Director of the Union (or a Staff  
Representative designated by him) and the Director Human Resources  
(or his designated representative). Final discussion conceming the  
disposition thereof will be held solely by the representatives designated  
above.  
(b) Information concerning the agreement or disagreement in this  
stage shall be inserted on each copy of the grievance form and shall be  
Signed and dated by both parties.  
(c) Any grievance not settled in this stage within five (5) work days  
foliowing date of written notice of readiness to proceed by the Company  
38  
shall, unless the time for disposition be extended by mutual consent of  
such representatives involved in this stage, automatically become a  
Stage 4 grievance.  
Stage 4.  
(a) Grievances not settled in Stage 3 shall be submitted to arbitration.  
The parties shall, within 30 days following the final Stage 3 meeting,  
appoint by mutual agreement an impartial arbitrator to hear and  
determine the grievance.  
(b) In case the parties are unable within such 30 day period to agree  
upon an arbitrator, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall  
be requested to submit five names of possible arbitrators.  
(c) Within five days after receipt of the panel of arbitrators, the parties  
shall meet to select the arbitrator. The parties shal}, by concurrent written  
baliot, each strike two names from the panel. If this leaves three names  
on the panel, the parties shall, by concurrent written baliot, each strike  
one additional name from the panel. When only two names remain,  
the parties shall, by concurrent written baliot, each strike one additional  
name from the panel. If the last ballot eliminates both remaining names,  
the parties shall choose between these two by lot. The expense and  
salary incident to the services of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by  
the Union and the Company.  
(d) In the case of grievances arising out of this Agreement, the  
arbitrator shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret, apply,  
or determine compliance with the provisions set forth in this Agreement,  
and shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, detract from, or  
alter the provisions of this Agreement.  
(¢) The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the  
parties.  
Section 6. Interruption or Interference with Production.  
Continuous and uninterrupted operation of the Company’s plant and  
orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the  
Union are the essential considerations of this Agreement and, therefore,  
it is agreed as follows:  
(a) There will be no lockouts and the settlement of al! grievances will  
be made in accordance with this Agreement.  
39  
(6) The Union and its members will not during the term of this  
Agreement cause or take part in any strike, sympathy strike, sit-down,  
stay-in, slow-down or other curtailment or restriction of production and  
the grievance procedure as herein provided shall be complied with.  
(c) If this procedure is not followed and as a result this Section of  
the Agreement is violated on the part of the employee, the Company  
will furnish the District Director of the Union with a list of the names,  
clock card numbers and addresses of considered by it to be  
involved. The Company shall have the right to discipline or suspend  
and later discharge in accordance with Article 16 of this Agreement  
any and all persons taking part in this violation who refuse to resume  
normal work after an appeal has been made by the District Director of  
the Union, or his representative.  
(d) All employees not taking part in the violations, and who are  
prevented from working because of the violations, will be paid their  
occupational hourly wage rate until dismissed from their jobs by an  
appropriate Company representative.  
(¢) If this Section of the Agreement is violated on the part of the  
Company it will be subject to the grievance procedure of this Article  
starting in Stage 2.  
### ARTICLE 16 - DISCHARGE CASES  
(a) In the of its functions and rights as set forth in Article  
2, the Company agrees that an employee (other than a “probationary  
employee”, Article 13, Section 5) shall not be peremptorily discharged,  
but in all instances which the Company concludes may justify discharge,  
he shall first be suspended.  
(b) The Company agrees to notify the local Union President and the  
Chairman of the Grievance Committee of a pre-suspension hearing so  
that they may be in attendance,  
In the event that the local Union President or the of the  
Grievance Committee is not available one of the local Union Officials  
listed below will be notified in the following order on the basis of  
availability in the plant.  
Vice President  
Acting Chairman of the Grievance Committee  
40  
In the event that none of the four designated Union Officials are  
available in the plant, this memorandum does not preclude the Company  
from holding a pre-suspension hearing and subsequently suspending an  
employee for discharge.  
(c) The employee will be given, in writing, at the time of suspension,  
the reason for the suspension and information concerning his further  
rights in this regard under this Agreement. The Chairman of the  
‘~Grievance Committee and the local Union President shall] also receive  
copies of the suspension and reason thereof by the end of the following  
work day, Such suspension shall be for not more than five work days.  
(d) If the employee believes he has been unjustly suspended, he may,  
within five work days, file a grievance which shall first be handled in  
Stage 2 of the grievance procedure.  
(e) If the suspension is held to have been unwarranted, the employee  
shail be returned to employment and receive full compensation for the  
| time lost.  
(f) If the suspension is held to have been warranted, the employee  
may, depending upon the seriousness of the offense or misconduct, (1)  
be returned to work without pay for the time Jost, or (2) be discharged  
from the employ of the Company, effective on the date of suspension.  
### ARTICLE 17 - SAFETY AND HEALTH  
(a) The Company shall] continue to make reasonable provisions for the  
safety and health of its employees during their hours of work. Proper  
heating and ventilating systems will be installed where needed.  
(b) Protective devices, wearing apparel and other equipment necessary  
to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the  
Company where needed in accordance with practices now prevailing in  
the plant. Failure to return such Company property or make acceptable  
accounting shall result in a charge against the employee not to exceed  
cost  
(c) If an unsafe condition exists, changed from the normal hazards  
inherent in the operation, so that the employee is in danger of injury,  
the employee shall notify his foreman of such unsafe condition and  
: the facts related thereto. If existence of such alleged unsafe condition  
Shall be disputed, the President of the Loca! Union at the Plant or his  
designee and the Manager of the Plant or his designee shal! immediately  
41  
investigate such alleged unsafe condition and determine whether it  
exists. If they shall not agree and if the President of the Local Union or  
his designee is of the opinion that such alleged unsafe condition exists,  
the employee shall have the right to present a grievance at Stage 2, Such  
grievance shall be promptly heard and decision reached no later than the  
next regular working day following the Stage 2 hearing.  
Each party shall promptly notify the other party in writing of the  
party’s designated representative, and any changes therein on each of  
the shifts for purposes of this Paragraph.  
(d) The plant shall have a Plant Safety Committee appointed by the  
Company. On the Plant Safety Committee the Company agrees to  
appoint three members of the Union certified in writing to the Company  
by the Union. The President of the local Union is an ex officio member  
of this Committee.  
(e) The Safety Committee shall hold meetings at times determined  
by the Company. Time consumed on Committee work by Committee  
members designated by the Union shall be considered hours worked and  
paid for by the Company. The functions of the Safety Committee shall  
be to advise plant management concerning safety and health matters,  
but not to handle grievances. In the discharge of its function, the Safety  
Committee shall consider and suggest changes in existing practices and  
rules relating to safety and health and recommend new practices and  
rules.  
(f) If because of the installation of new equipment or changed  
production practices the now prevailing safety practice is considered to  
be inadequate, it will be brought to the attention of the Safety Committee  
by the members certified by the Union. If no satisfactory practice is  
established within a reasonable period of time, a grievance may be filed  
in State 2 of the grievance procedure. .  
(g) The Company will fumish the Plant Safety Committee and  
the Union's Workers’ Compensation Representative with monthly  
summaries of lost time accidents at the plant.  
(h) The Company will recognize the Union’s Workers= Compensation  
representative for the purpose of working out problems relating to  
Workers= Compensation.  
(i) It is intended that nothing contained in the foregoing functions of  
the Plant Safety Committee shall result in liability of the International  
42  
Union, Local Union, Union Safety Committee and its officers,  
employees and agents for any work-connected injuries, disabilities or  
diseases which may he incurred by employees.  
### ARTICLE 18 - BULLETIN BOARDS  
Bulletin Boards in the plant will be made available for the  
announcement of elections provided for in the Constitution of the  
United Steelworkers of America; and for the posting of notices of the  
Union relating to meetings, dues, entertainment, health, and safety. The  
Union will not post items beyond those indicated.  
### ARTICLE 19 - FOREMEN  
(a) It is the function of the foremen to direct the workers. They shall  
not do the work of employees covered by this Agreement.  
(b}) Foremen must train and instroct workers, and work performed in  
so doing shall not be in violation of this Agreement.  
(c) The policy of the Company shali be to operate and maintain its  
plant facilities with an adequate work force,  
(d) In cases of accident, absenteeism of workers, for whom  
replacements are not available, or other emergencies for eight hours or  
less, foremen shall have the right to perform work, if necessary.  
### ARTICLE 20 - JURY OR WITNESS DUTY AND FUNERAL  
### LEAVE  
(a) An employee (other than “probationary employee”) who is calfed  
and serves on jury duty or who is subpoenaed and reports as a witness  
shall be paid for the days actually on jury duty or the days actually  
served as a witness on which he otherwise would have worked the  
difference between the amount of pay, if any, received therefore and  
his regular earnings. Regular earnings shal] be eight times his straight  
time occupational hourly rate. Such payment shall be made only if the  
employee {1} gives the Company advance notice of such jury duty call  
or subpoena as a witness, and (2) presents proper evidence of jury duty  
performed or service as a witness and amount paid, if any, for such  
service,  
(b) An employee (other than “probationary employee") who is called  
to appear before a Jury Commission and who responds to such call  
43  
shall be paid for the hecessary time involved which occurred during  
his regular hours of work at his Occupational hourly wage rate upon  
furnishing satisfactory proof of such appearance.  
(c) When death occurs to an employee’s legal spouse, mother, father,  
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son, daughter, brother, sister, grandparents,  
or grandchildren (including stepfather, stepmother, stepchildren,  
stepbrother or stepsister when they have lived with the employee in an  
immediate family relationship), an employee, (other than probationary  
employee) upon request, will be excused and paid for up to three (3)  
consecutive scheduled work days which include the day of the funeral  
provided the employee was scheduled to work on such days and provided  
it is established that the employee attended the funeral. Payment shal]  
be eight times his straight time occupational hourly rate, An employee  
will not receive funeral pay when it duplicates pay received for time  
not worked for any other reason. Time thus paid will not be counted  
as hours worked for purposes of determining overtime or premium pay  
liability.  
### ARTICLE 21 - PRIOR AGREEMENTS  
(2) This Agreement supersedes the Agreement dated October 1,  
1995.  
(b) Unsettled grievances filed or arising from circumstances prior to  
the signing of this Agreement shall be processed under the gnevance  
procedure of this Agreement but shall be settled under the terms of the  
Agreement dated October 1, 1995.  
### ARTICLE 22 - LOCAL WORKING CONDITIONS  
(a) The term “local working conditions” as used herein means specific  
Practices or customs which reflect detailed application of the subject  
matter within the scope of wages, hours of work, or other conditions  
of employment and includes local agreements, written or oral, on such  
matters. It is recognized that it is impracticable to set forth in this  
Agreement all of these working conditions or to state specifically in this  
Agreement which of these matters should be changed or eliminated. The  
following provisions provide general principles and procedures which  
explain the status of these matters and furnish hecessary guideposts for  
the parties hereto and an impartial arbitrator.  
(b) The provisions of this Article are not intended to prevent the  
Company from continuing to make Progress. Any arbitration arising  
44  
hereunder shall be handled on a case by case basis on principles of  
reasonableness and equity.  
{c) It is recognized that an employee does not have the right to have  
a local working condition established, in any given situation where such  
condition has not existed, during the term of this Agreement or to have  
an existing local working condition changed or eliminated, except to the  
extent necessary to require the application of a specific provision of this  
Agreement.  
(d) In no case shall local working conditions be effective to deprive  
any employee of rights under this Agreement. Should any employee  
believe that a local working condition is depriving him of the benefits  
of this Agreement, he shall have recourse to the grievance procedure  
and arbitration, if necessary, to require that the local working condition  
be changed or eliminated to provide the benefits established by this  
Agreement.  
(e) Should there be any loca] working conditions in effect which  
provide benefits that are in excess of or in addition to the benefits  
established by this Agreement they shall remain in effect for the term  
of this Agreernent, except as they are changed or eliminated by mutual  
agreement or in accordance with paragraph (f) below.  
(f) The Company shall have the right to change or eliminate any local  
working condition if, as the result of action taken by management under  
Article 2-Management, the basis for the existence of the local working  
condition is changed or eliminated, thereby making it unnecessary to  
continue such local working condition; provided, however, that when  
such a change or elimination is made by the Company any affected  
employee shall have recourse to the grievance procedure and arbitration,  
if necessary, to have the Company justify its action.  
(g) No local working condition shali hereafter be established or agreed  
to which changes or modifies any of the provisions of this Agreement.  
In the event such a local working condition is established or agreed ta, it  
shall not be enforceable to the extent that it is inconsistent with or goes  
beyond the provisions of the Agreement, except as it is approved by the  
Chief Negotiator of the Union and the Director Human Resources of the  
Company.  
(h) The Company will provide copies of written local agreements to  
the Union Officers, Committeemen and Stewards. The company will  
‘45  
also post notices concerning local seniority agreements on a separate  
bulletin board.  
### ARTICLE 23 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE  
### Section 1. Conditions of Allowance.  
(a) When in the sole judgment of the Company it decides to close  
permanently the plant, or discontinue permanently a department or a  
substantial portion thereof and terminate the employment of individuals  
thereof, an employee who is not offered other employment at the  
plant either pursuant to the provisions of Article 13-Seniority of this  
Agreement or otherwise and whose employment is terminated shall be  
entitled to a severance allowance subject to the following provisions.  
(b) Before the Company shall finally decide to close permanently the  
plant or discontinue permanently a department of the plant it shall give  
the Union advance written notification of its intention. Such notification  
shall be given at least 30 days prior to the Proposed closure date, and the  
Company will thereafter meet with appropriate Union representatives  
in order to provide them with an opportunity to discuss the Company's  
proposed course of action. Upon conclusion of such meetings, the  
Company shall advise the Union of its final decision. The final  
closure decision shall be the exclusive function of the Company. This  
notification provision shall not be interpreted to offset the Company’s  
right to lay off or in any other way reduce or increase the working force  
in accordance with its presently existing rights as set forth in Article 2  
_ of this Agreement.  
Section 2. Eligibility.  
To be eligible an employee:  
(a) Must be actively employed and not in a state of lay-off (,) except  
as provided in Section 6; absence due to work stoppage (;) military  
service or leave of absence (;) and shall have three or more years of  
continuous service as computed in accordance with Article 13-Seniority  
of this Agreement.  
(b) Shall not be entitled under Article 13-Seniority to a job in another  
part of the plant whether he accepts or rejects the transfer.  
Section 3, Scale of Allowance.  
An eligible employee shall receive severance allowance based on the  
following weeks for his corresponding continuous plant service:  
Weeks of  
Severance  
Continuous Plant Service  
3 years but less than 5 years 4  
5 years but less than 7 years 6  
7 years but less than 10 years 7  
10 years or over 8  
Section 4. Calculation and Payment of Allowance.  
A week's severance allowance shall be calculated at 40 hours multiplied  
by the employee’s straight-time hourly earnings and shall be paid in a  
lump sum at the time of termination. The term “straight-time hourly  
earings” means the employee's earings, exclusive of Saturday, Sunday  
and overtime premiums and suggestion awards, for all hours worked by  
him during the first three of the last six months, or equivalent payroll  
riods, in which he shall have worked next preceding his severance  
divided by such hours worked.  
Section 5. Non-Duplication of Allowance.  
Severance allowance shall not be duplicated for the same severance,  
whether the other obligation arises by reason of contract, law or  
otherwise. In the case of an individual entitled or becoming entitled to  
any discharge, liquidation, severance or dismissal allowance or payment  
of similar kind by reason of any law of the United Stated of America or  
any of the states, districts or territories thereof subject to its jurisdiction,  
the total amount of such payments shall be deducted from the severance  
allowance to which the individua! may be entitled under this Article,  
or any payment made by the Company under this Article may be  
offset against such payments. Statutory unemployment compensation  
payments shall be excluded from the non-duplication provision of this  
paragraph.  
Section 6. Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Deduction.  
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement an employee  
who is on layoff and receiving Supplemental Unemployment Benefits  
from the Company on the date of the conditions specified in Section  
47  
{ of this Article, whose employment is terminated because of such  
conditions and who is otherwise cligible for severance pay under the  
provisions of this Article shail be entitled to a severance allowance  
in accordance with the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 hereof fess any  
Supplemental Unemployment Benefits received during his layoff period  
which was existing on the date of the permanent closing of the plant or  
the permanent discontinuance of the department or substantial portion  
thereof.  
Section 7,  
The continuous service of an employee entitled to severance  
allowance under the provisions of this Article shall be canceled upon  
payment of the severance allowance.  
Section 8.  
An employee who meets the conditions and eligibility requirements of  
Sections | and 2 of this Article may accept the severance allowance  
provided, or may apply within 30 days of his last day worked for  
employment at another plant of the Company (in cases of a plant  
Shutdown) or may apply within 30 days of his last day worked for  
employment in a continuing department or at another plant of the  
Company (in cases of the shutdown of a department or substantial  
portion thereof). If such application for other employment is made, the  
employee will be placed in laid-off status for a Period not to exceed two  
years from date of the employee’s last day worked. During the period  
an employee is in such laid-off status the Company may, at its option,  
offer him other work in accordance with his application. The employee  
shall have the option of refusing such offer without jeopardizing his  
laid-off status, Upon termination of his laid-off Status, such employee  
shall be paid the severance allowance to which he is entitled subject to  
the provisions of Sections 5 and 6 of this Article.  
Section 9. Reductions for Retiree Health and Pension Benefits.  
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in the case of  
an employee who is eligible for and receives a pension under the terms  
and conditions of the pension Agreement, the amount of the severance  
allowance determined under Section 3 shall be reduced by the sum of (a)  
and (b) below:  
(a) The value of any retiree health benefits provided to the employee  
under the group health plan maintained by the Company; provided that  
48  
   
at the time the severance allowance first becomes otherwise payable to  
the employee:  
(1) the employee is eligible for an immediate (i.e., not a deferred)  
pension from the Pension Agreement; and  
(2} as of the date of the event that gives rise to the payment of  
the severance allowance, the retiree heaith benefits comply with  
the minimum standards prescribed under Section 4(1}(2)(D) of the  
Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA).  
For the purposes of this subparagraph (a), the value of such retiree  
health benefits shal] be determined in accordance with ADEA Sections  
4(1)(2)(D) and 4(1)(2)(E). In addition, where an employee is eligible  
for an immediate pension, but that pension is subject to an actuarial  
reduction in the pension benefits.  
(>) The value of any supplemental pension benefits made available  
under Sections 3.4 and 3.5 of the Pension Agreement to the employee,  
but only if the employee is then eligible to receive an immediate pension  
benefit which is not reduced because of its commencement prior to the  
employee's attainment of age 65,  
No reductions under this Section 6 shal! be applied with respect to an  
employee who is eligible for and receives a pension under the terms and  
conditions of Sections 2.8 and 3.10(c} of the Pension Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 24 - REPLACEMENT OF SUB PLAN WITH 401K  
Effective 10/01/04 the SUB Plan will be terminated. The funds currently  
in the trust and reserved by the Company shall be distributed equitably  
to employees. The trust fund will be terminated upon distribution of  
the funds.  
The Company will implement 401(K) contributions for employees.  
Employees will be eligible to receive contributions to the the  
first full pay period after the pay period in which they completed one  
year of service. Upon eligibility the Company will contribute 10 cents  
per hour worked to the employees’ individual account. Contributions  
for eligible employees shall commence effective with the first full pay  
period after January 1, 2005.  
If an with two or more years of service who is available for  
work (not on leave, workers compensation, absent, disciplinary leave,  
49  
etc.) does not receive the opportunity for 32 hours of pay in a work  
week when any hours are worked by the employee, the Company will  
pay the difference between the hours the employee was paid or had the  
opportunity to be paid and 32 hours, The pay rate per hour will be  
at the applicable straight time occupational hourly rate excluding shift  
premium.  
This provision does not require the Company to schedule employees  
to work. In the event no work for an employee is scheduled  
for a week(s) and/or no hours are worked during a week(s) the 32 hours  
provision does not apply.  
Note: Inability to work due to acts of god, work stoppages or slow  
downs or events beyond the Company’s control will not trigger the 32  
hour requirement.  
### ARTICLE 25 - PENSION PLAN, GROUP INSURANCE AND  
### MEDICAL PROGRAM  
The Agreement between the parties with respect to Pensions shall be  
as Set forth in the Agreement with respect thereto effective October [,  
2004.  
The Agreement between the parties with respect to Insurance and the  
Medical Program effective October [, 2004 shall be as set forth in the  
Summary Plan Descriptions as Revised January 1, 2005 with respect  
thereto  
and shall remain in effect for the duration of this Labor Agreement.  
All employees hired after October 1, 2004 will be eligible for benefits  
effective the Ist day of the month following the month they complete  
ninety (90) days worked.  
### ARTICLE 26 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT  
Section 1.  
(a) Except as otherwise provided below, this Agreement shall terminate  
at the expiration of 60 days after either party shall give written notice of  
termination to the other party but in any event shal! not terminate earlier  
than 12:01 a.m. on Saturday, September 29, 2007. Any notice given  
prior to July 3!, 2007 shall be deemed to have been given on July 31,  
2007.  
(b) If either party gives such notice it may include therein notice of its  
desire to negotiate with respect to Insurance and the Medical Program,  
50  
Pensions, and Supplemental Unemployment Benefits (existing provisions  
or agreements as to Insurance and the Medical Program, pensions, and  
Supplemental Unemployment Benefits to the contrary notwithstanding),  
and the parties shali meet within 30 days thereafter to negotiate with  
respect to such matters. If the parties shall not agree with respect to such  
matters by the end of 60 days after the giving of such notice, either party  
may thereafter resort to strike or lockout as the case may be in support  
of its position in respect to such matters as well as any other matter in  
dispute (the existing agreements or provisions with respect to Insurance  
and the Medical Program, Pensions, and Supplemental Unemployment  
Benefits to the contrary notwithstanding).  
Section 2.  
Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be given by registered  
mail; be completed by and at the time of mailing: and, if by the Company,  
be addressed to the United Steelworkers of America, Five Gateway  
Center, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222 and if by the Union, to the Company at  
1700 Walnut Street, Granite City, Mlinois 62040.  
### AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES  
by Gary Adams  
Director Human Resources  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this agreement  
to be signed by their duly authorized representative as of the day and  
year first above written.  
  
2 tt t  
Olrectar/ Henan Resources epresentetive  
Jon Schumacher Dave Spailmeyer  
Piant Haneger Qnion Preaident 136}  
kK  
ar Ld of Committee  
Chris Dockery & oe  
Manager, Hazan Regpurces Seccetary  
A. Turner Lenrcy ‘Johnson ,  
Human Reacurces Treasurer  
  
Vice President Lecal 1065  
51  
### APPENDIX I  
### OCCUPATIONAL HOURLY WAGE RATES  
### FOR NON-INCENTIVE WORK (a)  
Job  
Class 10/1/04 10/0/05 10/1/06  
0} 14.49 14.99 15.49  
02 14.49 14.99 15.49  
03 14.63 15.13 15.63  
04 14.78 15.28 15.78  
05 14.93 15.43 15,93  
06 15.07 15.57 16.07  
07 15.22 15.72 16.22  
08 15.37 15.87 16.37  
09 15.51 16.0] 16.5]  
10 15.66 16,66 16.66  
1} 15.81 16.3] 16.8]  
12 15.96 16.46 16.96  
13 16.80 16.60 17.10  
14 16.25 16.75 17.25  
15 16.40 16.99 17.40  
16 16.54 17.04 17.54  
17 16.69 17.19 17.69  
18 16.84 17,34 17.84  
19 16.98 17.48 17.98  
20 17.43 17.63 17.13  
2) 17.28 17.78 18.28  
(a) The “B” and “C” rates are two and four job classes respectively,  
below the evaluated job class.  
(b) Aninitial training rate, agreed to by the parties, has been established  
for all new hires.  
52  
   
### APPENDIX IT  
### HOURLY WAGE RATES  
### FOR INCENTIVE WORK (a)  
Job Hourly  
Class 0/104 lO/1/5 {0/1/06 Adder  
01 9.70 10.20 10.76 4.79  
02 9.70 10.20 10.70 4,79  
03 9.82 10.32 10.82 4.81  
04 9,94 10.44 10.94 4.84  
05 10.06 10.56 11.06 4.87  
06 10.18 10.68 11.18 4.89  
07 10.30 10.80 11.30 4,92  
08 10.42 10.92 11.42 4.95  
09 10.53 11.03 11.53 4.98  
id 10.65 11.65 11.65 5.01  
1 {0.77 11.27 11.77 5,04  
12 10.89 11.39 11.89 5.07  
13 11.01] H1.51 12.01 5.09  
14 11,13 11.63 12.13 5.12  
15 11.25 11.75 12,25 5.15  
16 11,37 11.87 12.37 5.17  
17 11.49 11.99 12.49 §.20  
18 11.61 12.11 12.61 5.23  
19 11.72 12.22 12.72 5.26  
20 11.84 12.34 11.84 5.29  
21 11.96 12.46 12.96 §.32  
(a) The “B” and “C” rates are two and four job classes, respectively,  
below the evaluated job class.  
An initial training rate, agreed to by the parties, has been  
established for all new hires.  
### MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDINGS  
No.l  
### HOT WORK  
When castings are produced, it is necessary to perform some  
operations while the castings are above 200 degrees F.  
In view of the fact that additional compensation has been paid in the  
past for this type of work, the Company and the Union agree that the  
following jobs will receive an allowance equal to two (2) job classes:  
‘53  
1. Blast Machine Operator  
2. Blast Machine Heiper  
3. Combination Rougher/Hamumes Operators  
4, Flame Washer  
5. Chainman !st Hot - C&F  
6. Chainman 2nd Hot - C&F  
7. Chainman Ist Pouring Floor  
8. Chainman 2nd Pouring Floor  
9. Heat Treat & Quench — Small Parts  
10, Rough Casting Finisher — Small Parts #1 Floor  
11, Ladleman  
This method of payment if effective October 1, 1999, and cancels all  
previous agreements pertaining to “hot” work.  
No. 2  
Premium Overtime Days  
Overtime premium days of work on the sixth and/or seventh day ‘of  
the week or holidays will be given to the senior employee regularly  
assigned to that particular job during the entire work week. Employees  
on vacation on the work day preceding the overtime assignment(s) will  
not be eligible. However, the Company reserves the right to require the  
employee to report fur such assignment(s) when necessary.  
No. 3  
### INSPECTORS & SAMPLE CASTING CHECKERS  
The “C” level is the entry and training level for these occupations.  
Individuals at this level are expected to develop an understanding of  
the written standards and requirements as well ag the use of our gauges,  
measuring devices, electronic equipment, SPC, work flow and inspection  
practices at all of the locations associated with their occupation within  
the [nspection Department. It is ai this they must take and pass the  
Finishing Standards Course. Advancement is based upon ability and  
proficiency as recommended by the foreman and with approval by the  
Manager of Quality Assurance.  
No.4  
### OCCUPATIONAL REQUEST PROCEDURE  
In order to provide a uniform method for employees to make known  
to the Company those jobs they are interested in for promotion within  
their respective departments, the following procedure will be followed.  
54  
The Human Resources Department will] maintain a computer listing,  
by department and job title, of afl jobs within the plant. In order to  
receive consideration on a specific job, an employee will complete an  
Occupational Request Form and turn it in to any Human Resources  
Department employee. The Human Resources Department employee  
will sign and date the Request and the employee will retain one copy of  
the verified form for his records.  
When an opening occurs in a job in the employee’s department, it  
will be awarded to the most senior employee within the department  
who has submitted a request for the job, provided such employee’s  
request was received in the Human Resources Department by 7:00  
a.m, on the Monday proceeding the day the schedule is filled out in the  
department.  
In the event no employee within the department has submitted  
timely request for the opening, the job will be awarded to the most  
senior employee who has signed a Transfer Request for that department  
by 7:00 a.m. on the Monday proceeding the day the schedule is filled out  
in the department.  
If an employce is not working due to occupational or non-occupational  
illness or injury, or is on regular vacaticn and does not return to work  
prior to the date that an employee is awarded the opening, the employee  
first entitled but not available will be given no further consideration,  
until the next permanent opening occurs. However, if the employee first  
entitled but not available returns to work within 30 work days he will be  
entitled to the promotion and the other employee removed with no credit  
being accumulated in his behalf.  
If an employee declines to accept a job for which he has made an  
occupational or departmental transfer request, he shall not be allowed to  
again request consideration for that job or department for a three month  
period,  
It is agreed between the Company and the Union that the only way  
such a system can work properly is to limit those requests to employees  
having a sincere desire for consideration on a job. To do otherwise  
would defeat the purpose of this program. Thus an employee may sign  
for consideration on a maximum of three permanent ‘obs at any given  
time. Both parties pledge their support to this principle.  
The Company further agrees to make a good faith effort to post  
Expansion jobs for employee’s informational purposes only. Failure to  
55  
do so will not result im a grievable offense.  
No. §  
### BLACKSMITH/TOOL TREATER PROGRESSION  
It is recognized by both the Company and the Union that the job  
of Blacksmith/Too! Treater does not lend itself to the established  
apprenticeship program under the existing circumstances and it is,  
therefore, mutually agreed that the following procedure will apply in the  
progression of an employee from Learner status to Journeyman status in  
the job of Blacksmith/Tool Treater.  
Blacksmith/Tool Treater  
1. High school or G.E.D, educational requirement.  
2. Satisfactorily complete trade and craft screening test  
3. Meet physical requirements.  
4. Trainee may be removed from job during probationary period for  
failure to exhibit proper attitude or progress in acquiring needed skill for  
job performance.  
Assignment to this job will be made only as required, not necessarily  
as a continuous assignment. However, time worked will be accumulated  
toward completion of the time required for the respective phases.  
Phase I-Probationary  
(6 months duration)  
The trainee will Jeam through on-the-job performance, the proper  
operation of forges and heat treating furnaces, preparation and usage of  
necessary baths, proper handling and usage of tools and equipment, and  
exposure to all facets of the job.  
At the completion of the probationary period, the trainee must be able  
to read blueprints and make sketches as pertains to angles, lines and  
shapes of forgings and items for heat treating.  
The trainee must exhibit through _ proficiency  
demonstrations that he has acquired adequate skill and knowledge in  
this phase of training to advance.  
Phase  
(12 months training)  
56  
The trainee will apply the skill and knowledge learned in the previous  
phase to learn heat treating, normalizing, forging temperature, methods  
of forging, draw allowances, figuring stock, case hardening, quenching  
and tempering procedures, for various steels. He will learn techniques  
for forging, swaging, drop forging, roll threading, knurling, hardening,  
shaping, piercing bars, rounds and tubing, —-  
The acquisition of skill and knowledge in these areas will be acquired  
through on-the-job performance.  
At the completion of the Intermediate Phase, the trainee will be  
expected to perform all aspects of the Blacksmith/Tool Treater job with  
minimum guidance.  
The trainee must exhibit through on-the-job proficiency  
demonstrations that he bas acquired adequate skill and knowledge in  
this phase of training to advance.  
Phase  
(18 months training)  
The advanced phase of training will concentrate on increasing  
proficiency in the performance of Blacksmith/Tool Treater duties.  
During this phase, the trainee will be expected to increase his technica}  
knowledge of forging and heat treating such as physical properties of  
metals and alloys, function and application of alloys, definitions of  
metallurgical terms, conversion of metals, effect of temperature changes  
on metal, etc.  
At the completion of this phase, the trainee must exhibit through  
on-the-job proficiency demonstration that he has acquired the skill  
and knowledge required of a Journeyman Blacksmith/Too! Treater to  
advance to that classification.  
It is agreed that the job classes to apply in the above mentioned  
training periods are as follows:  
Probationary Job Class 6  
Intermediate Job Class 9  
Advanced Job Class 12  
It is further understood and agreed that the procedure used in the  
: $7  
memorandum does not establish a precedent for future consideration on  
any other job.  
Accelerated Progress  
After an employee has accumulated 100 days of actual work in  
the Probationary Period, he may request to take a demonstration test  
to advance to the Intermediate level. If he successfully passes that  
demonstration, he will be advanced to the Intermediate level. If he  
fails to successfully pass that demonstration, he may apply for a future  
demonstration at the completion of the six-month period.  
After an employee has completed 200 actual days of work in the  
Intermediate level, he may request a demonstration test to progress to  
the advanced stage. If he successfully passes this demonstration, he  
will be moved to the advanced stage. If he fails to successfully pass  
this demonstration, he may apply for a future demonstration at the  
completion of the twelve-month period.  
After an employee has completed 300 days of actual work in the  
Advanced Stage, he may take a demonstration test to determine if he  
meets the Journeyman requirements. If he successfully passes the test,  
he will be advanced to a Journeyman in that particular job. If he fails  
to successfully pass the test, he may take the demonstration test at the  
. completion of the eighteen-month period.  
The parties agree that, when the proficiency demonstrations are given,  
a Union observer will be present.  
It is agreed that assignments to this job will be in conformity with the  
existing Labor Agreement.  
No. 6  
### BRICK REPAIRS - ELECTRIC FURNACE  
It is agreed between the Union and the Company that the following  
work assignments will be made when scheduled or emergency brick  
repairs are made to the electric furnaces:  
Saturday and Sunday Work  
The assignment to Brick Repair work on the premium days of  
Saturday and Sunday wili be in the following sequences:  
58  
A. (1) Employees working during the entire work week as  
a General Maintenance will be given first consideration in  
accordance with their plant seniority. If no General Maintenance  
performed this assignment during the entire week, then employees  
working as an R&M Helper during the entire work week will be  
given consideration in accordance with their plant seniority.  
(2) Employees who hold seniority in the General Maintenance  
Occupation and working another job will be assigned in accordance  
with their plant seniority.  
(3) Employees who hold seniority in the R&M Helper occupation  
and working another job will be assigned in accordance with their  
plant seniority.  
(4) Employees actively working in the Repair Department  
(excluding Pipefitters) will receive consideration for assignment  
as R&M Helper in accordance with their plant seniority.  
(5) Electric Furnace Operators, Electric Fumace Helpers and  
Electric Furnace Third Helpers will receive consideration for  
assignment as R&M Helper in accordance with their plant  
seniority,  
Assignments will be made from the above groups starting with Group  
1 and progressing through Group 4 as required, including employees  
temporarily assigned to those occupations. If there is an insufficient  
number of volunteers, the employee with the lowest plant seniority  
from the four categories stated above, will be required to accept the  
assignment, in ascending order.  
The company reserves the right to require the employee who has been  
working on a specific job related to the electric furnace repair to work  
the overtime on the job where continuity and familiarity with the task  
are essential to the proper and rapid return of the furnace to service.  
Scheduled or Emergency Teardown during Work Week  
A. (1) Available General Maintenance and R&M Helpers actively  
working in that job will be assigned to this emergency work,  
(2) Electric Furnace Operators, Electric Furnace Helpers, or  
Electric Furnace Third Helpers will be assigned to assist the  
General Maintenance or R&:M Helpers as required.  
59  
B. (1) Ifa major emergency repair is required on a shift whei  
General Maintenance or R&M Helpers are working, the Ele  
Furnace Operator, Blectric Furnace Helper and Electric Fur.  
Third Helper may begin the emergency repairs immediately  
R&M Helpers will be calted in to perform the work involved.  
Electric Furnace Operator, Electric Furnace Helper and Ele  
Fumace Third Helper will assist the Mason gang if required.  
No. 7  
### DAILY OVERTIME ASSIGNMENT  
It is agreed that the concept of “if the job works, the emplo  
works” wilt be followed in the assignment of daily overtime. T)  
daily overtime hours worked in a day (before or after the shift) +  
be assigned to those employees working that particular job during  
shift and the day involved in order of their departmental seniority.  
the overtime occurs at the end of the employees’ shift those employ:  
working on that job when the overtime commenced will be assigned  
order of their departmental seniority.  
Should the employee(s) entitled to the overtime work in accordan  
with the above be unable to work because of an emergency or oth  
acceptable reason, then the employee(s) with the greatest department  
seniority qualified to perform the work will be given the opportunity |  
working the overtime. If no employee volunteers to perform the wo!  
the least senior qualified employee(s) must accept the assignment.  
Such an agreement does not dilute or diminish the Company’s right t  
assign overtime work when required,  
No. 8  
### CHIPPER VACANCIES  
The parties recognize the of adding “A” or “B" Chipper:  
whenever Chippers are being added to the C&P Department work force  
Accordingly, the Company will fill permanent vacancies for Chippers ir  
the following sequence:  
(1) on the basis of plant seniority within the C&F Department from  
among qualified “A” Chippers;  
(2) on the basis of plant seniority from among qualified “A”  
Chippers who have signed the Transfer Request Book in Human  
Resources Department, :  
60  
(3) on the basis of plant seniority within the C&F Department  
from among qualified “B” Chippers;  
{4} on the basis of plant seniority from among qualified “B”  
Chippers who have signed the Transfer Request book in the Human  
Resources Department.  
The “C" Chipper is the entry - training level where the employee must  
become proficient at chipping and grinding as well as taking and passing  
the Finishing Standards Course. A chipper “C” will not be promoted  
to a “B” Chipper without first passing the Finishing Standards Test.  
Advancement is based upon ability and seniority as recommended by  
the Foreman and approved by the superintendent.  
Advancement to “A” Chipper is based upon the “B” chipper learning to  
combination chip, working with all of the gauges for both side frames  
and bolsters. The “B” chipper must maintain standard for five (5)  
consecutive attempts on side frames and five (5) consecutive attempts  
on bolsters. The “B” Chipper must be capable of advancing to an “A”  
Chipper within 30 days of combination chipping or return to the bottom  
of the rotation.  
No. 9  
### SCHEDULING AGREEMENT  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 13 of the current Labor  
### Agreement between American Steel Foundries and the United  
Steelworkers of America, Local 1063, the work assignments in each of  
the departments of the Granite City Plant shall be made in accordance  
with the following:  
### A.REGULAR ASSIGNMENTS DURING THE WORK DAY  
1, The jobs and the number of employees assigned to each  
department shail be determined by the Company to suit operating  
requirements, provided, however, that once a job is put in existence,  
it shall not be eliminated during the life of this agreement unless  
a change in operations results in @ discontinuance of a job in  
accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the current Labor  
### Agreement.  
2. All employees shall report to their permanent assigned job in  
their respective departments at the start of cach work day. After  
reporting for work, if there is no work available in an employce’s  
61  
permanent assigned job, there shall be no bumping and the  
Company may assign employees to any job in their department in  
which work is available. In making such assignments where no  
work Is available on the employee’s permanent assigned job, the  
Company shall give consideration to employee requests for work  
assignments to other jobs on the basis of seniority, provided that  
employee has the ability to perform the work. An employee so  
assigned shall be paid the higher of the rate of his or her permanent  
assigned job or the job to which assigned.  
3. During the work day, employees shali not be permitted to  
bump and the Company may assign employees to any job in their  
department to meet production requirements. In making such  
assignments during the work day, ability to perform the work shall  
contro] with respect to assignment from a higher job class to a  
lower job class. With respect to assignments from a lower job  
class to a higher job class, seniority and ability to perform the work  
shall control. An employee so assigned shall be paid the higher of  
the rate of his or her permanent assigned job or the job to which  
assigned,  
### B. OVERTIME WITHIN A WORK DAY  
The principle of “If the job works, the man works” shall prevail.  
### C.WHEN A FULL DEPARTMENT IS NOT SCHEDULED  
### AND ONLY A LIMITED NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONS  
### ARE REQUIRED ON ANY DAY OF THE WEEK (MONDAY  
### THROUGH FRIDAY)  
The jobs in class 5 and above will be filled by the senior employees  
permanently assigned to the jobs within the department, Any vacancies  
not filled shall be filled by following departmental seniority providing  
the employee possesses the ability to perform the work. Employees  
not offered work in accordance with the above, shall be permitted to  
bump into any job in the lower 4 job classes within the department.  
who exercise the option of crossing shifts for assignment in  
accordance with seniority, if such action would otherwise result in the  
payment of overtime premium, the employee shall be paid straight time  
only.  
### D.WHEN A FULL DEPARTMENT IS NOT SCHEDULED  
### AND ONLY A LIMITED NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONS ARE  
### REQUIRED ON THE 6TH OR 7TH DAY  
62  
The jobs will be filled by the senior employees regularly assigned during  
the entire work week to the jobs within the department. Any vacancies  
not filled shall be filled by asking the most senior employee who has  
the ability to perform the work. (The less senior employees who have  
the ability to perform the work shall be required to work to satisfy the  
Company requirements.)  
No. 16  
### SPECIAL TRAINING JOBS  
The jobs of Electric Furnace Operator, Electric Furnace Helper,  
Craneman-Charger, Spectrographic-Chemist Craneman- Heat,  
Automatic Sand Slinger Operator, Ladelman, Mold Closer, Sand Tester,  
EMI Blower Operator, Core Stocker, Gishold Lathe Operator, Drake  
Machine Operator, Carbon Arc Operator, Inspector, Sample Casting  
Checker, Test Puller, Locomotive Engineer, Locomotive Conductor,  
Locomotive Crane Operator, and Test Operator are recognized as jobs  
requiring special training before permanent assignment.  
Vacancies for advance training on these jobs will be filled on the  
basis of plant seniority within the department from among employees  
who have signed a “Special” Training Job Request Book within  
their respective departments for all departments except Inspection,  
Test Engineering, Melted Metals and Chem Lab. Employees of the  
aforementioned departments will sign the “Special” Transfer Request  
Book maintained in the Human Resources Department. An employee  
from any department is eligible to sign this Special Transfer Book and  
assignments will be made in accordance with plant seniority.  
An employee who is a successful bidder on a special training job  
will be assigned to the job on the basis of a temporary transfer and  
will continue to accrue seniority in his regular department during such  
training period and during periods of temporary assignments to fill the  
job because of the absence of the regular operator. The employee will  
be returned to his regular department and job following each period of  
temporary assignment.  
An employee one of the special training jobs must  
upon completion of the initial training period, accept all temporary  
assignments to the job during the next twelve month period and/or  
permanent assignment for a twelve month period, if a permanent vacancy  
occurs, unless his obligation is specifically waived by the Company. An  
employee who fails to honor this obligation will not be permitted to bid  
on any other permanent vacancy during the twelve-month period.  
, 63  
The initial training period mentioned above will not necessarily be  
in continuous time blocks but will be as time permits. The employce’s  
immediate supervisor in the special training department will notify the  
employee when the initial training is completed.  
However, because of the safety sensitive nature of a few of the Special  
training occupations, an employee accepting assignment in accordance  
with this memorandum to one of these jobs will be afforded an initial  
training period of thirty (30) workdays. The Company will endeavor  
to train employees in blocks of five consecutive days at a time where  
practicable. Those jobs are:  
Craneman Charger  
Locomotive Engineer  
Craneman Heat  
Although the employee's obligation upon accepting a special training  
Job is twelve months, an employee may continue in a special training  
Job for an unlimited period of time.  
An employee may have up to three requests at any given time in the  
Special Training Job Request Book and two requests at any given time  
in the Special Transfer Request Book. However, an employee may hold  
a special training job for only one jab at any given time.  
No. 11  
### WELDER VACANCIES  
The Parties recognize the desirability of adding properly trained  
Welders whenever Welders are being added to the C& Department  
work force. Accordingly, the Company will fill permanent vacancies  
for Welders in the following sequence:  
(1) on the basis of plant seniority within the C&F Department  
from among qualified “A” Welders.  
(2) on the basis of plant seniority from among qualified “A”  
Welders who have signed the Transfer Request Book in the  
Personnel Department.  
(3) on the basis of plant seniority from among qualified “B”  
Welders who have signed the Occupation Request Register,  
(4) on the basis of plant seniority from among qualified “B”  
64  
Welders who have signed the Transfer Request Book in the  
Personnel Department.  
(5) by hiring as new employees, individuals who are qualified “B”  
Welders. Employees who wish to be considered for the Welder’s  
occupation must show evidence of certification and a year’s prior  
experience as an Arc Welder elsewhere, or take the SMAW/FCAW  
Welder training course at an approved training center (BAC or St.  
Louts Tech. High School).  
Upon fulfilling the above requirements, the employee will be given  
and must pass the required Welder qualification test in accordance with  
AAR specification M-210, latest issue. Upon passing the test, he/she  
will be allowed to sign the Occupational Request Register and will be  
carried as a “B” Welder.  
When a job opening occurs, the candidate(s) with the greatest length  
of continuous service and the ability to perform the work will be awarded  
the job.  
After being awarded the position, and upon presentation of a receipt  
and certificate of satisfactory completion of the SMAW/FCAW Welder  
training course, the Company will reimburse the employee for the  
training course tuition.  
No, 12  
### JOB DESCRIPTION AND CLASSIFICATION MANUAL  
This 1s to confirm our understanding reached during the 1995 contract  
negotiations that the Union and Company agreed to establish a Joint  
Labor Management Task Force to study and make recommendations  
to change and revise, where appropriate, the American Steel Foundries  
Job Description and Classification Manual as last revised on February  
24, 1965. This Task Force will consist of an equal number of Union and  
Company representatives, the Union representatives to be designated by  
you or your designated representative, and the Company representatives  
to be designated by the undersigned or his designated representative.  
The parties also agree that, to the extent practicable, one representative  
of the Union and one representative of the Company on the Task Force  
will be an industrial engineer or an individual otherwise knowledgeable  
in the description and classification of jobs. This Task Force will  
be established no later than December 1, 1995 and will present its  
recommendations to the Company and the Union no later than July 1,  
1996.  
65  
The parties agree that if and when the Manual is changed or revised,  
the changed or revised Manual will apply to all new or changed jobs  
after July 1, 1996 but that any revisions in the classifications of existing  
or changed jobs shall not become effective before January 2, 1997.  
No. 13  
### SPECIAL DEPARTMENT SCHEDULING AND OVERTIME  
### PREMIUM  
The following paragraph will be activated only under specific  
conditions mutually agreed to and set forth in writing between the  
Parties.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11, Section 1(a), (2) and (b)  
any employee whose regular scheduled work week of five consecutive  
scheduled work days which includes being scheduled on Saturday or  
Sunday shall not receive premium pay for the first eight hours worked  
on Saturday or Sunday but shall be paid at time and one half for all hours  
worked on what would otherwise be their sixth work day and double  
time for all hours worked on what would otherwise be their seventh  
work day in the employee's scheduled work week.  
No. 14  
### SPECIAL CONDITIONS  
In those situations where circumstances beyond the Company’s  
control (i.e. power outage, mechanical breakdown, etc.) necessitate  
sending employees home before completion of their regular work day,  
they will not be scheduled to return to work before their next regularly  
scheduled shift without the express approval of the Plant Manager and/  
or Production Manager. Other measures of meeting production will be  
explored before scheduling such employees back in to complete their  
work day.  
The Union President and/or Chairman-Grievance Committee will be  
advised of the decision.  
No. 15  
### ALCOHOL & DRUG POLICY  
American Stee] Foundries is committed to and required to provide  
a drug and alcohol free workplace for its employees. The Company  
agrees to give full support by its management to promote and enforce the  
policy at all levels of the organization. Promotion will include drug and  
66  
alcohol awareness programs for employees including information which  
may be obtained in the Human Resources Department on approved local  
in-patient and out-patient treatment programs.  
Pursuant to this policy the use of legal drugs and/or alcohol by  
employees which impacts our work environment will be handled as  
follows.  
Employees who are alcohol or drug dependent who voluntarily  
enter an approved rehabilitation program will have such pro  
covered under the terms of the Health Benefit Program or CIGNA Plan,  
whichever is applicable, if the employee successfully completes the  
program and returms to work. In any case, enrollment under this policy  
is limited to two confinements in a lifetime for effective treatment.  
Any employee who is involved in the use, consumption, possession,  
sale, distribution or transfer of an alcoholic beverage and/or illegal drug  
while on the Company property may be immediately suspended subject  
to discharge.  
Excessive absenteeism, impaired or declining work performance,  
abnormal behavior, or sustaining an OSHA recordable injury or  
contributing to such an accident by ones actions wil} be considered a  
reasonable basis for requiring an employee to submit to an alcohol/drug  
test. Such employee shall thereby be required to submit to a blood test,  
urinalysis or other alcohol/drug screen and shall be retumed to work  
after trained nnel administer the Horizontal Gaze Nystagma test,  
the Walk and Tum test and the Stand on One Foot test and determine the  
employee is fit for duty. An employee who refuses to submit a sample  
for testing may be immediately suspended subject to discharge. If an  
employee’s test result is positive based upon the confirmation amounts  
set out in this agreement, he ur she will be subject to the following  
procedure:  
Second Offense  
First Offense Under Influence  
-5 Day Penalty Layoff -Immediate suspension  
without pay Subject to discharge  
-Mandatory Completion of  
Rehabilitation Program  
~Unlimited Testing At Will  
For Two Years  
67  
Notwithstanding the above, employees hired on or after October 1,  
1995, will be subject to random/drug tests throughout their employment.  
If such an employce is found as a result of random testing to be under  
the influence of illegal drugs/alcoho! based on the confirmation amounts  
Set out in this agreement within one year from date of hire, he/she will  
be immediately suspended subject to discharge. Otherwise, employee  
will be subject to the first offense procedures outlined above.  
All tests will be performed by a NIDA certified Laboratory to insure  
consistency of results and reports. All specimens will be collected,  
transported to the laboratory, and tested in accordance with NIDA  
specifications. Al] samples testing positive sha!l be retained for at least  
thirty (30) days.  
The initial drug screening will be performed by the EMIT immunoassay  
test and all positive results will then be confirmed by a gas  
chromatography-mass spectrometry (GS-MS)} test.  
The initial alcohol test will be a breathalyzer test. Lf the breathalyzer test  
indicates the need, additional screening will be performed by a Blood  
Alcohol Test and all positive results will then be confirmed by a gas  
chromatography (GC) test.  
An “illegal drug” includes any and al) controlled substances including  
those listed below. This program does not prohibit the use or possession  
of any medication prescribed by the employee's physician, or any  
over-the-counter medication used in accordance with the prescription  
or recommended dosage. An employee will be considered under  
the influence if the confirming test indicates a drug at or above the  
confirmation amount.  
Confirmation Amount  
Amphetamine 500 ng/ml  
Barbiturates 150 ng/ml  
Benzodiazephines 150 ng/ml  
Cocaine 150 ng/ml  
Marijuana 100 ng/ml  
Methadone 150 ng/ml  
Opiates " 2000 ng/ml  
Phencyclidine (PCF) 25 ng/ml  
68  
An employee will be considered under the influence of alcohol in  
accordance with the following:  
Elapsed Time Since Employee Has  
Begun His workday to Time The  
Alcohol Reading  
From 0 Hours to 1 Hour 08 or More >  
From 1 Hour to 2 Hours .07 or More  
From 2 Hours to 3 Hours .06 or More  
From 3 Hours to 4 Hours .05 or More  
From 4 Hours to 5 Hours .04 or More  
From 5 hours to 9 Hours .03 or More  
An employee who is tested for reasonable cause will be sent home  
until the drug result is reported. Should the drug test result indicate the  
employee was not under the influence of alcohol/drugs, he/she will be  
returned to work and made whole with regard to wages.  
The Company recognizes that some employees may be alcohol and/or  
drug dependent. Such employces are encouraged to seek professional  
assistance before their dependence leads to an incident requiring  
disciplinary action.  
A voluntary admission to an approved alcohol/drug rehabilitation  
program will be strictly confidential and will not be used against the  
employee nor made a matter of record in the employee's personnel file.  
Approved alcohol/drug rehabilitation programs are covered under the  
terms of the company’s health benefit plans provided the employee  
successfully completes the program and returns to work, Details may be  
obtained on a confidential basis from the Human Resources Manager.  
An employee whose next offense, for a non-alcoho! and/or non-drug  
related violation of Company policy would subject him/her to discharge,  
and who claims a handicap due to alcohol/drug use, must make this  
claim prior to committing the rule offense which would result in the  
employee being suspended subject to discharge.  
If this claim is made timely (i.e. prior to the commission of the offense  
which would subject the employee to suspension subject to discharge)  
the employee will be referred to a company approved alcohol/drug  
rehabilitation program. If the employee enters and successfully  
completes the program he/she wil! be re-instated in accordance with  
the terms of a Last Chance Agreement and the cost of the rehabilitation  
69  
program will be covered as a provided for under the Health Benefit  
Program or CIGNA Plan, which is applicable. An employee will be  
limited to two opportunities under this provision.  
All employees returning from an extended absence, other than absence  
due to sickness or injury, (six (6) months or more) may be required to  
submit to an alcohol/drug screening test, A positive test will require  
entry into a Company approved rehabilitation program under the same  
terms and conditions as stated in the previous Paragraph. An employee  
testing positive who does not enter an approved rehabilitation program  
within five working days, or who does not complete the program will  
be terminated.  
The Company shall provide training to supervisors and EAP  
representatives. Outside professionals in the field of substance abuse  
will be utilized in the development of the training. Such raining will  
include awareness of the dangers of substance abuse, recognition  
skills of the early symptoms, characteristics of impaired behavior and  
Suggested techniques for pointing impaired employees to treatment.  
No. 16  
Entry Into The General Maintenance Occupation  
It is recognized that employees who desire entry into the General  
Maintenance occupation must have certain basic skills plus the aptitude  
to be successful. When an opening develops, candidates who have  
signed the Job Register for this occupation must pass an aptitude and  
skill battery of tests. Those passing will be considered by seniority.  
The make up of the test battery is to be developed by a joint Union and  
Company Committee and submitted to the Plant Manager for approval.  
The committee may utilize testing/consulting firms to help with this  
task. The tests developed whether oral, written or in the form of an  
actual work demonstration, are to measure whether an employee can  
satisfactorily meet the specific requirements of the occupation, including  
the ability to absorb any training that may be provided. They must be  
job-related. Any tests developed shall be fair in their makeup and in  
their administration; and be free of cultural. racial or ethnic bias. The  
tests, once developed shall be administered by Human Resources.  
No. 17  
### DEFINITION FOR “LEADPERSON”  
The term “Leadperson” refers to a job on which the employee has the  
combined responsibility of directing the work of a group of employees  
70  
on other hourly rated jobs and performing some of the same work as that  
of the group directed. The direction generally consists of activities such  
as required to:  
(a) plan work to be performed by the group;  
(b) determine “on-the-job” working procedure in the case of  
repair and maintenance work;  
(c) arrange for necessary tools, supplies, and facilities;  
(d) assign and instruct members of the group;  
(e) inspect, coordinate, and record the work performed by the  
group,  
(f) assure that group has proper personal protective equipment  
and other necessary safety equipment to do the job;  
Such direction does not include activities such as required to:  
(a) hire, promote. demote, suspend, or discharge members of the  
group; or effectively recommend such action.  
(b) represent the Company in handling employee grievances;  
(c) determine the schedules of hours, days, and weeks during  
which members of the group shall work;  
(d) perform other general supervisory or Management functions.  
After a determination is made by the Company that a “leadperson”’ is  
necessary, the Company will consult with the Union leadership to solicit  
names of employees that may be considered for the position. Individuals  
interested in becoming leadpersons shal] file an application for lead  
positions in Human Resources. Candidates for the position will be  
interviewed by a joint Union and Company Team. The recommendation  
of the team to add or remove a leadperson shall be submitted to the Plant  
Manager for final approval.  
No. 18  
### USWA PAC  
This is to confirm our understanding that the Company will check  
off and transmit to the Secretary/Treasurer of the United Steelworkers  
71  
of America Political Action Committee (USWA PAC) voluntary  
contributions to the USWA Political Action Fund from earnings of  
those employees who voluntarily authorize such contributions on forms  
provided for that purpose by the USWA PAC. The amount and timing  
of such check off deductions and the transmittal of such voluntary  
contributions shall be as specified on such forms and in conformance  
with applicable Federal and State Laws.  
The signing of such USWA PAC check off form and the making of  
such voluntary contributions are not conditions of membership in the  
Union or of employment with the Company.  
The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against  
any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shal]  
arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company for  
the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this letter.  
No. 19  
### SMALL PARTS  
This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into between’  
### AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES, GRANITE CITY PLANT,  
hereinafter referred to as the “Company”, and the UNITED STEEL  
WORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 1063, hereinafter referred to as  
the “Union”.  
The purpose of this Memorandum is to recognize the separation of the  
side frame and bolster operation from the small parts (i.e., couplers,  
yokes, low profile centerplates, knuckles, connectors, etc.) operation at  
the Granite City Plant. The side frame, bolster and draft sill operation  
will be known as “Large Parts” and the small part operation will be  
known as “ASF Small Parts”,  
ASF Small Parts  
Small Parts shal] consist of all finishing operations of small parts  
currently performed in what is called the side frame building, #1 floor  
Molding and associated small parts finishing done on one floor or 19  
track. Should the work be performed elsewhere within the facility, the  
union will be notified.  
Transfer to or from ASF Small Parts  
The following provisions are agreed upon between the parties to enable  
employees to make known their preference for working in smal! parts.  
72  
Anyone employed as of the date of this memorandum and thereafter who  
is a member of the United Steelworkers of America, Local 1063 and who  
has completed their probationary period, may request a transfer to ASF  
Small Parts by obtaining a form in the Human Resources Department  
and returning same to Human Resources.  
Employees transferring to ASF Small Parts will be subject to the wages  
and work rules that have been established for Small Parts. Employees  
transferring will retain their current seniority date, benefits and pension  
vesting rights. However, such employees will be unable to exercise their  
transfer rights to return to the Large Part operation for a minimum of one  
year from the effective date of each transfer in. The event of a downturn  
in business of the ASF Smal! Parts Plant, any current employee who has  
transferred there from Large Parts will be permitted to use their present  
seniority to bump back into Large Part production and finishing,  
An employee hired as a Small Parts employee may not request a transfer  
to Large Parts until completion of | year of service. The maximum  
number of transfers or eligible employees from small parts to large parts  
per month shall be one (1) employee from 1 floor and two (2) from  
finishing.  
Should Large Part production fall below 120 pieces per day, bargaining  
unit employees in the employment of the Company as of January |,  
1997, may exercise his plant seniority to bump into ASF Small Parts  
provided the following criteria is met:  
1} Employee must be actively working at the time big parts  
production falls below  
2) Employee must hold bumping rights on occupation(s) where  
the main function of the occupation is essentially the same as the  
one to which he is bumping.  
However, if an employee gains seniority on a job by working in Small  
Parts for one year he may use that seniority fe bumping purposes in  
accordance with the current contract language.  
Large Part employees who transfer to Small Parts under the above  
provisions will be considered as “temporary” employees and, as such,  
will acquire no seniority in Smail Parts. Such employees must return to  
Large Parts in the event they are recalled.  
73  
ASF Small Parts Wage Rate | -  
- The base wages of ASF Small Parts employees will be $3.00 per hour  
less than the occupations’ CWS evaluated job class rates as set out in  
the 10/1/95 USWA Labor Agreement between the parties. Their tota!  
earnings will be a combination of a base wage plus group incentive.  
.A Small Parts ‘incentive plan’ is agreed to and attached to this  
. memorandum of understanding: °°  
Ad Hoc Incentive Team  
‘ footy tk  
The Company and Union will maintain a team to evaluate incentive plan °  
results and needed actions to improve efficiency.  
a ~* , t  
“+ ‘  
Employees hired into the Large Part operation after the effective  
date of the Memorandum will be paid an entry wage $3/hr Jess than  
the contractual full rate of the occupation. They will receive periodic 5  
increases to full rate as follows:  
Ki  
  
‘Completion of 90 Days of Work (Union Meinber)+60 cents  
of 12 Months’ ~ a +48 cents  
‘Completion of 18 Months" ote +48 cents, |  
Completion of 24 Months +48 cents  
Completion of 30 Months +48  
Completion of 36 Months ° +48  
Employees in the 36 month entry period will also receive negotiated  
. . ~ mad  
general wage increases,“ os =  
to oe fic  
Employees may bid to higher rated jobs in accordance with their  
seniority; however, their. occupational hourly rate will continue to reflect  
the above incremental wage until the 36 month training  
period. In other words, they may not bypass any specified timeframe.  
They will, however, receive the difference between the CWS evaluation’ °  
of the job they are moving from and the job they are moving to. rte  
Employees in the 36 month entry period who bid to incentive jobs will  
be eligible for incentive pay. dette d %  
At the completion of.36 of Service; new employees of the Large  
Part operation will parity with their CWS evaluated job class rate.  
74  
ue  
Bargaining unit employees on the payroll as of January !, 1977, will at  
no time while accruing seniority service credit be subject to said new  
hire wage for the Large Parts operation. Nor will employees -on the  
payroll as of January |, 1997, who are no longer accruing seniority  
Service credit by reason of Article 13, Section 4(b), 5 and 6 who are  
subsequently rehired by subject to this rate.  
It is intended that the Small Piece operation workforce will be self-  
directed by utilizing lead persons rather than salaried supervisors.  
Obviously, a limited number of salaried supervisors. will be required to  
serve as a resource and support to the work teams.  
Lead persons will undergo a rigorous selection process by a joint labor/  
management committee and those selected will be given training.  
The rate for Small Parts lead person shall be equivalent to the lead  
person rates in Large Parts.  
S fi { Di * i | j  
All employees will participate in a safety dividend program.  
If at the end of the calendar year, workers compensation costs are less  
than $1 per man hour worked, the amount of money less than $1 per  
hour worked will be paid to employees proportionate to their total hours  
worked during the year.  
The safety dividend will be paid in a lump sum check after the end of  
each calendar year.  
(Example: Costs are $.50/hour worked. Employee worked 2,000 hours  
~ employee receive 2000 X $.50 = $1,000).  
To be eligible, an employee must be on the payroll as of December of  
the calendar year for which the dividend is being paid.  
No. 20 TET  
### STUDY TEAM - SWING VS FIXED SHIFTS  
The Company and Union will create a team for the purpose of developing  
an agreement to convert some or all of the current rotating shifts to fixed  
shifts operations. Affected shifts and departments must be mutually  
agreed upon by the Company and the Union and will be on a for trial  
75  
basis. The Company and the Union will meet after three (3)-months of  
any fixed shift trial to evaluate results. Continuance of the arrangement,  
modifications or returning to a'rotating shift will be decided at that time.  
Both parties must agree to fixed shifts on an ongoing basis at that time.  
yea shoo:  
Holiday Calendar  
New.YearsDay . . ... Jan 3 Jan 2 Jan 1  
Floating Holiday“ a  
Good Friday 25 | Apr 4 Apr 6 af  
Memorial Day) May 36°. May28°; i  
Independence Day | | July 4 July 4 July4 ok  
Labor Day “Tet 5. , Sept 4 Sept 3  
Thanksgiving Day: to “Nov 24: Nov 23 Nov 22. . i  
Day after: Thanksgiving Day Nov 25 ‘Nov 24 Nov23 °°  
weer ty ones  
Day before — | Dec 23 Dec 22 Dec 24  
1 1  
' ‘  
Christmas Day” 2 : . Dec Dec 25.  
Day before New Years ‘Day ‘Dee 30 : Bec 29 - Dec 3)  
+t matt, * —_ '  
. « - 7  
  
~ - bee me - “ -  
-- we aes  
be tem ode oe! - ohn  
~ we et fe w te i 79 ~ 2  
“ gh “abs : +}  
yan TM wea 2  
é oe se a2 ie cue) a  
et, eer wu ved .  
at ae  
January  
### SMTWTFS  
;  
2(3) 4 5678  
9 104112131415  
16 17 18 19 2024 22  
23 24 25 26 27 28 29  
3631  
April  
### SMTWTFS  
12  
3456789  
101112 13 14 15 16  
17 18 19 20 21 22 23  
24 25 26 27 28.29 30  
July  
### SMTWTFS  
1 2  
3 §6749.  
10 T712 13.14 15 16 ’-  
17 18 19 20.21 22 23  
24 252627282930 }  
910111213 14 15  
16 17 18 19 20 21 22  
23 24 25 26 27 28 29  
30 31  
February  
### SMTWTFS.  
12°3:4 5  
6 7 B  
13 14 15 1617 18 19  
20 21 22 23 24 25 26  
2728  
Ma  
### MTW F  
23 4 6  
91011121314  
6 17,18 19 20 21  
24 25 26 27 28  
### Y  
+  
5  
$s  
7  
### -SM TWET FS  
12345  
. 6 9101112.  
14314 15 16 19 '  
2021222 26  
27 28 29 30  
March  
### SMTWHTFS  
1234 &  
6 7 8 9101112  
131415 16 17 19  
20212223 240528  
27 28293031 ~:~  
June  
### SMTWTFS  
+2 3 4  
§ 6 7 B $1011,  
12131415 1617 18  
19 20 21 22 23 24 25  
26 27 28 29 30  
September  
### SMTWT.FS  
12 3  
4 6.7 8 310  
1172413 14:151617° |  
181920 21 22 23 24  
x] 28 29.30;,.  
December  
### SM TW T  
12 3  
4  
“1441213 14.15.16 17  
1819 20 21 2223)24  
25(20)27 28 29(70)31  
   
Hotidays: January 3 New Years Day; March 25 Good Friday; May 30 Memorial Day; July  
4 Independence Day; September 5 Labor Day; November 24 Thanksgiving Day; November  
25 Day after Thansgiving Day; December 23 Day before Christmas Day; December 26  
Christmas Day; December 30 Day before New Years Day.  
Hotiday talling on Saturday will be so marked on the calendar and celebrated on the  
Saturday unless production requirements permit otherwise. Holidays falling on Sunday will  
be celebrated on the Monday and so marked on the calendar.  
77  
January:  
### TWTFES'  
45 67  
8 910 11 12 1314,  
45 16 17 1819 20 21  
22 23 24 25 26 27 28;  
February  
### SMT™WTFES  
“a "1-2, 3  
"5 6 7:8°91011  
12 13 14 15 16 17 18.  
19 2021 22 23 24 25  
March  
### SMTWHTFS  
123 4  
§ 6 7 8 91011  
12131415 1617 18  
19 20 21 22 23 24 25  
293031 26 27 26 29 30 31  
Apa: June  
### SMTWTFS  
23456  
‘910411 12 13{14)1  
16 17 18 19 20 2% 22  
12 3  
4:5.6 7 8 910  
23 24 25 26 27 2829  
30  
11121314 16 16 17  
18 19 2021 22 23 24  
25 26 27 28 29 30  
1 22 23 24 25 26°27.  
  
: . . +  
July “ _  
### SM ‘SM TWTES  
354.5) Fe de  
"6 758°9101112 : 567  
13 1415 1617 1819 10 77 12 1314  
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 17 18 1920 21  
27 2829 3031 i 24 25 26 27 28  
September .  
$ 6° 7 2  
$19 12 13.14 15°  
16 17 16.19 20 2% 22  
23 24 25 26 27 2829  
  
### F  
1  
  
5  
2  
9  
1  
2  
2  
Novernber  '  
### J'M-TW TFS S$  
 9°2.3 4 :  
8 91011 “3 7  
10  
456  
12131415 361718 |" 111213 14  
19 2021 | |1718 192021  
26 27 28 28 30 . 2 6 27  
31  
### M  
   
. Holidays: January.2 New, Years Day;.April 14 Good Friday;, May 29 Memorial Day; July 4  
Independence Day; September.4 Labor Day; November 23 Thanksgiving Day; November  
24 Day atter Thansgiving Day;, Qecember,22 Day before Christmas Day; 2£  
Christmas Day; December 29 Day before New Years Day.  
Coe faded PO, FE 4  
falling on: Saturday, will be sa marked on the ‘calendar and celebrated on the  
Saturday unless production requirements permit otherwise, Holidays talling on Sunday wil  
be celebrated on the following Monday and so marked on the calendar.  
78  
January  
### s TWTeES  
23456  
7 910111213  
14 15 16 17 181920  
21 22 23 24 25 26 27°  
28293031  
111213 14 15 16 17  
18 19 20 21 22 23 24  
25 26 27 28 29 30 31.  
111213141  
161920212  
25 26 27 28  
$s  
2  
2  
6  
1°  
8  
15 16 17 48 19 2027 13.14 15 18.17 18 19- 1011421314451  
22 23.24 25 26 27 28 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 17 181920 21 22 23  
27(28)29 30 31 24 25 26 27 26 29 30,  
we  
September.  
$ 3 M TA TF a  
4 okey  
1 3  
. August  
### SM:TW T  
ey 7 4452:  
### F  
3.  
7°8!'9101  
42 43.7445 16 17 18  
19 20 21 22 23 24 25  
26 27 28293031  
~November  
§  
667  
131415  
16 17 18 19 2021 22  
23 24 25 26 27 28 29  
wow,  
December  
### SMIW.T FS  
### MT Te  
‘esd J; a,  
8 910 |. "2-3. 607 8  
7.  
24  
1112 13:14 1  
18.19 20 21  
25 26 = ane  
~ Holidays: January 1 New Years Day; April 6 Good May 28 Memorial Day; July 4  
Independence Day; September 3 Labor Day; November 22 Thanksgiving Day; November  
* 23 Day atter: Thansgiving Day; Decembér 24 Oay before Christmas Day: December 25  
“ Christmas Day; December 31: ‘Day ca New Years Day..-:  
ihe wey ah  * a!  
+. wa en  
§101112 131415  
es on 19 20 21 22  
27 28 29  
141  
21 22 23 2425 26 27  
28 29 30-31  
oe a  
   
  
Holiday falling on Saturday witf be so marked on the calendar snd celebrated on the  
'* Saturday unless production requiremefits ‘pennit otherwise:/-Holidays falling on will  
be celebrated on ihe fotlowing Monday ana so marked on the calendar. - 7  
wee CHER . vA ten  
9  
 