       
    
   
€ ©  
### CO NS  
### “MERC IN. Ww  
### COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
By and between  
### ACME MARKETS, INC  
And  
### UNITED FOOD and COMMERCIAL WORKERS,  
LOCAL 1776  
Effective: February 6, 2005  
Expires: February 2, 2008  
TO: Local 1776 Acme Markets, Inc. Members  
Dear Member:  
This is a copy of your Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
This document establishes the rules and regulations that  
govern your workplace and details the pay and benefits to  
which you are entitled. Read it carefully.  
Your contract is a living document only when each  
member knows it, lives by it and enforces it. Make sure you  
know your contract.  
[f you have any questions about your contract and how  
it is interpreted, be sure to contact your Shop Steward or  
your Union Representative.  
With a contract we have the unity and the strength to  
forge ahead and meet the challenges of the future.  
Together we can make it work,  
Sincerely and Fraternally,  
### WEND . YOUNG, IV  
Presidefht  
Table of Contents  
Page  
FS |  
Bereavement Leave: Wil. Pay sa 9  
Duration OF 39  
Exhibit 1 - Addendum 4]  
2 ~ 42  
Exhibit 3 - Miscellaneous Agreements a  
Exhibit 4 - Benefits At A Glance® 46  
Exhibit 5 - Benefits At A Glance* 49  
Exhibit 6 Pension 50  
P 51  
Grievance And Arbitration Procedure 10  
ATI one un 31  
| oan” 29  
23  
Hours And Overtime 17  
Housing Trust PUnd 38  
JOD 37  
Language Simplification 38  
Leave Of Absence With Pay 9  
Leave Of Absence Without Pay 8  
Manag emicnt R10 NS 3  
Miscellaneous Working Conditions 27  
No Strikes, NO 3]  
BG Gs © 3  
### PROVISIONS 35  
Personmel Transactions 3  
inc |  
AOC ene eae  
Right Of Discharge And Appeal 11  
+  
37  
BUC ie on 36  
DU ay 22  
4  
SHOP... 3  
Union Stewards, Enforcement Of Standards 29  
24  
### AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 8th day of December 2005, by  
and between ACME MARKETS, INC. (hereinafter referred to as “Employer’),  
### and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION NO. 1776,  
### PHILADELPHIA DIVISION AND ALLENTOWN/READING DIVISION  
(hereinafter referred to as “UNION”), affiliated with the United Food and  
Commercial Workers International Union affiliated with the AFL-CIO.  
### ARTICLE 1  
### PURPOSE  
1.1 The employer and the Union have reached agreement with each other in  
regard to wages, hours, and other conditions of employment which are set forth,  
with particularity, in this Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
1.2 There shall be no discrimination against any Employee because of race,  
color, creed, age, sex, sexual preference or union membership or activities.  
Whenever a word is used in the masculine gender, it is intended to and does  
include both men and women equally.  
### ARTICLE 2  
### RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION  
2.1 The Employer recognizes Union as the exclusive representative of all  
employees, except meat, delicatessen, seafood employees, store director and  
supervisors, in all retail food stores served by Warehouses in the Employer’s  
Philadelphia Region in accordance with past practice. (Documents clarifying  
intent of parties attached hereto as Exhibit 1 Addendum).  
2.2 a. All work and services connected with or incidental to the handling or  
selling of merchandise offered for sale in the Employer’s establishment with the  
exception of beverage, bread vendors, rack jobbers, and other vendors as clarified  
in Exhibit 2, shall be performed by employees referred to above. However, in the  
event of a crisis resulting in a reduction of hours or layoff the Union may revoke  
said relief in the affected store(s) in order to protect the hours and jobs of union  
members. This provision shall be waived during the initial six (6) months of a  
major remodel or a new store opening.  
b. The following terms will be effective 01/01/2006 through 02/02/2008. All  
work and services connected with or incidental to the handling or selling of mer-  
chandise offered for sale in the Employer’s store’s shall be performed by the  
employees referred to above, except that the Employer may use any direct store  
delivery assistance available to the trade. Upon a written request by the Union,  
the Company will provide the Union with the total monthly hours and total  
monthly sales for a store for the preceding three months. If the proportion of  
hours compared to sales has been significantly reduced in the preceding 3  
months, then restrictions on vendor utilization, for that store, shall revert back to  
the restrictions in place under the parties’ contract dated 01/23/2000 through  
02/05/2005.  
This section 2.2b will expire on 02/02/2008. Effective 02/03/2008 all of the  
terms contained in 2.2 above that were in effect prior to 01/01/2006 will revert  
back into effect. The parties may extend the terms of 2.2b above by written mutu-  
al agreement.  
The parties agree to incorporate the settlement between UFCW Local 1360 and  
Acme dated 06/10/2004, relevant to resets into this Agreement.  
2.3 The parties agree to merge the Allentown/Reading bargaining unit with the  
Philadelphia bargaining unit to create one Collective Bargaining Agreement as  
described in Exhibit 7 of this Agreement.  
2.4 In the event there is, during the term of this Agreement, a merger, transfer  
of members, assignment of representation responsibilities or other similar consol-  
idation between Local 1776 and another Local, or part of another Local, of the  
United Food and Commercial Workers, involving the employees of Acme work-  
ing within the geographic jurisdiction of Local 1776 as set forth in Article 2.1, the  
Company agrees to recognize the right of Local 1776 to represent said employ-  
ces. The parties to this Agreement will establish a Special Committee to resolve  
any and all seniority and/or contractual questions which may arise as a result of  
such merger or consolidation. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties shall be  
to continue, in effect, the wages, benefits, and all other conditions of employment  
that exist for Acme employees currently employed under another collective bar-  
gaining agreement. This section is limited to UFCW Locals 1776, 56, 1360, 1358  
and 27 and their successor locals.  
2.5 In furtherance of this Agreement the parties have agreed to continue with  
past practice concerning the relief granted in the Allentown - Reading Division.  
bo  
### ARTICLE 3  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
3.1 All rights and powers not expressly restricted or limited by the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement shall remain in and be exercised at the sole discre-  
tion of the Employer.  
### ARTICLE 4  
### UNION SHOP  
4.1 It shall be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this  
Agreement shall become and remain members in good standing in the Union.  
New employees shall become members of the Union on the thirty-first (3 1st) day  
following their date of employment. (AIl to be enforced and applied in accor-  
dance with the provisions of Section 8(A)3 of the National Labor Relations Act  
as amended). At time of hire all necessary Union forms will be completed and  
forwarded to the Union on a monthly basis.  
4.2 Employer agrees to discharge any employee for nonpayment of dues and/or  
initiation fees, upon seven (7) days written notice from the Union to do so.  
### ARTICLE 5  
### PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS - CHECKOFFS  
5.1 The employer shall checkoff uniform initiation fees, regular union dues, and  
delinquent dues, upon presentation to it of a lawful checkoff authorization. The  
Union shall certify to the Employer the amount to be deducted. Said deductions  
shall be on a weekly basis and remitted to the Union in accordance with 5.4 below.  
5.2 The Employer agrees to deduct authorized Credit Union payments from the  
wages of employees upon receipt of proper written authorization. All such deduc-  
tions and remittances to the Credit Union shall be in accordance with 5.4 below.  
5.3 It is further recognized that the Union has a Political Action Committee and  
is entitled to voluntary contributions by its members. Upon receipt of a proper  
written authorization from an employee, the Employer agrees to deduct weekly  
payments in the amount of twenty-five cents ($.25) or more from the wages of  
said employee in accordance with 5.4 below.  
5.4 The Employer agrees to transfer all payroll deductions electronically at the  
time payroll is issued, including union dues, P.A.C. and Credit Union deductions.  
5.5. Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any  
and all claims, demands, suit or liability that might arise out of or by reason of  
action taken or not taken in respect to all deductions made pursuant to the provi-  
sions of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 6  
### UNION ACTIVITIES  
6.1 There shall be no discrimination against any employees because of Union  
membership or activities. It is agreed Union duties and activities will not be car-  
ried on during hours of work. During hours when store is closed, proper securi-  
ty measures shall be taken in each store. This shall not prevent Union officials  
from entering stores to satisfy themselves that this Agreement is being observed.  
6.2 Complaints and grievances will be discussed with officials of the Employer,  
however, they will not be discussed with store employees during hours of work,  
except where there is an alleged violation of the Agreement.  
6.3 Bulletin boards in the Employer’s stores may be used by the Union provided any  
notices posted are first approved by the Employer’s Human Resources Department,  
except for Union meeting notices which only contain time, place and date of meeting.  
### ARTICLE 7  
### SENIORITY  
7.1 Seniority lists shall be established twice (2x) each year and submitted to the  
Union separately. For purposes of this Agreement there shall be two separate and  
distinct seniority areas: Philadelphia Division and Allentown/Reading Division.  
7.2 Seniority shall be calculated by continuous service from the last date of  
employment within the bargaining unit, within the Philadelphia and/or  
Allentown/Reading division. Employees who are involuntarily laid off and sub-  
sequently rehired shall retain their former seniority regardless of any change in  
their place of employment as follows:  
A. | Year and less than 2 Years of continuous service:  
One Year from layoff date  
B. 2 Years and up to 10 Years of continuous service:  
Number of years equal to number of years of service.  
C. 10 or more Years Service of continuous service:  
All former seniority.  
7.3 Employees being recalled shall report for work no later than seventy two  
(72) hours after receiving notice. Any employee who refuses a notice of recall  
shall no longer retain their former seniority or right to recall.  
7.4 A. Employees with six (6) months of continuous service absent on account  
of Ill health shall retain their seniority for a period of eighteen (18) months from  
the date of absence.  
B. Employees absent due to a work related accident shall retain full seniori-  
ty upon a duly authorized release from Worker’s Compensation, a personal physi-  
cian and Company physician.  
7.5 In accordance with the current Veterans Reemployment Rights Act employ-  
ees returning from military service shall have their wages and classification deter-  
mined provided they apply for work within the required period.  
7.6 When an employee is upgraded they will carry their seniority for purposes  
of wage rates, also, they will not suffer a reduction in their rate of pay.  
### ARTICLE 8  
### PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS  
8.1 Promotions:  
A. All promotions shall be based on the employee’s qualifications, availability,  
documented work record and seniority. A ninety (90) day probationary period  
will apply in case of all promotions.  
B. An annual Promotional Survey will be conducted in each store, for each divi-  
sion, where employees will indicate their desire for advancement. Senior employ-  
ees will be given notice of any job openings. For purposes of filling full time jobs  
only, part time employees will receive one (1) year full time seniority credit for  
each two (2) years of part time service. The offering of full time day jobs will be  
alternated between full time night crew and part time employees.  
Ca  
1) The Promotional Survey will be for the following:  
Customer Service Attendant to Part Time Clerk  
Part Time Clerk to Full Time Night Crew  
Part Time Clerk to Full Time Day Work  
Part Time Clerk to Part Time Scan  
Full Time Night Crew to Full Time Day Work  
Full Time Day to Full Time Night Crew  
Full Time Clerk to Rated Classification  
Rated Classification to Rated Classification  
2) The completed Promotional Survey will be reviewed by the Union, District  
Manager and Director of Human Resources. If during the term of this Agreement  
there is a reorganization of the Allentown Area a meeting will be held to discuss  
promotions by Local Union.  
3) The Union will receive notification of the employees considered, the select-  
ed employee and the reason for said selection. While such selection is in process  
the Employer may temporarily assign an employee to the position.  
4) The senior qualified employee(s) in the District determined by the  
Promotional Survey review shall be given the opportunity to receive training for  
the higher rated position. For the purpose of training the employee may be trans-  
ferred, and/or have schedule changes.  
5) Upon completion of this training, the employee will be given the opportuni-  
ty to temporarily substitute in the job within the store when there is a need to  
replace the regular person assigned to that position.  
6) Employer may temporarily assign an employee to the open position while  
the selection is in process.  
7) Any employee who refuses training will remain in their current position until  
another survey is completed  
8) When no employee has expressed a desire to fill the position(s) the  
Employer may fill the position from any source.  
C. Full Time seniority shall commence the date the employee became full time.  
Upon such upgrading employees will receive full credit in determining their  
proper wage and vacation benefits.  
D. Promotion from the bagger classification shall be by seniority and availabil-  
ity within each store. These employees must be given the opportunity for promo-  
tion before new employees are hired, unless such applicant possesses previous  
Industry experience. Upon promotion, employees shall go to the next higher rate  
on the Clerk progression, then continue on that progression.  
8.2 Demotions: Demotions from a higher rated classification shall be worked  
out in conjunction with the Union.  
8.3 Lavoffs:  
A. In case of layoff, due to lack of work, of a full time or part time employee,  
the Employer shall first recognize seniority within the job classification.  
B. The employee with the least seniority in the store shall have the right to dis-  
place the least senior employee within (a) the District Manager’s territory within  
the Union’s divisional jurisdiction; (b) the adjoining District Manager’s territory  
within the Union’s divisional jurisdiction; (c) within the Union’s divisional juris-  
diction.  
C. When an employee has exercised their rights in accordance with the above  
paragraphs, said employee shall have the right to return to that area if a similar  
position becomes available within a period of twelve (12) months.  
D. The Employer shall give one (1) week’s notice of an intended layoff of full  
time employees, and seventy-two (72) hours notice of a permanent layoff of part  
time employees to the Union and the employee.  
E. In the case of temporary layoff caused by strikes, acts of God, power failure  
or other reasons beyond the control of the Employer, advance notice need not be  
given in regards to daily or weekly work schedules.  
F. In the event of a reduction from full time to part time, due to lack of work,  
the least senior full time employee within the job classification shall be the first  
to be reduced. Such employees shall receive all available straight time hours up  
to the maximum part time hours within the store.  
G. The Employer shall combine existing part time assignments within each  
store so as to provide the maximum part time employment per individual within  
the definition of part time employment and seniority of the employee (provided  
the part time employee is regularly and continuously available to work such  
hours); and further to create as many forty (40) hour positions as possible.  
8.4 Transfers:  
A. All transfers provided for herein shall be within the employee’s job classifi-  
cation with the least senior qualified employee being transferred when necessary.  
B. Permanent transfers shall be by seniority in conjunction with ability, practi-  
cability, transportation and travel time, where possible transfers will be within the  
District Manager’s territory.  
C. Temporary transfers will be based on the needs of the business. Employees  
will be reimbursed the difference in cost of transportation if there is an increase  
in their normal cost of carfare.  
D. In stores where the labor cost is prohibitive and profitability is in jeopardy,  
Company and Union agree to meet to implement an employee mix designed to  
improve the operation of the store.  
8.5 Rehiring:  
A. Employees on layoff shall be the first to be rehired, within their classifica-  
tion, in the event of a job opening, in accordance with Article 8 - Seniority.  
B. The Employer will notify the Union monthly of all new hires, promotions,  
demotions, layoffs, and permanent transfers occurring among the members of the  
Union during the previous weeks.  
8.6 Return After Or Accident: Where an employee has been absent from  
work due to illness or accident for one (1) week or more, employee shall be  
required to give Employer not less than forty-eight hours (48) notice, excluding  
Sunday, of his intention to return to work. Such employee shall have the right to  
displace a junior employee, either full or part time, regardless of the posted  
schedule, without notice.  
### ARTICLE 9  
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY  
9.1 Employees who are appointed or elected to a Union position shall be grant-  
ed a leave of absence upon proper written notice from the Union. At the end of  
such service with the Union, if physically qualified, they shall be returned with-  
out loss of seniority, and at their former wage rate, plus any increase or less any  
reduction that may have become effective during such absence.  
8  
9.2 Employees appointed to a management position may, at the discretion of  
the Employer, be returned to the bargaining unit following a meeting with the  
Union to determine their seniority and classification.  
9.3 Any employee may be given a leave of absence not to exceed one (1) year  
for any reason acceptable to the Employer. This decision shall not be withheld  
arbitrarily or capriciously.  
### ARTICLE 10  
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY  
10.1 Jury Duty. All employees actually summoned and serving on juries will  
be granted time off, when needed, and will receive the difference between their  
straight time basic weekly pay and the amount received while on jury duty except  
on their normally scheduled day off. They will be expected to work when the jury  
is not in session, but under no circumstances shall the application of this clause  
result in a change in the basic weekly pay or normal weekly schedule. Night crew  
employees shall be excused from their daily or nightly schedule without loss of  
earnings.  
10.2 Union Orientation Leave. Following the completion of sixty (60) days  
of employment the Employer will schedule employees two (2) hours off with pay  
to attend an Orientation Program. The employee will receive an explanation of  
the terms and conditions of their employment, fringe benefits, and union policy.  
A. Proof of attendance from the Union must be presented to the Store Director.  
B. Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from any claims  
arising out of injury to or by the employee while driving to or from the above session.  
### ARTICLE 11  
### BEREAVEMENT LEAVE WITH PAY  
11.1 In the case of a death of an employee’s spouse or child they shall be grant-  
ed four (4) days off. In the event of a death of the employee’s parent, brother, sis-  
ter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent or grandchild, they shall be granted  
three (3) days off. The time off shall be within the scheduled workweek, not  
counting Sunday or their regular day off. The application of this clause shall not  
result in a change in the employee’s basic weekly pay.  
### ARTICLE 12  
### GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE  
12.1 The parties agree with the following principles, concepts, and expressions  
of intent:  
A. To solve all disputes which may arise concerning the interpretation and  
application of the Agreement in as expeditious a fashion as possible.  
B. To create an atmosphere of problem solving designed to contribute to the  
success of the Company and the well being of the Union’s members and the pro-  
tection of their contractual rights.  
C. No changes in the actual procedural steps of this Article may be made with-  
out the approval of the Executive Board of Local 1776.  
12.2 All Grievances or disputes arising during the term of this Agreement con-  
cerning the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement shall  
be handled in the manner set forth below.  
A. STEP ONE: All such grievances or disputes must be brought to the atten-  
tion of the other party within two weeks after the occurrence.  
B. STEP TWO: Should the matter remain unresolved either party may file its  
grievance in writing with the other party. (A party is defined as the Employer or  
Union, not an individual employee).  
12.3 All unresolved grievances must be filed for Arbitration or withdrawn after  
180 days.  
12.4 If any such grievance cannot be resolved, upon (5) days written notice the  
matter may be submitted to an Impartial Arbitrator or to the American Arbitration  
Association, who shall handle the matter in accordance with its rules. The  
Arbitrator shall render a decision within thirty (30) days of the close of the hear-  
ing, unless extended by mutual consent of the parties.  
12.5 The Arbitrator shall not have the authority to amend, modify, or in any  
manner change this Agreement. The cost of the Arbitrator shall be shared by the  
parties. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties  
and the employee(s) involved.  
12.6 The right of the Employer or the Union to seek legal recourse against  
10  
action in breach of Article 26 without submission to the grievance and arbitration  
procedures of this Article is expressly recognized by the parties.  
12.7 As determined by Company and Union Representatives certain grievances  
raised to the level of arbitration may be processed through an alternative method.  
Parties will select an Arbitrator from an established list. The case will be present-  
ed by employees of the parties.  
12.8 In the alternative, either party in the event of an alleged or asserted breach  
of Article 26 may institute expedited arbitration by telegram to American  
Arbitration Association and the other party, and an Arbitrator shall be designated  
within twenty-four (24) hours. The hearing shall be held promptly, but not later  
than twenty-four (24) hours of the notice. The Arbitrator shall issue an award  
three (3) hours after the hearing, it shall be in writing, with or without an opin-  
ion, either party may request a written opinion. The Arbitrator may award injunc-  
tive or other relief. Enforcement of such an Award by a Court of Law is not pre-  
cluded by election of this alternative procedure.  
12.9 The question of damages shall be exclusively for the Arbitrator and not for  
a Court of Law, except as it may be part of an Award enforced by a Court.  
12.10 This Article is the exclusive method of determining employee grievances  
or disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the provisions of this  
Agreement. No employee or former employee shall have any right under this  
Agreement of any claim, proceeding, action or otherwise on the basis or by rea-  
son of any claims that the Union or any Union officer or representative has acted  
or failed to act relative to presentation, prosecution, or settlement of any griev-  
ance or other matter as to which the Union or any Union officer or representative  
has authority or discretion to act or not to act under the terms of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 13  
### RIGHT OF DISCHARGE AND APPEAL  
13.1 The employer shall have the right to discharge any employee for good and  
sufficient cause. Any employee working for a competitor while on vacation or  
time off shall be considered terminated.  
13.2 Any employee with more than sixty (60) days of continuous service shall  
have the right to appeal a discharge to the Union, who must make an appeal in  
writing within two (2) weeks of the discharge. Failure to do so will result in the  
matter being considered closed.  
11  
13.3 Upon such appeal, the Employer and the Union shall jointly investigate  
the reasons and justification of the discharge. If the parties cannot reach an agree-  
ment then the matter shall be handled in accordance with Article13.  
13.4 In the event that the discharge is found not to be justified the employee may  
be reinstated with or without back pay and restoration of privileges and seniority.  
### ARTICLE 14  
### WAGES  
14.1 Wages:  
Across-the-Board Increases:  
The following across-the-board increases (ATB) shall be effective on the dates  
indicated for those employees and department heads at or above the top of their  
respective wage progression. Employees who reach the appropriate top rate dur-  
ing the term of the Agreement shall become eligible for any remaining across-the-  
board increases. All progression rates including start rates and top rates will be  
increased by the ATB on the same dates.  
### ATB ATB  
Effective Effective  
2/04/05 02/05/06  
Department Heads  
Full-time, Part-time Clerks &  
General Maintenance Clerks $ .45/hr. $ .35/hr.  
Non-checker qualified  
Clerks and CSA's $ .25/hr. $ .20/hr.  
### 14.2 DEPARTMENT HEADS  
   
Effective Effective  
12/04/05 02/05/06  
Assistant $19.428 $19.778  
Produce $19.428 $19.778  
Head Cashier $18.477 $18.827  
Dairy $18.40 $18.75  
12  
### ATB  
Effective  
02/04/07  
$ .30/hr.  
$ .15/hr.  
Effective  
02/04/07  
$20.078  
$20.078  
$19.127  
$19.05  
   
Effective  
12/04/05  
Assistant $17.03  
Produce $17.03  
Head Cashier $16.13  
Dairy $16.00  
14.3 Clerks Wage Progressions  
Effective  
02/05/06  
$17.38  
$17.38  
$16.48  
$16.35  
Effective  
02/04/07  
$17.68  
$17.68  
$16.78  
$16.65  
A. Full and Part Time Clerks [Philadelphia Division Only] hired prior to  
1/24/93 and currently in progression:  
Modify wage progression as follows:  
Effective  
12/04/05  
After 48 Months  
After 54 Months  
After 60 Months $14.95  
Effective  
02/05/06  
$15.30  
Effective  
02/04/07  
$15.60  
B. The following wage progression scale shall apply to all full time and part  
time clerks [Philadelphia and Allentown/Reading Division] in progression  
between 01/24/93 and (1/23/00:  
Effective  
12/04/05  
Start $ 6.70  
After 60 days $ 6.95  
After 6 months $ 7.20  
After 12 months $ 7.45  
After 18 months $7.70  
After 24 months $ 8.20  
### CHECKER QUALIFIED  
After 30 months $ 8.95  
After 36 months $ 9.95  
Effective  
02/05/06  
$7.05  
$7.30  
$7.55  
$7.80  
$8.05  
$8.55  
$9.30  
$10.30  
Effective  
02/04/07  
$7.35  
$7.60  
$7.85  
$8.10  
$8.35  
$8.85  
$9.60  
$10.60  
13  
After 42 months $10.95 $11.30 $11.60  
After 48 months $13.45 $13.80 $14.10  
1) All clerks are entitled to progress to the 48 month rate. Those clerks who  
waive their right and/or fail to checker qualify will not progress past the 24 month  
rate. It is the Employer’s responsibility to offer checker training and an opportu-  
nity to qualify prior to an above $7.25 per hour before January 26, 1997 will not  
have their rate reduced or frozen as a result of this agreement. In accordance with  
past practice, employees who fail to checker qualify will be given additional  
opportunities on a reasonable basis.  
2) Employees who are checker qualified after 24 months of seniority will  
advance to the progression rate that represents their length of service.  
C. The following wage progression scale shall apply to all full time and  
part time clerks [Philadelphia and Allentown/Reading Division] hired on or  
after  
The minimum uniform rate of pay for full and part time clerks hired on or after  
12/4/05 will be $6.95 per hour. (02/5/06 will be $7.30 per hour) (2/4/07 will be  
$7.60 per hour). Each employee hired on or after 01/23/00 shall receive an  
increase of $.25 per hour after sixty (60) days of service and on each six (6)  
month anniversary of employment through forty-two (42) months of employ-  
ment. Upon reaching forty-eight (48) months of employment, the employee shall  
move to the appropriate top wage rate set forth below:  
Effective Effective Effective  
12/04/05 02/05/06 02/04/07  
Full-time and  
Part-time Clerks $11.60 $11.80 $12.00  
Employees at $11.40 per hour on or before 12/4/05 will receive $.45 across the  
board increase.  
D. The Employer may give new hires credit for prior supermarket industry  
experience consistent with Article 20. If the Employer finds it necessary to  
increase the new hire-starting rate, the Parties agree to meet and discuss imple-  
mentation of the new hire-starting rate. In the event the Employer raises the uni-  
form start rate in a store, employees in the same classification in that store who are  
below the new uniform starting rate shall be increased to the new hire rate plus $  
.25 per hour, and then shall continue to progress $.25 per hour as described above,  
14  
until reaching the top rate or forty-eight (48) months of service, whichever shall  
occur first.  
E. Employees reaching the top of progression will be eligible for any remain-  
ing across the board increases in 14.1  
14.4 General Maintenance Clerks  
The wage progression for General Maintenance Clerks are as follows:  
Effective Effective Effective  
01/23/00 03/04/01 03/03/02  
Start $7.45 $7.80 $8.10  
2 months $7.70 $8.05 $8.35  
6 months $8.20 $8.55 $8.85  
12 months $8.95 $9.30 $9.60  
18 months $9.45 $9.80 $10.10  
24 months $9.70 $10.05 $10.35  
30 months $9.95 $10.30 $10.60  
36 months $12.70 $13.05 $13.35  
General Maintenance Clerks at or above top progression rates will receive the  
Across the board wage increases shown above.  
Duties of this classification will include general cleaning, floor care, house-  
keeping and maintenance throughout the store and its premises.  
14.5 Customer Service Attendant.  
A. The following wage progression scale shall apply to all Customer  
Service Attendants [Philadelphia and Allentown/Reading Division] hired on  
or after 01/23/00:  
The minimum uniform rate of pay for CSA’s hired on or after 12/04/05 will be  
$5.75 per hour (02/05/06 will be $5.95 per hour) (02/04/07 will be $6.10 per  
hour). Each employee hired on or after 01/23/00 shall receive an increase of $.15  
per hour after sixty (60) days of service and on each six (6) month anniversary of  
employment. In the event the Employer raises the uniform start rate in a store,  
employees in the same classification in that store who are below the new hire  
starting rate shall be increased to the new hire rate plus $ .15 per hour and con-  
tinue to progress every six (6) months as described above.  
=—  
oT]  
Duties of this classification shall include: cleaning, bagging, filling bag bins,  
carrying out orders, returning shop backs, picking up carts, parcel pickup, bottle  
returns and general store cleaning, excluding waxing and buffing of store floors.  
### D. VIOLATIONS PROVISIONS  
1) First violation within a store; the Union will have the right to issue a written  
warning.  
2) Second violation within the same store; Union will have the right to grieve  
for back pay.  
3) Third violation within the same store; the Union will have the right to elim-  
inate the Customer Service Attendants position and all Customer Service  
Attendants in that particular store will be promoted to regular part time clerk.  
### 14.6 DEPARTMENT MANAGERS  
A. The Employer agrees to the establishment of the following uniform classifications:  
Assistant Manager  
Produce Manager  
Head Dairy Clerk  
Head Cashier (front-end)  
1) In stores with a volume of $60,000.00 there shall be one (1) rated classification.  
2) In stores with a volume of $60,000.00 to 100,000.00 there shall be two (2)  
rated classifications.  
3) In stores with a volume of 100,000.00 and over there shall be four (4) rated  
classifications.  
4) Store volume to be determined on basis of six (6) consecutive months.  
5) When reduction of store volume permits certain classifications in stores to  
be eliminated, the affected employees shall be removed only by attrition.  
B. The following Department Managers are to receive an additional sixty  
($.60) cents hourly premium: Customer Service Representative and Frozen Food  
Manager in stores with an average weekly volume of $275,000 or more, General  
Merchandise Manager, in store with an average weekly volume of $35,000 in  
16  
general merchandise sales. Bakery Manager in stores with an oven and proofer  
will receive a seventy-five cent ($.75) hourly premium.  
C. Scan Coordinator: The scan coordinator will receive a sixty ($.60) cents per  
hour premium. Those currently assigned as scan coordinators prior to 01/26/97  
will remain in this position and current Full Time/Part Time status. Newly creat-  
ed scan coordinators will be selected by the same bid procedures as all other  
department heads. The parties agree that any store greater than 40,000 square feet  
will utilize a Full Time scan position.  
D. Pharmacy Technician: Acme will have the right to select based on skill,  
experience, training and needs of the business. No bumping from outside classi-  
fication except for purposes of layoff. Classification will carry a .30¢ per hour  
premium. Those currently assigned to the Pharmacy will be red circled unless the  
parties mutually agree to a transfer.  
E. When any department manager or an employee in a higher rated job is absent  
from work for vacations, illness and temporary absences of three (3) days or more,  
they shall be replaced by another full time employee who shall be paid in accor-  
dance with the rates noted in this Article from the first day of replacement.  
### 14.7 DEPARTMENT HEAD REWARD SYSTEM  
A. During the second full payroll week in December of each year the follow-  
ing Department Head Reward Payments will be issued. Where more than one  
employee has been appointed to these classifications during the year, except  
employees filling in for vacations or short-term illness, pro rata payments will be  
made to each eligible employee.  
### AVERAGE ANNUAL  
### B. POSITION WEEKLY VOLUME PAYMENT  
Assistant Manager $400,000 $1,000.00  
Produce Manager $40,000 (in produce sales) $1,000.00  
Head Cashier $400,000 $250.00  
Head Dairy Clerk $400,000 $250.00  
### ARTICLE 15  
### HOURS AND OVERTIME  
15.1 Employees will be given opportunity to advise their Store Director of their  
preference for early/late, morning, afternoon or evening hour schedule. On a regular  
17  
and continuous basis the Store Director shall attempt to accommodate these requests  
based on employee seniority and subject to business requirements.  
15.2 The basic straight time work for full time employees shall consist of forty (40)  
hours to be worked in five (5) eight (8) hour days, Monday through Saturday, (except  
Philadelphia Division employees hired after January 23, 1993, whose work week  
shall be Sunday through Saturday). By mutual agreement and/or for purposes of cre-  
ating a full time job, employees may be scheduled three (3) eight (8) hour days, one  
(1) six (6) and one (1) ten (10) hour day.  
15.3 Work between 5:00 a.m. (4:00 a.m. by mutual agreement) and 6:00 p.m.  
shall be at the straight time rate of pay, except as provided below.  
15.4 Employer may schedule full time employees to work straight time night(s)  
within the forty hour (40) work week as follows:  
### A. PHILADELPHIA DIVISION  
### HIRED/PROMOTED NUMBER OF NIGHTS  
Before 9/9/73 One (1) to 10:00 p.m. to 1:00 am by mutual  
agreement, includes employees reduced to  
part time before September 9, 1973 and later  
restored to full time.  
Between 9/9/73 and 3/29/87 Two (2) to 12:00 Midnight,  
1:00 by mutual agreement.  
After 3/29/87 Three (3) to 1:00 a.m. except when the needs  
of the business may require up to five (5)  
nights which will be rotated and scheduled  
by inverse seniority.  
### B. ALLENTOWN/READING DIVISION  
### HIRED/PROMOTED NUMBER OF NIGHTS  
Before 9/9/73 One (1) to 10:00 p.m. to 1:00 am by mutual  
agreement, includes employees reduced to  
part time before September 9, 1973 and later  
restored to full time.  
Between 9/9/73 and 11/2/86 Two (2) to 12:00 Midnight,  
1:00 by mutual agreement.  
After 11/2/86 Any number of nights to 1:00 a.m.  
18  
15.5 The straight time work week for part time employees shall be Monday  
through Saturday, (except those Philadelphia Division Employees hired after  
January 23, 1993 whose work week shall be Sunday through Saturday), 5:00  
a.m., (4:00 a.m. by mutual agreement) to 12:00 Midnight (1:00 a.m. by mutual  
agreement), except Sunday to 2:00 a.m., up to a maximum of thirty five (35)  
hours per week.  
15.6 Time and one half (11/2) shall be paid to part time employees for hours in  
excess of thirty-five (35) hours and for work in excess of eight (8) hours in one  
(1) day, and for work in excess of five (5) days in any work week.  
15.7 Employees may be scheduled to work up to thirty (30) minutes after store  
closing within the straight time limit for full and part time employees.  
15.8 Employees regularly and continuously assigned to night crew shall  
receive a premium for actual hours worked as follows:  
### A. PHILADELPHIA DIVISION:  
|. Employees assigned to night crew before January 23, 1993:  
a) Up to three (3) years, ten percent (10%) of basic straight time hourly rate of pay.  
b) Three (3) to six (6) years, eleven percent (11%) of basic straight time hourly  
rate of pay.  
c) Six (6) or more years, twelve percent (12%), of basic straight time hourly  
rate of pay.  
2. Employees regularly assigned to night crew on or after January 23, 1993:  
A premium of ten percent (10%) of basic straight time hourly rate of pay.  
3. The maximum amount payable under the night crew premium calculation  
will be one dollar and seventy cents ($1.70) per hour.  
### B. ALLENTOWN DIVISION  
1. Employees assigned to night crew before November 2, 1986:  
a) Up to three (3) years, ten percent (10%) of basic straight time hourly rate of pay.  
19  
b) Three (3) to six (6) years, eleven percent (11%) of basic straight time hourly  
rate of pay.  
c) Six (6) or more years, twelve percent (12%), of basic straight time hourly  
rate of pay.  
2. Employees assigned to night crew after November 2, 1986:  
a) Fifty cents ($.50) per hour or ten percent (10%) of their basic straight time  
payroll rate, whichever is the lesser for actual hours worked on night crew.  
### C. READING DIVISION  
a.) Fifty cents ($.50) per hour or ten percent (10%) of their basic straight time  
payroll rate, whichever is the lesser for actual hours worked on night crew.  
15.9 The employee in charge and responsible for the work of the Night Crew  
shall receive an additional premium of [Philadelphia Division - Twenty dollars  
($20.00) and Allentown/Reading Division - Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per week].  
Employee filling in for this position for more than one (1) scheduled night in a  
week shall receive one-fifth (1/Sth) of the rate per night.  
15.10 Part-time employees may be assigned on a night crew shift of at least  
eight (8) hours per night up to four (4) nights at the straight time rate plus the  
applicable night premium.  
15.11Part-time employees may work any combination of day, evening, or night  
hours in the same work week provided there are no split shifts.  
15.12 Full time employees assigned to the night crew (prior to July 29, 1984,  
for Philadelphia Division and prior to November 2, 1986 for Allentown/Reading  
Division) shall receive two (2) consecutive work nights off, one (1) of which shall  
be Sunday (10:00 p.m. Saturday to 9:00 a.m. Sunday).  
15.13 Consistent with the above, to meet the needs of the business, part time  
employees may be scheduled by inverse seniority to the night crew shift. They  
will not lose day hours as a result of accepting or not accepting night crew work.  
15.14 Night crew shift may not start before 10:00 p.m. and finish no later than  
9:00 a.m. Full time night crew clerks may be scheduled to work five (5) eight (8)  
hour nights, three (3) nights, two (2) days or three (3) days and two (2) nights on  
a regular basis. Also by mutual agreement they may work four (4) ten (10) hour  
20  
nights and they may start work on Sunday at 10:00 p.m. at the straight time rate.  
15.15 There shall be no pyramiding of overtime or premium pay. Hours worked  
at premium pay on Sunday and holidays shall not be included in the computation  
of weekly overtime.  
15.16 All meals periods may not be less than thirty (30) minutes nor more than  
one (1) hour. When required on a regular basis and upon the request of the  
employee, the meal period will be one (1) hour.  
15.17 There shall be no split shifts worked by any employee.  
15.18 Employees working more than six (6) hours in a work day shall receive  
two (2) daily rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, without loss of pay, one to  
be in the first half and one to the second half of the work day, as near as possible  
to the middle of the shift. Employees working six (6) hours or less shall receive  
one (1) fifteen (15) minute rest period as near as possible to the middle of the shift.  
15.19 Part time employees shall receive a guarantee of four (4) hours per day,  
when scheduled, and a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week, provided the  
employee is available on a regular and continuous basis. The weekly minimum  
is not applicable to probationary employees, students, and employees holding  
another job.  
15.20 A daily working schedule for each employee shall be prepared in ink and  
posted in a conspicuous place by Friday noon of the week preceding the week for  
which the schedule is effective.  
15.21 Upon agreement with the Store Director and employee, exceptions to the  
provisions of this Article may be made, which shall be reduced to writing and  
approved by the Union.  
15.22 Representatives of Acme Markets, Inc. and Local Union No. 1776, agree  
to meet and review and work out schedule changes between locations for the pur-  
pose of maximizing senior part time employee hours.  
15.23 The above procedure will also apply in an effort to prevent major lay-  
offs or reduction in full time employees to part time due to store closing.  
### 15.24 REASONABLE HOURS PROVISIONS  
A. The Union and the Company recognize the need for employees to be available  
a reasonable number of hours. On a quarterly basis the Company will produce a  
list of employees who work less than an average of 20 hours per week (including  
Sundays, holidays, vacations, etc.)  
B. The Union and the Company will use its best efforts to encourage those  
employees to make themselves available for an average of 20 hours per week  
or more, consistent with current contract provisions.  
C. The Company agrees it will make an effort to hire only employees who will  
be available an average of 20 hours or more per week.  
D. The parties agree to establish a task force to attempt to reduce benefit costs  
from 5.15 percent of sales to 4.10 percent of sales.  
### ARTICLE 16  
### SUNDAY WORK  
16.1 For work performed on Sunday the following premiums shall apply:  
A. Philadelphia Division:  
1.) All full time employees and other employees, except CSA’s hired before  
January 24, 1993: Time and one half (11/2) their straight time hourly rate.  
2.) All other employees hired on or after January 24, 1993 will be eligible for  
premium noted -below:  
Start $1.00 per hour  
After 12 months $2.00 per hour  
After 24 months $3.00 per hour  
After 36 months $4.00 per hour  
B. Allentown/Reading Division  
bh  
ne  
1.) All full ttme employees and other employees hired before November 2, 1986:  
Time and one half (11/2) their straight time hourly rate.  
2.) Employees hired after November 2, 1986:  
Two dollar ($2.00) per hour premium.  
3.) Employees hired after January 23, 1993 will receive:  
Start $1.00  
After 36 Months $2.00  
16.2 Sunday work shall be rotated by classification, among those who are qual-  
ified to perform the work as determined by the Employer.  
16.3 All employees scheduled for Sunday work will be scheduled for a mini-  
mum of four (4) hours.  
### ARTICLE 17  
### HOLIDAYS  
17.1 Work performed on the legal holidays shall be compensated at one and one-  
half time (11/2x) the straight time hourly rate, in addition to the straight time holi-  
day pay.  
17.2 Upon the completion of thirty (30) days service with the Employer, full time  
employees shall be eligible for eight (8) hours pay. Upon the completion of sixty  
(60) days, but less than one (1) year of continuous service part time employees shall  
be paid four (4) hours holiday pay provided the holiday falls on a day they would  
normally be scheduled. Part time employees with one (1) or more years of service  
regardless of whether or not they are scheduled to work shall receive four (4) hours  
holiday pay. All employees must work the scheduled day before and after the hol-  
iday, Sunday excepted. Part time employees must work one (1) day during the hol-  
iday week. Schedules will not be changed to avoid holiday pay.  
17.3 The following holidays or the day observed as such shall be celebrated:  
New Year’s Day Labor Day  
Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day  
Fourth of July Christmas Day  
17.4 When requested, employees may schedule a personal holiday to celebrate  
Dr. Martin Luther King’s birthday. Employer shall receive two (2) weeks notice,  
the day off shall be granted on a seniority basis within the store. Based on the  
needs of the business, temporary transfers will be arranged to meet scheduling  
needs of the stores.  
17.5 Upon the completion of three (3) months service with the Employer, all  
Zo  
regular full time employees shall be entitled to three (3) personal holidays of eight  
(8) hours. One holiday shall be taken in each four month period, selection will be  
by mutual agreement and restricted to the first four working days of the week,  
A. Part time clerks hired before [Philadelphia Division - J uly 29, 1984:  
Allentown/Reading Division - November 2, 1986] shall be entitled to three (3)  
personal holidays (four (4) hours each ) each calendar year, which may be taken  
in accordance with the same conditions as noted for full time employees.  
B. Part time clerks hired after [Philadelphia Division - July 29, 1984:  
Allentown/Reading Division - November 2, 1986] shall upon the completion of  
[one (1) year of service - Philadelphia Division: three (3) months of service -  
Allentown/Reading Division] receive one (1) personal holiday of four (4) hours  
each calendar year, scheduling will be under terms noted above.  
17.6 All time worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours for full time (twenty-  
four (24) hours for employees who have Sunday in their work week -  
Philadelphia Division), and thirty one (31) hours for part time employees shall be  
compensated at the rate of time and one-half (11/2) the straight time hourly pay.  
17.7 In a week which includes any of these holidays, the work week for full  
time employees shall be thirty two (32) hours of work in four (4) days, however  
by mutual agreement employees may work forty (40) hours at straight time, plus  
holiday pay. By mutual agreement a part time employee may work thirty-five  
(35) hours at straight time, plus holiday pay.  
17.8 Holiday work will be offered by seniority with the least senior qualified  
employee being required to work.  
17.9 The Employer may open the stores on Christmas Day for business. In the  
event the employer is open on Christmas, under no circumstances will any  
employee be required or compelled to work. The stores will be staffed by volun-  
teers only. Those employees who do volunteer to work on Christmas will be paid  
for all hours worked on Christmas Day at double time (2x).  
### ARTICLE 18  
### VACATIONS  
18.1 The Employer will grant a paid vacation, as set forth below and subject to  
the conditions under Section B of this Article to eligible employees.  
### SECTION A - TYPES OF VACATION GRANTS:  
   
### LENGTH OF CONTINUOUS  
### ON THE JOB SERVICE  
1.) More than three (3)  
months but less than  
one (1) year on May 1  
of the calendar year.  
to May 1.  
2.) One (1) year or more  
but less than three (3)  
years on May 1 of the  
calendar year.  
3.) Three (3) Years or more  
but less than eight (8) years  
on the Saturday nearest  
September 30th of the calendar  
year.  
4.) Eight (8) years or more  
but less than fourteen (14)  
years on the Saturday  
nearest September 30th  
of the calendar year.  
5.) Fourteen (14) years or  
more but less than twenty  
(20) years on the Saturday  
nearest September 30th  
of the calendar year.  
6.) Twenty (20) years  
or more on the Saturday  
nearest September  
30th of the calendar  
year.  
### REGULAR FULL  
### TIME EMPLOYEE  
1/12th of a week’s  
basic straight time  
wage for each full  
month’s service prior  
One (1) Week  
Two (2) Weeks  
Three (3) Weeks  
Four (4) Weeks  
Five (5) Weeks  
### REGULAR PART  
### TIME EMPLOYEE  
### NONE  
The number  
of weekly hours  
normally worked.  
Twice the number  
of weekly hours  
normally worked.  
Thrice the number  
of weekly hours  
normally worked.  
Quadruple the  
number of weekly  
hours normally  
worked.  
Five times the  
number of weekly  
hours normally  
worked.  
i)  
Ca  
### SECTION B - CONDITIONS  
1.) For vacation purposes only, a regular full time employee is defined as one  
who is regularly and continuously scheduled to work at least forty (40) hours a  
week; a part time employee is one who works less than forty (40) hours per week.  
2.) The “vacation period” shall be defined as being May | through the Saturday  
nearest to September 30th, except that the third, fourth and fifth weeks vacation  
will be scheduled as business operations permit.  
3.) Employees who are eligible for three (3) or more weeks of vacation may  
schedule one (1) week of vacation in days with the mutual consent of the Store  
Director. These days may not be scheduled the day before or the day after a  
scheduled holiday or vacation.  
4.) Unused vacation grant may not be carried over to the next year.  
5.) All vacation pay shall be calculated on the employee’s straight time hourly  
rate, which shall include a fixed night differential.  
6.) Eligible employees who have changed from a part time to a regular full time  
basis or vice-versa, will be entitled to a vacation grant consisting of the weekly  
credits earned for part time service and monthly credits for full time work during  
the vacation year.  
7.) Vacation selections will be granted on a seniority basis, where possible.  
Vacation schedules must be arranged so as not to interfere with the efficient con-  
duct of the business.  
8.) Based on the needs of business vacation grants up to and including two (2)  
weeks will be in consecutive days within the vacation period.  
9.) Employees whose vacations includes a paid holiday may be granted one (1)  
day’s pay or an additional day of vacation, which would be scheduled immedi-  
ately before or after the vacation.  
10.) Eligible employees absent from work due to on the job (Worker’s  
Compensation) injury sustained during the year will be entitled to their vacation  
grant for that particular vacation year.  
11.) Eligible employees absent from work due to non-occupational accident  
and sickness, for a cumulative period not to exceed six (6) months (6/12ths) with-  
26  
in the vacation year will be entitled to their vacation grant for that particular vaca-  
tion year.  
12.) In the event of absence in excess of six (6) months, employees will be enti-  
tled to six twelfths (6/12ths) of the annual vacation grant, plus one twelfth  
(1/12th) for each full month actively on the job during the vacation year.  
13.) Employee entering the U.S. Armed Forces will be paid their earned pro  
rata vacation grant through the last day of the month of active employment.  
a.) Employee veterans who re-entered the Employer’s service within the vaca-  
tion period will be paid the full amount of their vacation grant as of the date of  
their scheduled vacation.  
b.) Employee veterans returning after the final day of vacation period will  
become eligible for the payment of the full amount of their vacation grant in the  
next vacation period.  
c.) Employee on the job service interrupted by induction in the U.S. Armed  
Forces will be considered as continuous in determining length of continuous on  
the job service.  
### ARTICLE 19  
### MISCELLANEOUS WORKING CONDITIONS  
19.1 The Employer will furnish all uniforms required to be worn in the store.  
Employees shall launder drip-dry uniforms.  
19.2 The Company agrees that changes to the dress code will be reviewed with  
the Union and subject to negotiations.  
19.3 No employee handling cash shall be held responsible for any shortage  
(being cash or cash equivalent) unless:  
A. The employee is given their own register till.  
B. The employee is given the opportunity to count their own cash and to initial  
the checker accountability readings at the beginning and close of the work day, to  
count all pickups and receive a receipt, and review their final balance report (if  
requested).  
C. Only one employee shall be permitted to ring up on the cash drawer for  
which the clerk is responsible.  
D. The employee has failed to secure the register when it is not in use.  
19.4. All privileges not covered shall continue as before and shall not be elim-  
inated by virtue of the signing of this Agreement.  
19.5. Time clocks and time recording devices will be provided in all stores.  
A. The employer and the Union agree that all employees must punch their time  
card and that a proven violation of established time clock rules, including work-  
ing before punching in or after punching out, may subject such an employee to  
disciplinary action up to and including discharge.  
B. Furthermore, all time during which an employee is suffered or permitted to  
work or is required to be on duty or on the Employer’s premises or at a given  
work place shall be considered hours worked, and recorded on the time cards.  
19.6 If a physical examination or health permit is required by the Employer or  
Local Government, the cost of the examination or permit shall be borne by the  
Employer.  
19.7 No employee shall be required to take a polygraph test (lie detector) or any  
other similar examination.  
19.8 A. Should the Employer intend to substitute scanning checkout systems  
for existing equipment in any store, the Employer agrees to notify the Union in  
advance and to provide the Union with a list of all employees regularly assigned  
to the store on the effective date of the utilization of said system.  
B. Said employees shall not be removed from the Employer’s payroll as a result  
of the installation of such a system. Employees may continue to be transferred,  
assigned to other work, or laid off in accordance with the seniority provisions of  
this Agreement provided the layoff is for reasons other than the installation of  
such a system.  
19.9 During the term of this Agreement special addendums may be added to  
address non-profitable and experimental stores.  
19.10 Coffee Bar Staffing: In order to implement and develop new full service  
Coffee Bars, non-checker qualified clerks may be assigned to the coffee bar and  
28  
will not be subject to bumping by checker qualified clerks for the purpose of  
maximizing hours or preferred schedules provided they are assigned to work  
exclusively in that department.  
By mutual agreement the parties may extend the terms above to other newly  
created service departments.  
### ARTICLE 20  
### HIRING EMPLOYEES  
20.1 Employer may hire employees from any source. Employees with individ-  
ual recall rights shall have first preference. Union has right to refer applicants,  
who shall not be rejected by the employer for arbitrary or capricious reasons.  
20.2 The first sixty (60) days of employment shall be considered a probationary peri-  
od. Employer may discipline or terminate any employee for any reason whatsoever  
within the first sixty (60) days of employment and there shall be no right of appeal.  
20.3 The parties agree that there may be circumstances where applicants with  
similar prior experience in the area supermarket industry may need to be hired in  
classifications and/or wage/fringe benefits levels other than available new hires.  
The Employer and the Union will agree on any intent to implement this section, and  
such agreement will be reduced to writing and maintained in the Employee’s file.  
20.4 In the event marketplace conditions, competition, and/or state or federal  
minimum wage provisions should change during the term of this Agreement, the  
parties may agree to a modification in the wage rates. Such changes or modifi-  
cations will be in writing and approved by the Executive Board of the Union.  
20.5 All employees hired after ratification of this Agreement shall be given credit  
for previous similar supermarket retail food store experience acquired within four (4)  
years of the time in which application for employment is made, provided this expe-  
rience is declared at the time of application for employment is made. However, the  
basic rate of pay as determined by the application of this clause shall not exceed the  
maximum rate of pay, which was paid in acquiring the previous experience.  
Article 21  
### Union Stewards, Enforcement of Standards  
21.1 The Union will use its best efforts to secure as stewards a high caliber of  
29  
employee, who shall be required to conform to the standards and qualifications  
required by the Union and the Employer. Union Stewards shall be the last to be laid  
off within their full or part time classification if reasonably able to perform the work.  
21.2 The Union shall furnish the Employer with a complete list of the stewards,  
which list shall be supplemented from time to time as necessary.  
21.3 The Union shall do everything within its power to enforce the rules and  
regulations of the Employer and through advice, instructions and example to  
maintain the highest standard of work.  
21.4 The Union shall furnish to the Employer at least one (1) official Union  
Emblem for each of the Employer’s stores covered by the Agreement, to be dis-  
played in the customer area of the premises. Such official emblems shall remain  
the property of and shall be surrendered to the Union on demand.  
21.5 The stewards or other individual employees covered hereby shall not be  
considered agents of the Union for the purpose of calling strikes or slowdowns.  
21.6 No transfers will be made without the consent of the Union, which shall  
not be withheld for arbitrary or capricious reasons.  
21.7 Full time shop stewards shall be entitled to thirty-two (32) hours of leave  
and part time shop stewards to sixteen (16) hours of leave in each calendar year  
with pay for Shop Steward Training and Education. The Union will give the  
Employer two (2) weeks advance notice. The Shop Steward must upon returning  
from the leave present the Store Director with written evidence from the Union  
that the Steward has used the leave for the purpose for which it was intended.  
21.8 Any person designated as a steward by the Union shall receive any and all  
rights, benefits, duties and privileges of such position and the Union agrees not  
to designate more than one (1) person per store unless such store is regularly open  
twelve (12) or more hours per day where the limit will be two (2) persons, one of  
which shall be part time (or alternate).  
21.9 In addition to the other benefits for stewards, e.g. 32 hours yearly paid  
training for full time and 16 hours for part time, they shall have in order to ensure  
continuous enforcement of this Agreement, super-seniority for layoffs, vacation  
schedules and shifts, provided in the latter instance, it shall be applied only where  
mutually agreeable to Employer, based upon the qualifications and availability of  
such steward.  
30)  
### ARTICLE 22  
### HEALTH AND WELFARE  
22.1 During the term of this Agreement the Employer agrees to contribute to  
the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1776 and Participating  
Employers Health and Welfare Fund. A summary of Plans J, I, II, II, and IV is  
located in Exhibit 4.  
22.2 Effective May 1, 2005 the rates of contributions shall be for Part Time  
employees hired prior to January 23, 2000 and all Customer Service Attendants  
and Full Time employees:  
A. Philadelphia Division  
Plan Eligibility  
Part Time  
Plan I 6 Months through 2 Years  
Plan I After 2 Years Service  
Full Time  
Plan II 6 Months through 4 Years  
of Full Time Service  
Plan [V After 4 Years Full Time Service  
Customer Service Attendants  
Plan J After 6 Months Service  
B. Allentown/Reading Division  
Plan Eligibility  
Part Time  
Plan I 6 Months through 2 Years  
Plan I After 2 Years Service  
Full Time  
Plan UI 6 Months through 4 Years  
of Full Time Service  
Plan [V After 4 Years Full Time Service  
Customer Service Attendants  
Plan J After 6 Months Service  
Rate of Contribution  
$176.32  
$818.02  
$1150.91  
$1201.88  
83.15  
Rate of Contribution  
$176.32  
$676.91  
$1150.91  
$942.77  
$83.15  
CSA’s promoted to the Clerk classification shall receive credit for the Clerk  
contribution based on their original hire date.  
C. (1) Effective 1/1/06 modify Employer contribution rates as follows:  
After 6 months  
After 18 months  
After 30 months  
After 42 months  
After 48 months  
For Employees hired  
After 1/23/00 thru 12/3/05  
$135.29  
$270.57  
$473.49  
$595.25  
$642.60  
Employee Payments  
After 6 months  
After 18 months  
After 30 months  
After 42 months  
After 48 months  
Single  
0.00  
0.00  
5.00  
5.00  
none  
£  
8  
5  
ipa  
$2  
$1  
For Employees  
hired after 12/3/05  
$117.25  
$234.49  
$410.35  
$515.88  
$556.92  
Family  
$150.00  
$120.00  
$80.00  
$50.00  
none  
(2) Maintenance of Benefits increase shall be applied only to the Employer  
contributions each May Ist.  
(3) The Employer agrees to weekly payroll deduction of premium co-payments  
for part time employees hired on or after 01/23/00.  
(4) All Employees hired on or after 01/23/00 will receive Plan II at forty-eight  
(48) months, and there will be no requirement as of forty-eight (48) months for  
employee premium co-payments. (Exhibit 4).  
(5) Benefits for employees hired after 01/23/00 will be provided as described  
in the attached memo from AON dated 10/14/99.  
(6) Benefit schedules will remain the same unless the parties mutually agree to  
modify plans and/or eligibility.  
D. The terms of the Agreement of the parties identified as UFCW Local 1776  
and Contributing Employers Health and Welfare Fund and Acme Markets execut-  
ed on February 8, 2002 is incorporated as if fully set forth herein, including but  
32  
not limited to, the annual 10% cap on MOB rates effective on May Ist of each  
year. In accordance with the 2/8/02 M.O.B. agreement the employer will increase  
contributions by up to ten (10%) each May first of this agreement. The supple-  
mental reserve contribution provision of the 2/8/02 agreement will be waived for  
the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
E. Effective 10/1/05 the current Personal Choice plans provided in Plans I], II  
and IV will be changed to “Personal Choice C1-F1-01". A summary of this plan  
is contained in Exhibit 5 of this Agreement.  
F. During negotiation for this Successor Agreement the parties have discussed  
cost containment initiatives including but not limited to the following:  
1. Prescription plan formulary  
Spouse and dependent coverage for part time employees hired after a  
certain date being considered supplemental by making the Duel Income  
Option mandatory if other benefit coverage ia available.  
Expanding the Choice Plan  
Establishing Health Care spending or reimbursement accounts  
The parties agree to continue discussions relevant to establishing and  
transitioning to a defined contribution retiree health & welfare plan  
(DCR plan) for certain current and future full time employees.  
lA Ww  
If mutually agreed to by the bargaining parties these and other cost containment  
issues may be implemented in order to ensure the integrity of the plan on behalf  
of the Members.  
G. Health and Welfare Fund Eligibility - the following provisions will become  
effective 1/1/06:  
In order to be eligible for benefits, full time employees must work or be paid  
for and average of 120 hours per month in any rolling two month period. Part  
time employees must work or be paid for an average of 56 hours per month in any  
rolling two month period. The parties agree to the terms of the memo in adden-  
dum I of this agreement regarding administration of this section.  
22.3 The parties agree to revise the current maintenance of benefits (“MOB”)  
memorandum of agreement to provide that Acme shall increase contributions to  
the Fund to maintain the current level of benefits and to maintain a minimum fund  
reserve which shall be at least four months of operating expenses for the Fund.  
Such contribution increases shall be determined by the Fund actuary. Furthermore  
this will include the terms of the Independence Blue Cross and Pennsylvania Blue  
33  
Shield (IBS-PSB) contract approved by the fund trustees on October 30, 1995 in  
respect to the medical portion of the maintenance of benefits costs.  
22.4 Beginning with the M.O.B. increase if 05/01/01, any unused M.O.B.  
increase percentage may be rolled forward on a cumulative basis and used in  
future years in addition to the maximum M.O.B. for that particular year provided  
the M.O.B. increase in any given year does not exceed twelve (12%) percent.  
22.5 Contributions for part time employees upgraded to full time will be  
required the first of the month following upgrading. For newly hired full time  
employees contributions will be required the first of the month following comple-  
tion of six (6) months of service. Contributions for part time employees and bag-  
gers will be required the first of the month following completion of six (6) months  
of continuous service. Employees will be eligible for contributions if they have  
actual hours worked during the previous month. Hours worked shall include time  
paid for reasons such as vacation, personal holiday, funeral and jury leave.  
22.6 The Plan shall conform to the legal requirements of the law, both State and  
Federal. It shall include coverage under New Jersey Temporary Disability Law.  
22.7 The Health and Welfare Fund and Plan shall be governed by a Board of  
Trustees consisting of equal numbers from the employers and the Unions.  
22.8 An eligible full time employee who is reduced to part time status shall  
continue to receive Health and Welfare Benefits for a period of six (6) months fol-  
lowing his reduction in status.  
22.9 In the event any benefits provided by the contribution required under the terms  
of this Article are at any time in the future provided in full or in part, individually or  
collectively, by any other source as a result of Federal or other legislation, the contri-  
bution applicable to the benefit provided by such legislation shall be applied, com-  
mencing with the effective date of such legislation in the following manner:  
A. First: In the case of Employers who do not also participate in the United  
Food and Commercial Workers Union and Participating Food Industry Employers  
Tri State Pension Fund, contributions applicable to the benefit replaced by legis-  
lation shall be applied to offset any operating deficit in the Welfare Fund or, if no  
deficit then exists, to increase the reserves of the Welfare Fund.  
B. Second: In the case of Employers who participate in the United Food and  
Commercial Workers Union and Participating Food Industry Employers Tri State  
Pension Fund, contributions applicable to the benefits replaced by legislation  
shall be applied to offset any operating deficit in the Welfare Fund and if any of  
34  
such amounts so released are not required to offset the operating deficit of the  
Welfare Fund, the remainder shall be added to then current Pension contribution  
rate to accelerate the payments of Past Service Costs.  
22.10 It is agreed that all questions involving Health and Welfare not specifi-  
cally set forth herein shall be determined by the provisions of the Agreement and  
Declaration of Trust governing the Plan.  
22.11 It is understood that the parties agreeing to the provisions of this Article -  
Health and Welfare - have waived any option with regard to HMO consideration,  
22.12 The parties have agreed to the Flexible Benefits Plan and the 40 1(k)  
Savings and Retirement Plan as provided in the attached Amendment to the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 23  
### PENSION PROVISIONS  
23.1 The Employer shall contribute to the United Food and Commercial Workers and  
Participating Food Industry Employers Tri State Pension Fund for eligible employees  
in accordance with Appendix “E” of the Fund, as follows. Employees will be eligible  
for contributions if they have actual hours worked during the previous month, hours  
worked shall include time paid for vacations, personal holiday, funeral and jury leave.  
A. Full Time Employees. First of the month following completion of ninety  
(90) Days of continuous full time service. There shall be no more than twelve  
such monthly contributions during any twelve consecutive calendar months.  
90 Days to 4 Years $ 125.00  
4 Years to 10 Years $ 188.00  
Over 10 Years $ 214.00  
B. Part Time Employees. First of the month following completion of ninety (90)  
days of continuous service. For C.S.A’s/Baggers the first of the month following  
completion of six (6) months of continuous service. There shall be no more than  
twelve such monthly contributions during any twelve consecutive calendar months.  
90 Days (or 6 Months for CSA’s) to 4 Years $ 15.00  
4 Years to 10 Years $ 47.00  
Over 10 Years $ 59.00  
A summary of the Pension Plan may be found in Exhibit 5.  
C. Baggers promoted to the Clerk classification shall receive credit for the  
Clerk contribution based on their original hire date.  
23.2 For purposes of this paragraph a full time employee is defined as an employ-  
ee who is regularly and continuously scheduled to work a forty (40) hour week.  
23.3 It is further understood and agreed that the Pension Plan as amended shall  
be considered as Appendix I of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust.  
23.4 The industry wide Pension Plan as adopted must have the continuing  
approval of the Internal Revenue Service as an exempt plan.  
23.5 It is agreed that all questions involving pensions not specifically set forth  
herein shall be determined by the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of  
Trust governing Plan.  
23.6 The parties agree to modify paragraph 1 of Exhibit 6 of the current  
Agreement in accordance with the 12/18/03 resolution of the Pension trustees and  
the 6/17/04 Cheiron letter which are contained in attachments A and B, of this  
agreement. These terms may be further modified by mutual agreement of the bar-  
gaining parties.  
### ARTICLE 24  
### STORE CLOSING  
24.1 Employer shall give the Union twenty (20) days advance written notice  
when it intends to close permanently or dispose of any store or group of stores,  
except where a closed store will be replaced.  
24.2 The parties agree to meet as soon as possible to negotiate the effect of the  
store(s) closing on employees.  
24.3 If the Employer fails to give notice, all affected employees shall be paid  
their regular weekly pay for the period between the notice and the twenty (20)  
days before the closing. Also appropriate monthly contributions will be made to  
the Health and Welfare and Pension Funds for the same period.  
24.4 The Union agrees to maintain this information as confidential. It will only be  
used for purposes of negotiations and any assistance given to the affected employees.  
36  
### ARTICLE 25  
### NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS  
25.1 The parties agree that there shall be no authorized strikes, stoppages of  
work, slowdowns, lockout or any other interferences of whatever nature during  
the life of this Agreement.  
25.2 Nothing herein contained, however, shall compel any employee to walk  
through a picket line set up by Philadelphia Teamsters Locals Nos. 500, 169,  
Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers Locals No. 6 and United Food and  
Commercial Workers Union Locals No. 56, 27(1349), 1358 and 1360; provided  
said strike has received written approval of the International Unions affiliated  
with the Local Unions indicated above.  
25.3 In the event of a threat of, preparation for, or the actuality of a unauthorized  
work stoppage, walk out or strike, the Union and all of its officials will take every  
reasonable action to prevent and to stop such proceedings by any of its members.  
### ARTICLE 26  
### SEPARABILITY  
26.1 Should any article,, part or paragraph of this Agreement be declared by a  
Federal or State Court of competent and final jurisdiction in the premises to be  
unlawful, invalid, ineffective or unenforceable, said Article, part or paragraph shall  
not affect the validity and enforceability of any other Article, part or paragraph  
hereof, and the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.  
### ARTICLE 27  
### JOB SECURITY  
27.1 Philadelphia Division employees with four (4) or more years of service  
hired prior to March 3, 1997, calculated each year from their anniversary date of  
employment, shall not be laid off or reduced from full to part time for the dura-  
tion of this Agreement provided that:  
A. The employee is qualified and continuously available to perform the avail-  
able work consistent with the provisions of Article 8 - Seniority.  
B. This provision will not be valid in unusual situations beyond the employer’s  
a7  
control, such as fire, flood or a catastrophe affecting several of the employer’s facil-  
ities. Store closings for business reasons shall not be construed as a catastrophe.  
C. Neither shall this provision apply in case of a strike against the Employer in  
the area covered by Article 25 of this Agreement. In case of a strike by one or  
more U.F.C.W. Local Unions in this jurisdiction this provision will not apply for  
the duration of the strike.  
D. If the number of stores covered by this Agreement at the time of its ratifica-  
tion is reduced by any means by more than 50% or more, this no lay-off provi-  
sion shall have no force and effect. Any full-time employees reduced to part-time  
shall be guaranteed the maximum part-time employment of 35 hours per week.  
27.2 First right of offer language in event of a sale of Acme Markets consistent  
with discussion by the parties relating to notification and confidentiality.  
27.3 Effective 1/1/2006 a minimum of 24% full-time employment shall be  
maintained and effective 1/1/2007, a minimum of 23% full-time employment  
shall be maintained. The specified reductions in the minimum full-time percent-  
age may only be achieved through attrition, and thus under no circumstances may  
they be achieved through any type of forced reduction or layoff of personnel.  
### ARTICLE 28  
### LANGUAGE SIMPLIFICATION  
28.1 In accordance with the intent of the parties to reduce formalities, the lan-  
guage of this Collective Bargaining Agreement has been simplified. This simpli-  
fication, however, was undertaken for the purposes of making the Agreement  
more easily read and understandable, and was not intended to change the mean-  
ing of the language. Therefore, with the exception of that language which was  
changed as a result of newly negotiated terms, which shall be interpreted as stat-  
ed, where a dispute arises over otherwise simplified language, the language set  
forth in the replaced agreement may be referred to for purposes of interpretation.  
### ARTICLE 29  
### HOUSING TRUST FUND  
29.1 Effective February 1, 1997, the Employer agrees to contribute one dollar  
($1.00) per Full time employee and fifty cents ($.50) per Part time employee per  
month to the U.F.C.W. Local 1776 Housing Trust Fund.  
38  
### ARTICLE 30  
### DURATION OF AGREEMENT  
30.1 This Agreement shall be effective from February 6, 2005 and shall con-  
tinue in full force and effect through February 2, 2008 and shall continue from  
year to year thereafter unless or until either party serves notice, in writing at least  
sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the original or any subsequent period of  
a desire to change, modify or terminate this Agreement. In the event either party  
serves notice with respect to changes in or modification or termination of the  
Agreement, it is agreed that the parties shall begin negotiations promptly.  
Pending the outcome of such negotiations, this Agreement shall continue in full  
force and effect beyond the expiration date, subject, however to the right of either  
party to terminate the entire Agreement upon at least seven (7) days’ prior writ-  
ten notice to the other party.  
### AGREED TO THIS 8TH DAY OF DECEMBER 2005.  
### ACME MARKETS, INC.: U.F.C.W. LOCAL 1776:  
John Calleri, Vice President Wendell W. Young, IV  
Labor Relations and Employment Law President  
Michele Kessler  
Secretary-Treasurer  
Nicholas J. Farina  
Executive Vice President  
The above terms @fe subject to ratification by the bargaining unit members.  
For UFCW Local 1776: For Alberison’s/Acme:  
me PELE a Jil ~  
  
He  
Lf  
| i  
fi: nC  
ho AD £2 al é  
fj Ley. le Seo.  
Chet  
### ED  
the on bre  
  
ALE (Bren  
Mit isa £5  
Hh  
—Me  
tA Me  
po  
    
(74  
Me pe Lp  
### REE  
Shak Dye,  
4()  
### EXHIBIT 1 - ADDENDUM  
United Food and Commercial Workers Local No. 1776 affiliated with the  
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO.  
The undersigned Employer hereby agrees that if it or any of its subsidiaries  
Owns or operates any food store (like Plus), non- food department stores (like K-  
Mart), or convenience stores in the jurisdictional area of the Union, it will recog-  
nize the Union as collective bargaining agent for all employees in said store, pro-  
vided, however, that the employees to be included in the unit and the terms and  
conditions of employment to be applied to such employees shall be only such as  
may be expressly agreed upon between the Employer and the Union. It is agreed  
that such agreement shall be based upon the competitive wages and benefits  
being paid for comparable stores in the jurisdictional area of the Union.  
It is understood that if the parties are unable to reach agreements as to any mat-  
ters as to which agreement is required by this letter, the Union may strike or pick-  
et only the specific food store (like Plus), non food store department store (like  
K-Mart) or convenience store involved but may not engage in any strike or pick-  
eting of or engage in any interference whatsoever with any other stores, operat-  
ing facilities or establishments of the employer or any of its subsidiaries.  
The terms of this letter constitute a separate and distinct side agreement  
between the parties and shall not in any way be subject to arbitration.  
This letter shall not apply to any food store (like Plus), non-food department  
store (like K-Mart) or convenience stores whose employees are represented by  
other Unions at the time such specified operation is acquired.  
Very truly yours,  
Acme Markets, Inc.  
41  
### EXHIBIT 2 - ADDENDUM  
ARTICLE 3 - Recognition and Jurisdiction  
### A. Representatives of Acme Markets, Inc. and Local No. 1776 have met and  
will continue to meet on a regular basis, as circumstances require, to discuss com-  
petitive differences in language and administrative practices affecting the clerks  
work clause in other collective bargaining agreements.  
The Union shall not arbitrarily or capriciously withhold relief from this  
Agreement and the Employer may grieve any adverse decision in this area.  
B. If a shop steward or union representative finds a salesman stocking or pric-  
ing merchandise or performing any other clerks’ work that is not an exception  
provided by the clerks work clause relief, Local 1776 will immediately send a let-  
ter to the Employer setting forth the particular specified incident. The Employer  
at its option may request a meeting with a union representative on the alleged vio-  
lation. If this alleged violation is substantiated by the facts, then the Employer  
will acknowledge the Union’s letter as a formal warning.  
Should a shop steward or union representative find a salesman stocking or pric-  
ing merchandise or performing any other clerks’ work within six (6) months from  
the date of the warning letter citing the original violation, then Local 1776 will  
seek compensation time to be paid to members of the bargaining unit.  
For Philadelphia Division Only:  
### RULES GOVERNING CLERKS’ WORK CLAUSE RELIEF  
### BEVERAGE  
Pepsi Cola, 7-Up, Franks, Coca Cola, Canada Dry, A-Treat  
### BREADS AND CAKES  
Amoroso, Tasty-Kake, Wonder Bread, Schmidts, Entenmanns  
Hostess, Mrs. Fly’s, Drakes, Stroehmann,  
Arnolds, Pepperidge Farms, Thomas English Muffins  
### RACK JOBBERS  
Leggs, Greeting Cards, Book & Magazines Distributors,  
Shoes, Soft Goods, Ethnic HABA (in stores where serviced)  
### COOKIES  
Nabisco, Keebler, Sunshine, Pepperidge Farms, Archway,  
Stella D’Ora  
### SNACKS  
Frito-Lays, Herrs, Snyders, Groffs, Utz, Gibbles,  
Wise, Bachman  
### MISCELLANEOUS SALESMAN  
Goya - Special ethnic products that are only distributed  
in certain stores.  
OTHER - only those products previously processed by Zukerman  
Passover displays and merchandise (both holiday displays and in the aisles)  
No salesman may work putting up any dairy or frozen food products  
whatsoever.  
43  
### EXHIBIT 3 - MISCELLANEOUS AGREEMENTS  
### 1. CONSECUTIVE NIGHTS OFF GUARANTEE  
The Company and the Union agree to resolve this issue consistent with the  
terms and intent of Article 9.4 Paragraph D, of the current agreement as per our  
discussions in negotiations concerning the Company’s desire to meet the needs of  
the business, and deal with warehouse in transition.  
The Company also agrees to maintain a certain percentage of schedules with  
the consecutive nights off.  
### 2. PRODUCTIVITY  
The Union and Company agree that bargaining committees will continue to  
meet to establish store wide productivity goals involving ergonomics, buy union,  
job training, and thresholds for incentives.  
### 3. JOB TRAINING  
The Company and the Union recognize the need for education and training. It  
will be the purpose of this plan to train new employees through scheduled prac-  
tical and related classroom assignments to qualify them to fill clerk and depart-  
ment head positions. And thus, to provide the Company with the skilled employ-  
ees and to foster standards for training of future clerks.  
In order to foster sound standards for training, all courses will continue to con-  
tain practical and classroom instructions necessary to provide fully qualified  
skilled employees.  
The parties within thirty (30) days following the effective date of this agree-  
ment shall establish a job training opportunities committee. This committee will  
consist of two (2) members appointed by the Union and two (2) members  
appointed by the Company.  
The purpose of the committee will be to provide opportunity for employees to  
gain entry level and additional employment skills. It shall establish a program to  
meet this purpose subject to the final approval of both parties.  
Method to establish an education and fund  
   
Preamble  
44  
Purpose of Intent  
Definition of Terms  
Qualification of Enrollment  
Administration of Courses  
Financing  
Progress Review  
Eligibility  
Extent of Instruction  
Certification  
Requirement and availability of courses  
4.New Full Time Position: The parties agree to continue discussions relevant to  
the development of a new full time classification. In the event an agreement is  
reached the parties are authorized to implement such a position.  
5. Integrated Disability - Workers’ Compensation Management: The parties  
have discussed the costs associated with the Disability and Workers’  
Compensation benefits and have agreed to continue these discussions in an effort  
to reduce costs. The parties are authorized to implement an integrated disability  
management program if mutually agreeable.  
### EXHIBIT 4 - BENEFITS AT A GLANCE*  
For Employees hired prior to January 23, 2000  
### PLAN J PLAN Il PLAN Ill PLAN IV  
(Part Time) (Part Time) (Full Time) (Full Time)  
C.S.A.'s/ Clerks after 2 years First 4 Years After 4 Years  
Baggers  
after 6 Months  
Personal Choice Personal Choice Personal Choice  
C1-F1-O1 C1-F1-01 C1-F1-01  
a See  
Allergy Testing  
Physical Well Being | Employee/Member pe Benefits Benefits  
Assistance  
Child Care Disability Disability  
=e (Weekly Accident (Weekly Accident  
and Sickness and Sickness  
[Mes [ees  
Program  
Disability Accidental Death & | Accidental Death &  
(Weekly Accident Dismemberment Dismemberment  
and Sickness)  
| Legal Service Child Care Child Care  
Assistance Assistance  
‘Life Insurances Legal Service| LegalService  
Accidental Death & Physical Well Being | Physical Well Being  
Dismemberment  
| oo. | Physical Well Being Educational Benefit | Educational Benefit  
Program Program  
*The above is a summary of benefits. For details refer to your summary plan  
description or contact the Health and Welfare Fund office at 1-800-458-8618 or  
(610) 941-9400.  
   
46  
### BENEFITS AT A GLANCE*  
For Employees hired on or after January 23, 2000  
through December 2, 2005  
ervice ontridution  
Contribution 5/4/06  
pa ee  
months  
Fl Lh  
months  
9 through 17 Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being None $148.82/month  
months  
KPOS Single $80/month;  
Family $150/month  
18 through 29 Member Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability, $297 .63/month  
      
      
        
   
   
   
   
   
   
        
      
   
       
     
   
       
    
   
   
   
       
        
    
KPOS C2-F 1-01 and Prescription Single $50/month;  
Family $120/month  
   
   
   
   
   
30 through 41 Member Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability,  
months Life Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal,  
Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being.  
KPOS C2-F 1-01 and Prescription  
     
        
       
    
         
Single $25/month;  
Family $80/month  
     
   
     
42 through 47  
months  
Member Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability,  
Life Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal,  
Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being  
       
months Life Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal,  
Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being  
$520.84/month  
$654.77 /month  
Single $15/month;  
Family $50/month  
None $706.86/month  
None $706.87/month  
Employee contributions remain unchanged. M.O.B. increases will only apply to  
Employer contributions.  
KPOS C2-F 1-01 and Prescription  
       
     
     
     
      
   
    
   
    
   
   
     
   
48 months and  
more  
KPOS C2-F1-01 and Prescription, Member  
Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability, Life  
Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal, Education,  
Childcare, Physical Well Being  
Personal Choice C2-F1-01 and Prescription,  
Member Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability,  
Life Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal,  
Education, Childcare, Physical Weil Being  
     
      
   
       
     
    
60 months  
    
NOTE: The above is a summary of benefits. For details refer to your summary  
plan description or contact the Health and Welfare Fund office at 1-800-458-8618  
or (610) 941-9400.  
47  
### BENEFITS AT A GLANCE*  
For Employees hired on or after December 3, 2005  
of Benefits Employee  
ervice : : ontribution  
Contribution 5/1/06  
  
pee  
months  
None  
9 through 17 $128.97/month  
months  
Single $80/month;  
ily $150/month  
$451.38/month  
$567.47 /month  
     
      
            
     
    
   
      
Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being  
      
   
   
KPOS C2-F1-01  
    
         
     
     
    
    
   
18 through 29  
Member Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability,  
months  
Life Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal,  
Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being  
     
       
    
   
   
    
KPOS C2-F1-01 and Prescription Single $50/month;  
Family $120/month  
     
    
     
       
   
   
30 through 41  
months  
Member Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability,  
Life Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal,  
Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being.  
KPOS C2-F1-01 and Prescription  
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Single $25/month;  
Family $80/month  
    
   
     
        
   
    
    
    
42 through 47  
Member Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability,  
months  
Life Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal,  
Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being  
   
    
    
       
        
    
     
KPOS C2-F1-01 and Prescription Single $15/month;  
  
wi —  
Employee contributions remain unchanged. M.O.B. increases will only apply to  
Employer contributions.  
       
    
   
     
   
48 months and  
more  
KPOS C2-F1-01 and Prescription, Member  
Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability, Life  
Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal, Education,  
Childcare, Physical Well Being  
Personal Choice C2-F 1-01 and Prescription,  
Member Assistance, Dental, Vision, Disability,  
Life Insurance, AD&D Insurance, Legal,  
Education, Childcare, Physical Well Being  
   
        
   
   
   
   
   
      
     
60 months  
   
   
   
     
NOTE: The above is a summary of benefits. For details refer to your summary  
plan description or contact the Health and Welfare Fund office at 1-800-458-8618  
or (610) 941-9400.  
48  
6F  
### 6b OV OL SDVUSANS * AINO TING noe  
dba ta oe POE TCDS wh ad  
### OS SS  
7 Sheen weet ct UP eat joe pty ft  
TEL PA Sheen abe  
a  
5) ebay the  
poe (ol ae ESC ST oy cu | oe arm mE RTI  
" Oe tN ae of  
PONIOM JON come Dante LO  
See RS eae tg BT mt oe a eg Trt aT  
a a oe  
pap “Ton 3 ors  
pap aye  
   
   
ON TY aH og yin SEND  
ele ek  
    
$9 99/05 reuoned  
‘  
### $002 | YSHOL90 TVOIOSIN MAN  
### ONN4 SYVATEM HLTWAH 942) IWOOT  
### S  
   
### EXHIBIT 6 - PENSION IMPROVEMENTS*  
   
* increase pre-94 multiplier for full-time service by 6-2/3% from $30 to $32;  
* increase pre-94 multiplier for part-time service by 12.5% from $16 to $18;  
* increase post-1993 multipliers for members with between 10-20 years of serv-  
ice by 12.5% from $40 to $45 for full-time service and $20 to $22.50 for part-  
time service; and  
increase the post-1993 benefit for members with between 20-30 years of service by  
11.1% from $45 to $50 for full-time service, and $22.50 to $25 for part-time service.  
2. If, during the term of the collective-bargaining agreement, the actuary to the  
UFCW Tri-State Pension Plan determines that the plan’s funding period is 10  
years or less, the parties will implement benefit improvements to the Plan that  
would extend the funding period to 15- years. Unless otherwise negotiated, one-  
half the value of the benefit improvement will be allocated to past service. For  
purposes of making the funding period determination, the actuary will rely on un-  
audited assets provided by the Plan’s investment consultant and administrator,  
together with a roll-forward of liabilities from the most recent actuarial valuation.  
3. During the 3-year period ending January 1, 1999, the Plan’s average invest-  
ment return has been 12.9% vs. the assumed rate of 8%. If, during the 3-year  
period January 1, 1999 through December 31, 2001, the plan were to experience  
the same average rate of return (12.9%), the fund would have approximately $55  
million of additional assets, which means that there would be no unfunded  
accrued liability. If, at that time, the trustees chose to extend the funding period  
to 15-years from that point forward, it could be possible to increase these bene-  
fits to the following levels:  
* pre-1994 service: full-time............. $38, $21  
### FT Pr  
* service from 1994 forward 0 to 10 years - $45.00 $22.50  
10 to 20 years - $50.00 $25.00  
20 to 30 years - $55.00 $27.50  
30 years ormore - $60.00 $30.00  
4. Acme Markets makes quarterly contributions to the Plan at the end of each  
quarter. Acme will take a contribution holiday for four quarters a follows:  
¢ 4th quarter 1999 ¢ 4th quarter 2000  
° Ist quarter 2001 ¢ 2nd quarter 2001  
50)  
5. If in the three year period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 the  
same assumptions set forth in 3 above for that period are met the parties agree to  
meet and discuss what if any changes can be made as a result of the attainment  
of those assumptions.  
*The above is a summary of benefits. For details refer to your summary plan  
description or contact the Pension Fund office 1-800-228-7484.  
### EXHIBIT 7  
### ALLENTOWN/READING -  
### PHILADELPHIA CONSOLIDATION  
The parties agree to merge the Allentown/Reading bargaining unit with the  
Philadelphia bargaining unit in the following manner:  
A. Following the merger, there will be one collective bargaining agreement  
covering the same geographic area that the two separate agreements represented  
prior to the consolidation.  
B. Within the newly merged collective bargaining unit, there will be two sepa-  
rate divisions representing the formerly separate collective bargaining units.  
Divisions will continue to be referred to as the Philadelphia and the  
Allentown/Reading Divisions.  
C. Those terms in the two current collective bargaining agreements that are  
identical will in effect be merged and applied to both divisions. Those current  
terms and practices in addition to newly negotiated terms contained herein that  
are not identical will continue to apply only to the respective divisions and not to  
the entire bargaining unit.  
D. Seniority for all purposes will continue to be determined within two sepa-  
rate divisions, except as modified by this agreement in Section F.4 Seniority  
rights can only be exercised within the employees’ respective divisions with the  
above exception.  
E. Following the ratification of this Agreement and an early retirement option  
offering, the Acme may close a significant number of stores in the  
Allentown/Reading Division. In order to prevent a closure of all the  
Allentown/Reading Division stores, the parties have agreed to the following  
terms in order to create a labor mix that will provide an opportunity for the  
Allentown/Reading Division to be profitable.  
au  
jam  
F. 1. Minimum full time percentage - 25%  
2. Twenty-four (24) month checker qualified line on the wage progression  
moved to thirty-six (36) months. Modify Article 14.3 as follows:  
** All clerks are entitled to progress to the 48 month rate. Those employ-  
ees who are not checker qualified by 24 months of service will have their  
rate frozen at the 24 month rate. It is the Employer’s responsibility to offer  
checker training and an opportunity to qualify prior to an employee reach-  
ing the 36 month of seniority. Those clerks who waive their right and/or fail  
to checker qualify will not progress past the 24 month rate. Employees who  
have attained a rate at or above $7.25 per hour before the implementation  
of this agreement will not have their rate reduced or frozen as a result of this  
agreement. In accordance with past practice, employees who fail to check-  
er qualify will be given additional opportunities on a reasonable basis.  
3. Maximum fifteen percent (15%) of the store hours per store to consist of  
non-checker qualified clerks and C.S.A.’s.  
4. Article 27 and Exhibit 3-Miscellaneous Agreements -Delete 1.A and B of  
the Allentown/Reading Division only.  
5. Newly constructed store locations must be staffed by a minimum of 50%  
from existing bargaining unit employees including those on layoff and those  
employees in the “Philadelphia bump zone”.  
6. Replacement stores must be staffed by a minimum of 75% of employees  
from the existing bargaining unit including those on layoff and those employed  
in the in the “bump zone”  
G. Allentown/Reading Division employees will have four (4) options offered  
other than involuntary layoff as the company reorganizes and eliminates a num-  
ber of stores in the Allentown/Reading Division. The options are as follows:  
1. Early retirement with benefit improvements - detailed in attached memo.  
2. Exercise seniority and bumping rights within the Allentown/Reading  
Division which may result in transfers, involuntary layoffs, and / or demotions.  
3. Volunteer to be laid off regardless of seniority with current contract recall rights.  
4. Exercise bump rights into one of the thirteen (13) stores in the Philadelphia  
Division “bump zone”.  
32  
a. The “bump zone” will consists of the following stores:  
1594-Lansdale 1894-Exton  
1784-Doylestown 1767-Thorndale  
1774-Horsham 1660-Parksburg  
1522-Warrington 1710-Ambler  
1756-King of Prussia 1622-Dresher  
1821-Phoenixville 1724-East-Norriton  
1655-Collegeville  
b. Allentown/Reading employees may only bump part time Philadelphia  
Division employees with less than five (5) years of seniority at the time of the  
bump. A maximum of 60 Allentown/Reading employees may transfer into the  
Philadelphia Division in accordance with 4,a. above.  
c. The status of Allentown/Reading employees who exercise their transfer  
rights into the Philadelphia “bump zone” will be that of part time employee tem-  
porarily transferred while working in the “bump zone’’. These employees will not  
be entitled to travel pay.  
d. While working in the Philadelphia “bump zone”, employees will be covered  
under all of the Allentown/Reading Division terms of the newly negotiated col-  
lective bargaining agreement.  
e. While working in the Philadelphia “bump zone” Allentown/Reading  
Division employees will be guaranteed the minimum of 26 regular hours weekly  
regardless of seniority.  
H. As new and replacement stores are opened in the Allentown/Reading  
Division, employees on involuntary layoff, voluntary layoff and employed with-  
in the “bump zone”, will be offered recall to the Allentown/Reading Division in  
accordance with the recall and seniority rights under the contract.  
For UFCW 1776 For Acme Markets Inc.  
   
   
   
   
### AMENDMENT TO THE  
### COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
This Amendment to the collective bargaining agreement (“CBA”) is made and entered  
into as of December 13, 2000, by and between ACME MARKETS, INC., (hereinafter referred to  
### as “Employer”), and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL  
1776 (hereanafter referred to as affiliated with the UNITED FOOD AND  
### COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO. It is hereby agreed by  
and between the parties hereto, mtending to be legally bound hereby, that:  
The CBA shall be, and hereby is, amended to provide that the Employer shal)  
make monthly contributions and provide remittance reports and much other information as may  
be requested to the UFCW Local 1776 and Participating Employers Flexible Benefits Plan  
(“Fleuble Benefits Plan”), the UFCW Loca) 1776 and Participatmg Employers Retirement and  
Savings Plan (the “401(k) Plan”) or the UFCW Local 1776 and Participating Employers Health  
and Welfare Fund (“Health and Welfare Fund”), as such contributions are required to be divided  
in accordance with the terms of the affected employee's clectian in accordance with the terms of  
the CBA, for so long as the Flexible Benefits Plan ts in existence, In addition to the amounts  
payable to the Flexible Benefits Plan pursuant to employee clections, there shall be paid to such  
Plan an amount equal to eleven percent of the amoumts elected to be contributed to the  
Paid Tume-Off aption and the Medical Spending Account option. From the contribution received  
in November, 2000, an amount equa) to four dollars and sixty cents multiplied by the cota!  
mumber of employees with respect to whom a contnbution is made under this Agreement shall be  
paid to the 401 (k) Plan rather than to the Health and Welfare Fund. From the contributians  
received for December 3), 2000 through December 31, 2002, an amount equa! ta thirty-five  
cents multiplied by the total number of employees with respect to whom a contribution is made  
under this Agreement shall be paid to the 40} (k) Plan rather than to the Health and Welfare  
Fund.  
The Employer contibutions to the Plans (not including the amount of any pre-tax  
elective deferrals made by employees) shall be im the same amounts as madr, or required to be  
made, to the Health and Welfare Fund, and shall includs any MOB adjustments as required by  
the CBA.  
3 The Eroployer shal} make contributions in the form of a single check, made  
payable to Healthcare Strategies, Inc. and it shal] designate HSI 2s its agent with respect  
to the transmuitta] of contbutions from the Employer to such Plans and, in the case of the  
Fleuble Benefits Plan, with respect to the operation of such Plan. The Employer shall execute  
the Agency and Administrative Services Only Agreement with HSI.  
4. The Employer shall withhold from employee wages on a pre-tax basis such  
monies as the clects or designates as voluntary salary deferrals to the 401(k) Plan.  
Jr  
i  
5. The Employer agrees to comply with the provisions of the Flexible Benefits Plan  
and the 401(k) Plan and with the rules and regulations duly adopted by the Union and the  
Employer or the Boards of Trustees of the Health and Welfare Fund or the 401(k) Plan, as the  
case may be.  
6. The Employer shail remit to the 401(k) Plan all such monies from  
employees, pursuant to paragraph no. 4 above, along with a remittance report, within 15 days of  
the end of the month during which contributions were withheld or otherwise as required by law.  
All other terms of the CBA, and any appendices thereto, shall remain in full force  
and effect.  
8. If the Flexible Benefits Plan is terminated, or otherwise ends, the Employer's  
obligation to make monthly contributions to the Flexible Benefits Plan pursuant to this  
amendment and provide remittance reports shall automatically end, and the amounts otherwise  
payable to such Plan shall instead be paid to the Health and Welfare Fund.  
9. In the case of contributions to the Flexible Benefits Plan which an employee  
elects to have credited to the Paid Time-Off option, the Employer shall reduce the total amount  
of the contributions to the Health and Welfare Fund by an amount equal to the tax Habilities with  
tespect to the Paid Time-Off option and have such monies instead contributed to HSY as its agent  
for purposes of withholding, psying, and reporting such tax liabilities.  
Agreed to and accepted by:  
### UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL ACME MARKETS, INC,  
### WORKERS, LOCAL 1776  
Wendell W. Young, IV Michele A. Murphy  
EffectiveDate «2000  
Z\My Doorman Fund i PlanE<pentes doc  
Ca  
Ca  
### AGENCY AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  
### ONLY AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT, made effective as of the____ day of , 2000  
by and between HEALTHCARE STRATEGIES, INC., a Pennsylvania corpora-  
tion with a registered office at 46 Tunbridge Road, Haverford, Pennsylvania  
19041 and (the “Employer’).  
WHEREAS, the Employer has determined to participate in the UFCW Local  
1776 and Participating Employers Restated Flexible Benefits Plan (“Choice  
Plan”), a multiemployer cafeteria plan, offered to those of its employees  
(“Employees”) who participate in the UFCW Local 1776 and Participating  
Employers Health and Welfare Fund (the “Fund”);  
WHEREAS, the Employer desires to engage the services of HSI as its agent in  
order to make the required allocations and payments of the Employer’s contribu-  
tions with respect to the Choice Plan pursuant to (1) the terms of a collective bar-  
gaining agreement as amended on by and between the Employer and  
United Food and Commercial Workers Union No. 1776, affiliated with the United  
Food and Commercial Workers International Union, affiliated with AFL-CIO (the  
“Union”), as it may be amended from time to time and any successor collective  
bargaining agreement thereto (the “Collective Bargaining Agreement”), and (2)  
the elections made by Employees under the Choice Plan for the various benefits  
offered thereunder;  
WHEREAS, the Employer has requested that HSI receive its contributions  
made pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement and pay such amounts to  
the UFCW Local 1776 and Participating Employers Retirement and Savings Plan  
(“40 1(k) Plan”), the Fund or the Choice Plan, as applicable; and  
WHEREAS, HSI is willing to provide such services on behalf of the Employer.  
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual prem-  
ises herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and  
sufficiency of which is hereby mutually acknowledged, each intending to be  
legally bound, do agree as follows:  
1. The Employer’s Duties. Pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement concerning the Choice Plan, the 401(k) Plan and the  
Fund and the elections made under the Choice Plan by the Employees, the Employer  
6  
tsa  
shall forward a check payable to “Healthcare Strategies, Inc. (or its designee) as Agent”  
in the amount required under the Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
2. HSI’s Duties. Promptly, upon receipt of each check from the Employer pur-  
suant to Section | above, HSI shall allocate the amount paid in the Employer’s  
check as follows:  
(i) in accordance with Employees’ elections under the Choice Plan, HSI shall  
remit a check to the 401(k) Plan in an amount equal to the aggregate sum allocat-  
ed by Employees for such purpose, plus, an amount equal to the other monies the  
Employer has agreed to pay to the 401(k) Plan in the Collective Bargaining  
Agreement;  
(ii) in accordance with Employees’ elections under the Choice Plan, HSI shall  
remit a check to the Fund in an amount equal to the aggregate sum allocated by  
the Employees for medical coverage under the Fund (other than the UFCW Local  
1776 and Participating Employers Restated Medical Expense Reimbursement  
Plan (the “MERP”)), supplemental group-term life insurance coverage under the  
Fund and extended medical, dental, vision or prescription coverage under the  
Fund (the Extended Eligibility Bank);  
(ii1) in accordance with Employees’ elections under the Choice Plan, HSI shall  
maintain and administer those amounts paid by the Employer equal to the aggre-  
gate sum (“Aggregate Sum”) allocated by Employees to the Paid Time-Off Bank  
and the MERP under the Choice Plan together with an amount equal to (1) the  
Employer share of FICA taxes attributable thereto and (2) an amount equal to  
eleven percent of the Aggregate Sum; and  
(iv) the balance of the check shall be paid to the Fund.  
3. The Paid Time-Off Bank. HSI shall make payments to those Employees who  
elect the Paid Time-Off Bank option under the Choice Plan in accordance with the  
terms and conditions set forth in the Choice Plan. Amounts allocated to the Paid  
Time-Off Bank shall be held in a non-interest bearing escrow account in the name  
of HSI as an agent of the Employer. HSI may commingle contributions made by  
all Employers participating in this Plan, so long as separate records are maintained  
and assets of one Employer are not used for any other Employer. If the bargain-  
ing parties agreed that an amount equal to applicable taxes would be retained by  
HSI as agent, then HSI shall prepare Forms W-2 and other required  
reporting forms and either file the same together with applicable withholding tax  
on behalf of the Employer or at the written request of the Employer give such doc-  
uments and the withholding amounts to the Employer for filing and payment. It  
is understood and agreed by the parties hereto that HSI is acting as an agent of the  
a]  
Employer with respect to its holding of Employer contributions relating to the Paid  
Time-Off Bank and is merely responsible for the safekeeping of the Employer’s  
contributions relating thereto and making payments of Time Paid-Off benefits to  
Employees in accordance with the Choice Plan. It is expressly agreed by the par-  
ties hereto that any disputes of fact or law in connection with the payment of ben-  
efits from the Paid Time-Off Bank shall be determined by the Union and the  
Employer pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
4. The MERP. HSI shall make payments to those Employees who elect the  
MERP option under the Choice Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions  
set forth in the Choice Plan. Amounts allocated to the MERP shall be held in a  
non-interest bearing account in the name of HSI as agent for the Employer. HSI  
may commingle contributions made by all Employers participating in this Plan,  
so long as separate records are maintained and assets of one Employer are not  
used for any other Employer. It is understood and agreed by the parties hereto  
that HSI is acting as an agent of the Employer with respect to its holding of  
Employer contributions relating to the MERP and is merely responsible for the  
safekeeping of the Employer’s contributions relating thereto and making pay-  
ments of MERP benefits to Employees in accordance with the Choice Plan. It is  
expressly agreed by the parties hereto that any disputes of fact or law in connec-  
tion with the payment of benefits from the MERP shall be determined by the  
Union and the Employer pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
   
5. Terms. This Agreement shall be effective from and shall end  
when the Collective Bargaining Agreement expires or is modified with respect to  
the operation of the Choice Plan or when the Union and the Employer otherwise  
agree to terminate the Choice Plan. This Agreement may be terminated for cause  
immediately by either party. For purposes of this Section 5, “cause” against HSI  
means (1) fraud, theft or embezzlement or gross negligence with respect to the  
handling of funds or (2) material continuing breach of this Agreement that is not  
cured after ten (10) business days’ advance written notice, and “cause” against the  
Employer means failure of the Employer to pay amounts due to HSI hereunder  
after written notice of failure to remit same. Notice required under this Paragraph  
shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested or by United Parcel  
Service as follows:  
If to HSI:  
Healthcare Strategies, Inc.  
3031 Walton Road, Building B  
Norristown, Pa 19401  
Attention: Regina Reardon, Esquire  
(Ju  
oa)  
If to the Employer:  
With Copies to:  
Wendell W. Young, III, Chairman  
UFCW Local 1776 and Participating Employers Health and Welfare Fund  
3031 Walton Road, Building A  
Norristown, PA 19401  
Michele Murphy, Secretary  
UFCW Local 1776 and Participating Employers Health and Welfare Fund  
c/o Albertsons, Inc.  
General Offices  
250 Parkcenter Boulevard  
Boise, ID 83726  
Upon receipt of written request from the Employer, HSI shall deliver to the  
Employer or its designee copies of all files prepared by or documents or other  
materials accumulated by HSI under this Agreement. The requirements of the  
previous sentence do not include HSI’s corporate or business records, except to  
the extent that such records relate to this Agreement or to the business of the  
Employer or are required to be reviewed or audited under the rules or standards  
imposed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for the audit  
of funds covered under ERISA.  
6. Fiduciary Capacity. It is expressly understood by the parties hereto that in  
carrying out its administrative and agency duties hereunder that HSI is not acting  
as a “fiduciary” under the Choice Plan within the meaning of ERISA and is act-  
ing solely as an administrative services only provider.  
7. Inspection and Removal of Records. It is understood that all records,  
accounts, checks, canceled checks, correspondence, files, forms, stationery,  
booklets and documents prepared by or accumulated by HSI under or relating to  
this Agreement including, but not limited to, records stored in a computer or on  
computer tapes and/or cards, are subject to audit by the Employer or the Union  
or their designees upon reasonable notice to HSI.  
Can  
### SO  
8. Indemnification and Hold Harmless.  
   
(a) HSI shall indemnify and save harmless the Employer, its employees, agents  
and representatives against any claim or legal action for injunctive relief or dam-  
ages of any type where such a claim or legal action arises as a result of acts or  
omissions of HSI, its directors, officers, employees, agents or representatives  
under the terms and conditions of this Agreement to the extent the Employer did  
not act or fail to act in a manner so as to contribute to such claim or damages.  
HSI shall maintain a policy of insurance sufficient to cover any indemnity obli-  
gations hereunder, as more fully set forth Paragraph (c) below.  
The Employer shall promptly give HSI written notice of any claim that may  
involve HSI’s indemnity obligations under this section. The determination of the  
action to be taken to defend or compromise any such claim, as well as selection  
of defense counsel, shall be in the sole discretion of HSI.  
(b) The Employer shall indemnify and save harmless HSI, its directors, officers,  
employees, agents or representatives against any claim or legal action for injunc-  
tive relief or damages of any type where such a claim or legal action arises as a  
result of acts or omissions of the Employer under the terms and conditions of this  
Agreement. In the event any claim or legal action relates to continuation cover-  
age under the Consolidated Omnibus Bud  
(c) get Reconciliation Act of 1985 (“COBRA”), the Employer shall be liable if it  
failed to timely notify HSI of a “qualifying event” within the meaning of Section  
4980B of the Code, or failed to provide to HSI accurate information concerning  
the Participant or an eligible dependent thereof and such failure in any way con-  
tributed to or caused the alleged COBRA violation.  
HSI shall promptly give the Employer written notice of any claim that may  
involve the Employer’s indemnity obligations under this section. The determina-  
tion of the action to be taken to defend or compromise any such claim, as well as  
selection of defense counsel, shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer.  
(d) HSI shall maintain during the term of the Agreement, and any extension  
thereof, errors and omissions insurance, and a fidelity bond in an amount suffi-  
cient to cover all funds handled by HSI pursuant to this Agreement.  
9. Arbitration of Dispute. When a dispute arises between the parties over any  
matter arising under or related to this Agreement or the duties of the parties under  
it, either party may submit the dispute to final and binding arbitration in accor-  
dance with the Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.  
60)  
Each party shall pay one-half of the arbitrator’s and American Arbitration  
Association’s expenses, as well as its own costs, and each shall be responsible for  
its own attorneys’, witness and expert fees.  
10. Reimbursement for Costs. Any amounts forfeited by Participants under the  
MERP shall be used to defray direct costs incurred by HSI in administering the  
MERP and the Paid-Time Off option. To the extent the amount of the forfeitures  
exceeds such direct costs, the balance shall be paid per capita to each Eligible  
Employee who participated in the MERP during the Plan Year with respect to  
which the forfeitures arose.  
11. Further Terms.  
(a) HST shall not assign all or any part of its duties under the Agreement with-  
out the prior written approval of the Employer, which consent shall not be unrea-  
sonably withheld.  
(b) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating the rela-  
tion of employer and employee between the parties, and HSI shall be deemed to  
be at all times an independent contractor of the Employer. HSI shall at all times  
disclose that it is an independent contractor of the Employer whose authority is  
expressed exclusively by this Agreement.  
(c) The terms and provisions contained in this Agreement constitute the entire  
Agreement between the Employer and HSI. This Agreement supersedes all prior  
communications, representations or agreements, verbal or written, between the  
Employer and HSI with respect to the subject matter hereof.  
(d) This Agreement may be modified or amended, and the terms hereof may be  
waived, only by a written instrument signed by the parties or, in the case of a waiy-  
er, by the party waiving compliance. No delay on the part of any party in exercis-  
ing any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor  
shall any waiver on the part of any party of any such right, power or privilege, nor  
any single or partial exercise of any such right, power or privilege, preclude any  
further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other such right, power or privilege.  
The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any  
rights or remedies that any party may otherwise have at law or in equity.  
(e) All statements, representations, facts, figures, data and reports presented to  
any representatives of the Employer shall be prepared in accordance with appli-  
cable accounting, financial or other business or professional standards or proce-  
dures and shall be true and correct in all material respects.  
61  
(f) Nothing herein shall be construed so as to limit HSI’s ability to engage in  
other business ventures, except as may be a violation of ERISA, professional  
ethics or standards or applicable state or federal law, provided that such ventures  
are disclosed to the Employer upon request.  
12. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by applicable federal  
law and, where not preempted, by the law of the Commonwealth of  
Pennsylvania.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Employer and HSI have duly executed this  
Agreement on this day of , 2000.  
By: By:  
### HEALTHCARE STRATEGIES, INC.  
Regina C. Reardon  
President  
### UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION  
### AND PARTICIPATING FOOD INDUSTRY EMPLOYERS  
### TRISTATE PENSION FUND  
### MINUTES OF SPECIAL BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING  
DECEMBER 18, 2003  
### i ROLL CALL  
### ATTACHMENT A  
(Apreaved Apri 16, 2004)  
A Special Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union  
and Participating Food Industry Tri-State Pension Fund was called to order at 6:40  
p.m. by Acting Secretary John at the offices of Tn-State Administrators, Inc, Mount  
Laurel, New Jersey.  
Trustees present were:  
Nicholas Farina  
Sarn Ferraina  
Brian String  
Barmadette Williams  
Wendell Wo Young, IV  
John Caller  
Diane Hauser  
Yviiliam Moss  
Joan Williams  
Wiliam G Yourtg. Jr.  
Also present were:  
Mark Belland, Esq  
Stuart Davidson, Esq.  
Deborah Lerner, Esq.  
Kim Gost, Esq  
Steven Spencer, Esq  
Bishop  
Frark M. Vaccaro  
Anne Karpin  
Rosemary  
John Rongione  
“Ureon Trustee  
Trustee  
-Uneon Trustee  
«Union Truster  
-Urert Trustee  
-Empayer Trustee, Acting Secretary  
-Empioyer Trustee  
-Empioyer Truster  
Trustee  
-Employer Trustes  
-O Brien, Bellard, Bushinsky,  
Special Cofections Counset  
-Willig, Yvilliams & Davidson  
Co-Counsel to the Fund  
-Wiilig, Williams & Davidson  
Co-Counsal tp the Fund  
‘Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LP  
Co-Counse! to the Fund  
-Margan, Lewis & Bockius LP  
Co-Counset to the Fund  
-The Savitz Organization, Inc.  
Fund Actuary  
Administrators, tne.  
Contract Administrator  
-Tr-State Administrators. inc.  
-Tn-State Administrators. inc.  
Administrators. inc  
63  
### i. OF TRUST  
The Trustees reviewed laters of resignebon a Trustee received from Carvel M Mays. Jr. and  
Murphy.  
UPON & MOTION GULY MADE, peaparty seconded and unanimously passed, the Board  
of Trusises accepted the resignations of Carvel M. Maya, Jr. and Michele Murphy as  
Trustess.  
### 115 APPO! ENT OF TRUSTE  
The Trustees letters appointing Gemaretie and Joan Williams as Trustees.  
UPON A MOTION OULY MADE, properly and unanimously psaasd, the Boerd  
of Trustees accepted the appointment of Bermadetia VWiiliamsa and Joan a3  
Trustess.  
### Iv. TION AND MIMI NG ISSUES  
Acting Chainran Caleri stated that afer numerous Trustee discussians and ceucuses, ihe  
following Resolution was ready to be presemed tor approval:  
### ESOLUT!  
WHEREAS, Section 412(¢) of ihe Code and Seclion 304(a} af ERISA provide that a plan  
May feques! and obtain approval for an extension of an amortization Period in  
accordance with Section 412(6} of tha Code; and  
WHEREAS, tha Goard of Trustees of the Unset Food and Commercial Workers Union  
ane Participating Food Industry Ervployers Tri-Siata Pension Fund (tha "Fund" le the pian  
sponser ef the Uniled Food and Commercal Workers Union and Participating Food Industry  
Employers Tri-State Pension Plam (the *Pisn"), arct  
WHEREAS, the Fund’s actvary has that an mcrease in employer  
contribualions over that which are required by the employer's collective bargaining  
agreements over 6 as approved by ihe of the Treasury (the “Additonal  
Cenribution and reduchon in danefa accruals will be necesaary to cbtan Section  
412(e) relief  
NOW, THEREFORE, the Trustees agree a3 fobows:  
1. Net withstanding any prior actions, the benefit improvamen scheduled to become  
effective January 1, 2004 will ngt be implemented because the Fund cannot afford to  
mcresse benefits a this time The Fruetees wil) extend the benefit window until March  
31, 2004. siter which the benefiis pravioush avadéabie chunng the window will cagse {0 be  
available, suject to paragraph four below  
2. The Fund's profeasionals are directed to tasks ail necessary actions to file as soon a8  
possitte & request for en extension of the amortization period Under Revenue  
Code Seciion 412(8).  
64  
3. The Trustess shall meet in January 2004 lo determine the increased contribution rates  
to be raquired from ail contributing emplayers.  
4. Belore the Trusiaes reduce these mcreased rates, the Tnstess shall  
remsiate ihe benef mproyements referenced in parsgraoh one above. However, the  
Truglaes May agrees {0 proportionate?y reduce ihe mcreased employer rates  
in for & increase in the bene levels  
cA  
If Ihe increase in Comributions js oot sufficent lo obiain the requested approval  
for an extension of the period under Internal Revenue Coda Section 412(a),  
the parties will meet to discuss an mncrease in contributions andor raduciions  
In the rate Of future bensfn accruals to obtain such approval.”  
Trustees Wendell Young, IV. advised that he had a comment in make regarding the Resotution  
ard sésted ihat in hia capecty as Trustee of this Fund he is voting in favar of this Resolution.  
However. be ramindad the Board of Truatees that Local 1776 is party ta a numher af cotectwe  
bargaining agreements which mandate the implementabon of thea benefit Improvements in  
paragraph 1, and, 4 will require an amendment to these before Local 1774 can accept  
the ampsct of this resolution. Therefore. he i resernng the mgnts of Local 1776 should  
satdication be defeated. He did however ledge their besl efforts to secure rathication  
UPON A MOTION DULY MADE, properly and unanimously pasaed, the Board  
of Trustees approved the above Reaclution.  
### v. INTERNAL REVENVE COCE  
Mir. Spencer requested that the Tnestees authorize Trstes Jonn Callen to sign on benalt of ihe  
Employer Trusiaes and Trustee Yandel WV Young. [V, to sign on behall of the Union Trustees  
in regard to fling ihe Revenue Coce sppkcation.  
UPON A MOTION DULY MADE, properly seconded and unanimously passed, the Board  
of Trustees authorized Trustee John Caller and Trustees Wendal W. Young, |¥, to eign  
internal Revenue 412(¢) application on behalf of ihe Board of Trustees.  
### Vi. «ADJOURNMENT  
There beang no further business, the meeting was adjoumed at 6-45 p m  
nN  
tJ  
### CHEIRON  
66  
### ATTACHMENT 6  
dune LF, 2004  
Mr, Lawrence Issacs  
Internal Revenue Service  
  
1ELE Constitution Avenue  
DC 20224  
RE UFCW Tri-State Pension ~ 412{c) Application for Relief  
Dear Larry:  
Attached are the revised projections you requested that incorperate the Inteat asset Ggures  
which nefiect a 0% return through April 30" of this year. As with the prior submission,  
these projections reflect an increase in employer contributions of 25% for 2004, 10% for  
2005, 10% for 2006, and the removal of a recemtly bargained benefit improvement. In  
addition, we have reflected the additional changes you suggested were needed in order to  
see the fimding raGo improve through the end of the projection period. These additional  
changed reflect both a ten percent increase in employer cantributions as well as a 10%  
reduction in benefit accruals, beah starting in plam year 2067.  
As we discussed by phone, these additional changes have noe yet been agreed upon by the  
bargaining partios, and ocither side is at thes time prepared to ceanenit to thers. Both sides  
understand that future plan experience, investment expenence, will ultimately  
determine what will be needed st thai time t maintain or improve the plan's funding  
progress. Furthermore, the collective hargaining agreements requiring contibutions to this  
Furxf are net bargained as part of the muli-cenployer bargaining. Therefore, they de not  
have a uniformed commencement date, expiration date, ar coetract term. I suspect any  
additional changes needed will ultimately be bargained via dome combination of  
contribution and labor concessions 1 rediace benefit accruals.  
Finally, with respect to the recently bargained benefit imorovements, on December 18,  
2103, the Trustess suspended certain benefit already sche@uled wo become  
permanent on Jaquary }, 2004, This sispension was effective March 31. 2004. Gne of the  
participating Locals, 1776, had already negotiated these benefit improvements aa pact of its  
collective bargaining agresments, and at the time of the vate specifically reserved its right  
aad obligation to enforce the benefits should i be unabje to secure and ratify an amended  
contract provision.  
S20) Sete PER SA 27 12 Vet O27? Choe eA rete fea wee  
Ame 17, 2004  
Page 2  
1 Inek forward to bearmg from you. Please call ane if I j  
deal tok iy you have any questions or ned  
Sineerety  
Gene  
Enclosures  
cc: Steve Spencer, Management Counsel  
Stuart Davidson, Union Counse}  
### 4CHEIRON  
   
ee  
Alay Bowman, President Sam Fenaino, Jr., Secratary Treasurer  
   
### UNITEO FOOD & tenn WORKERS UNION AFL-CIO-CLC  
### NOTICE KEK  
After discussions about vendor pack-out  
involving store resets the following has been  
agreed to between Local 1360 and Acme  
Markets regarding resets:  
Resets will be done by vendor personnel, a reset  
meaning the removal of product from shelves  
and the placing of facings of items to be set on  
the aisle. Restocking of the merchandise on the  
shelves will be done by Local 1360 members.  
Members may be scheduled to come in  
following the completion of the reset in order  
not to conflict with the resetting of the aisle.  
### PLEASE POST ON BULLENTIN  
### BOARD  
Duss Doren &  
Dianc Hauser, Acme Markets, Inc. Peg Mi¢hslowski, UFCW Locaj 1360  
     
   
400 Commerce Lana & Rt. 73, West N.J. 08091-9253 « 856-767-4001 » Fax 856-767-1480  
68  
### ADDENDUM 1  
### ACME MARKETS, INC.  
### MAINTENANCE OP ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS  
### PROCESS BY WHICH ACME WILL REMIT ELIGIBILITY INFORMATION  
he  
### CAS D>  
Effective January 1, 2066  
Effective January 1, 2006, in order for a full time employee to continue to be  
cligible for benefits under the UFCW Local 1776 & Participating Employers  
Health and Welfare Fund, such employee must work or be paid for an average  
of 120 bours per month in any rolling two month period. For example, if the  
employee has worked an average of 120 hours per month, during the period of  
November ard December, the employee shall be cligible to continue to  
receive benefits in February, Hf the same employee does not work an average  
of 120 hours during the period of November and December, that employee  
shall cease to be eligible for benefits as of February 1.  
In accordance with paragraph | above, the following shall be the benefit  
eligibility determination periods:  
Hours Worked or Paid Determines Benefit Eligibility For:  
January & February April  
February & March May  
March & April Fune  
April & May fuly  
May & June August  
June & September  
July & August October  
August & September November  
September & October December  
October & November January  
November & December February  
December & January March  
The “Hours Worked or Psid™ months referred to above are defined as fiscal  
months.  
Any full ime employce whe dees not work or is not paid an average of 120  
hours per month during any of the periods set forth in 2 A through L above,  
such employee shall cease to be eligible for benefits in the corresponding  
month set forth above.  
69  
70)  
The employer shall provide the Fund with a report by the 15" day of each  
month, which report shall include the average number of hours worked or paid  
in the two preceding months. For example, by March 15", the employer shall  
provide the Fund with a report which indicates the average number of hours,  
worked or paid for each employee, during the period of January & February,  
Acme MUST communicate to the Fund office when an employee should be  
terminated from benefits. The Fund will not automatically terminate benefits  
based on the average hours report.  
Benefit cligibility for part time employees shall be determined in accordance  
with paragraphs | through 6 above, except that the hours worked or paid  
for part time employees shall be an average of 56 hours per  
month in any rolling two-month period.  
For the purpose of determining the two month average the following periods  
shall be considered hours worked:  
Fund approved disability  
Absence due to an injury or iliness covered by Workers Compensation  
Absence covered by FMLA  
All productive and mon-productive haurs paid under the Collective  
Bargaining Agreement  
ao oe  
Health & Welfare Contribution ~ The employer shall continue to make a  
contribution to the Fund on behalf of each employee who attains or maintains  
eligibility for benefits in accordance with the above. For example, the  
employer shall make a contribution by June 30, based on the eligibility  
report delivered to the Fund on Apnil 1$*.  
— Notes —  
### FOR  
### GENERAL INFORMATION  
### OR GRIEVANCES  
### CALL YOUR  
### BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE  
(610) 940-1776  
1-800-822-3737 (PA) (Toll Free)  
1-866-329-1776 (PA) (Toll Free)  
for working America  
www.ufew1776.org  
   
### FOR  
### HEALTH AND WELFARE INFORMATION  
### . CALL UFCW LOCAL 1776  
### PARTICIPATING EMPLOYERS  
### HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND  
(610) 941-9400  
1-800-458-8618 (PA) (Toll Free)  
### MAIN OFFICE  
LOCAL 1776  
Walton Campus  
3031-A Walton Road  
Suite 201  
Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania 19462  
(610) 940-1776  
1-800-822-3737 (PA) (Toll Free)  
1-866-329-1776 (PA) (Toll Free)  
Ext. 844- Spanish Speaking Representative