9615  
### * AGREEMENT *  
### BY and BETWEEN  
Adams  
Super Food Stores  
       
and  
   
### UNITED FOOD and COMMERCIAL  
### WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION |  
### LOCAL 464A  
### 245 PATERSON AVENUE « LITTLE FALLS, N.J. 07424  
### AFFILIATED WITH AFL-CIO  
     
EFFECTIVE: 12/20/98 EXPIRES: 4/19/03  
### INDEX  
### ADAMS SUPER FOOD STORE  
### APPRENTICE MEAT CUTTERS' RATIO - ARTICLE 47. 24  
BETTER CONDITIONS - ARTICLE 24. ..... cc. ccc eee eee 15  
### BOX MEN - PREMIUM PAY - ARTICLE 37. 19  
BULLETIN BOARDS - ARTICLE 40. cece ee ee eee eee ee 20  
CENTRAL CUTTING PLANT -~ ARTICLE 38............... bac 19  
### CREDIT UNION - ARTICLE 58. ccc 27  
### DEATH IN THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY - ARTICLE 33. 17  
### DELINQUENT CONTRIBUTIONS - ARTICLE 55. 26  
### DEPARTMENT HEADS - ARTICLE 35. 19  
CREDIT UNION - ARTICLE 58. cece cece 27  
### DISCIPLINE, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION- ARTICLE 9. 4  
DUES DEDUCTION - ARTICLE 5. cece ee eee a)  
### EDUCATIONAL BENEFIT FUND - ARTICLE 45. 23  
### EMPLOYMENT - ARTICLE 3. 1  
### ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY PART OF AGREEMENT - ARTICLE 26....... 15  
### EVALUATION OF EMPLOYEES - ARTICLE 54. 26  
EXPIRATION - ARTICLE 59. eee cece eee 28  
### GENERAL PROVISIONS - ARTICLE 34. 2. 18  
### GOVERNMENT ENACTMENT OF MAXIMUM HOURS - ARTICLE 11......... 6  
### GRANTING INFORMATION ON WAGES AND HOURS - ARTICLE 14....... 6  
HOLIDAYS - ARTICLE 16. ccc eee eee cee 7  
JURY DUTY - ARTICLE 32. cc eee eee cece 17  
### LAUNDRY, TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT - ARTICLE 25. 15  
LEAVE OF ABSENCE - ARTICLE 46. ....... . 23  
### LEGAL SERVICE FUND - ARTICLE 44. 22  
LEGISLATIVE CLAUSE - ARTICLE 49. ... cece cece 24  
### LIABILITY CLAUSE - ARTICLE 29. cece cece 16  
LUNCH PERIOD - ARTICLE 18. ........ 12  
### MANAGEMENT - ARTICLE 48. 24  
### MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE - ARTICLE 22. 14  
### MOBILE MEDICAL UNIT - ARTICLE 57. 27  
### NATIONAL GUARD SERVICE RESERVES - ARTICLE 23.  
### NO DISCRIMINATION - ARTICLE 27. tere ee 15  
### NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT - ARTICLE 50. ....... 24  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES - ARTICLE 52. 25  
### PARTNERSHIP AND SEPARATE AGREEMENTS - ARTICLE 12. .......... 6  
PENSION FUND - ARTICLE 42. ..... cece eee teen 20  
### POLICY AND PROCEDURE CHANGES - ARTICLE 53. 26  
### PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR NEW EMPLOYEES - ARTICLE 7. ........- 2  
RECOGNITION - ARTICLE 1. ccc cc ct ee eee eee ee 1  
### REGULAR WORK WEEK AND MAXIMUM HOURS - ARTICLE 17........... 9  
### RELIEF DEPARTMENT HEADS - ARTICLE 39. 20  
REPLACEMENT CLAUSE - ARTICLE ccc cece eee eee ees 25  
REPRESENTATION - ARTICLE 2. cece ccc eee eee eee 1  
REST PERIOD - ARTICLE 19. cece eee eee 12  
### RIGHT TO VISIT STORES - ARTICLE 6. eee ee eee 2  
SAFETY - ARTICLE 36. .. cece eee eee eee 19  
SCALE OF WAGES - ARTICLE 21. eee eee 14  
### SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS - ARTICLE 8. 2  
SHOP STEWARDS - ARTICLE 41. ... cece eee 20  
SICK LEAVE - ARTICLE 31. eee ec ccc eee eee eee 16  
### SUCCESSORS & ASSIGNS - ARTICLE 28. 16  
TIME WORKED - ARTICLE 56. ec eee eee 26  
TRANSFERS - ARTICLE 10. eee eee 5  
UNION SHOP - ARTICLE 4. 2... cece cece eee eee 1  
UNION SIGNS - ARTICLE 15. cece cc eee eee ee eee 6  
UNION SUPPORT - ARTICLE 13. cece ccc eee eee 6  
VACATIONS - ARTICLE 20. ccc cece eee cece eee 12  
### WELFARE SERVICE BENEFIT FUND - ARTICLE 43. 21  
### WORKERS' COMPENSATION AND UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE -  
ARTICLE 306 sce cece ee swe wT eH EES 16  
   
   
### AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT made this 20th day of December, 1998, by and  
between ADAMS SUPER FOOD STORE (hereinafter referred to as the  
### "Employer"), and the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS  
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL #464A, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred  
to as the "Union"), for and on behalf of its members now employed  
and who may be hereafter employed by the Employer and who, in  
this Agreement, shall be designated as "employees".  
### RECOGNITION - ARTICLE 1.  
### The Employer hereby recognizes the UNITED FOOD AND  
### COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL #464A, AFFILIATED WITH THE AFL-  
CIO, as the exclusive representative of its meat, poultry, fish,  
appetizer and delicatessen department employees, both full-time  
and part-time, in the present and future stores of the Employer  
located within the present and future jurisdictional area of the  
said Local Union within the States of New Jersey and New York.  
### REPRESENTATION - ARTICLE 2.  
It is further agreed that the accredited official of the  
Union will constitute the Union representative in all  
negotiations between the Employer and the Union.  
### EMPLOYMENT - ARTICLE 3.  
The Employer, on requiring additional or new help will  
secure the same from the Employment Office of the Union  
providing, however, such individuals qualify. The Union agrees  
that its Employment Office will not discriminate against non-  
union applicants. All new employees will secure a work card from  
the Union Office or from a Union official prior to commencing  
work.  
### UNION SHOP - ARTICLE 4.  
A. All employees covered by this Agreement shall, as a  
condition of employment become members of the Union on or after  
the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of such  
employment or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is  
the later, and shall thereafter maintain their membership in the  
Union in good standing.  
B. Any employee who is expelled or suspended from the  
Union because of non-payment of initiation fees and dues  
(including such other obligations to the Union, failure to pay  
which would make an employee subject to discharge under the  
   
Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947) shall be subject to  
dismissal after notification in writing to the Employer by the  
Union provided, however, that the employee may have a reasonable  
time within which to make such payments of initiation fees or  
dues, the failure of payment of which has caused the expulsion or  
suspension.  
### DEDUCTION - ARTICLE 5.  
The Employer will deduct weekly from each employee dues and  
initiation fees that may be due the Union, provided the employee  
has authorized the deduction in writing. The deductions will  
start with the first (lst) week following thirty (30) days of  
employment and each succeeding week thereafter. Such deductions  
will be forwarded monthly to the Secretary-Treasurer, together  
with a list setting forth the name and social security number of  
each employee and the amount of money remitted on his or her  
behalf.  
### RIGHT TO VISIT STORES - ARTICLE 6.  
It is mutually agreed that the authorized representatives of  
the Union have the right to visit the Employer's stores at any  
time to check working conditions, examine payrolls and otherwise  
insure proper compliance with this contract. The authorized  
representatives of the Union will make a good faith effort to  
notify the Store Manager or his designee of his presence prior to  
beginning his visit to the store.  
### PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR NEW EMPLOYEES - ARTICLE 7.  
   
The trial period for new employees shall be the first (lst)  
sixty (60) days of employment.  
### SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS - ARTICLE 8.  
A. The Employer recognizes the principles of seniority and  
shall be governed by these principles in the matters of layoffs  
and recalls as provided in Paragraph E below.  
B. Seniority is defined as the employee's continuous  
length of employment with the Employer. An employee's seniority  
shall be considered broken in the event of any of the following:  
The employee quits or resigns.  
The employee is discharged for cause.  
The employee's rights to recall have expired.  
The employee fails to return to work in accordance  
with the terms of leave of absence without prior approval by the  
Employer.  
  
C. The Employer shall furnish the Union quarterly with a  
seniority list containing the names, store identifications,  
social security number, job classifications, dates of hire, dates  
of birth and rates of pay of all its employees subject to this  
Agreement. In addition, the Employer will supply bi-weekly the  
names, job titles, locations and pay of all new employees and all  
terminations.  
D. Full-time employees will not be laid off before part-  
time employees in the same classification within a mutually  
agreed upon geographical area, provided such full-time employees  
are available on a part-time basis for the hours required to be  
worked within the classification. It is not the Employer's  
intent to replace the full-time work force with a part-time work  
force, nor is it the intent of the Union to eliminate the part-  
time work force.  
E. Employees shall be laid off within classification only  
after one (1) week's notice in writing to the Union and the  
employee; however, in the event that unusual circumstances beyond  
the control of the Employer, including but not limited to  
emergencies or acts of God, consumer boycotts and leafletting,  
reduce the need for employees on a_= short-term basis, the  
foregoing notice provision shall be reduced from one (1) week to  
eight (8) hours. All laid off employees will retain rights of  
recall for one (1) year. No new employee shall be hired until  
all laid off employees have been recalled. Notice of any recall  
will be by certified mail sent to the home of the employee with a  
copy to the Union. The employee must return to work within seven  
(7) days of receipt of letter or forfeit all rights to recall.  
All recalls will be on a seniority basis. The provisions of this  
subsection E shall be applicable only after six (6) months of  
continuous service with the Employer.  
F. An employee absent because of illness (including  
maternity) or accident, including worker's compensation, shall  
retain seniority rights for eighteen (18) months. The provisions  
of this subsection F shall be applicable only after six (6)  
months of continuous service with the Employer. Absences of  
sixty (60) days or less shall not adversely affect wage  
progressions, personal holidays or sick leave entitlements. The  
Employer may require physical examinations by a Medical Doctor.  
Such examinations will be solely at the expense of the Employer.  
G. Full-time employees with one (1) year or more of  
continuous service who are laid off through no fault of their own  
shall be given preference for part-time employment and guaranteed  
a minimum of sixteen (16) hours and a maximum of twenty-nine (29)  
hours of work per week by classification at his or her full-time  
hourly rate of pay.  
   
H. In a store where a full-time employee is laid off, no  
part-time employee shall be hired in the store within the same  
classification where the layoff took place until such time as the  
employee last laid off shall be returned to full employment,  
unless the employee's rights of recall has expired, or unless the  
last laid off full-time employee has declined such part-time  
employment as is made available by the Employer.  
i. Employees of acquired stores who are hired and retained  
after the completion of their probationary period shall have  
seniority for layoff purposes only among themselves in the  
acquired stores, but not over other employees employed by the  
Employer prior to any such acquisition.  
### DISCIPLINE, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION  
ee td eS ee ES SS SS ee ee eee  
### ARTICLE. 9.  
A. No employee shall be disciplined or discharged except  
for just cause including, but not limited to intoxication,  
dishonesty, incompetency or inability to perform the job. An  
employee has the legal right to be represented by a Shop Steward  
or Business Representative during any investigatory interview  
with the Employer which could lead to discipline. Use of  
discipline records is limited to three (3) years prior to the  
date of the incident.  
B. If the Union and the Employer cannot agree as to the  
justification of the discipline and/or the discharge, the dispute  
shall be submitted to arbitration.  
on The Employer shall submit written notice of an  
employee's discharge from employment to the Union by certified  
mail within seven (7) days from the date of such discharge. If  
the Union decides to proceed to arbitration concerning an  
employee's discharge, it shall notify the Employer by certified  
mail of its intention to proceed to arbitration within sixty (60)  
days of receipt of the Employer's notice of discharge.  
D. Any disputes, differences or grievances arising out of  
the interpretation, application, breach or claim of breach of the  
provisions of this Agreement shall be settled solely and  
exclusively in the following manner:  
i. By conference with the duly authorized officials  
of the Union and a representative of the Employer designated by  
the executive in charge of the Employer's unit.  
2 In the event that such dispute, difference or  
grievance shall not have been satisfactorily adjusted between the  
parties in the manner provided above, then such dispute,  
difference or grievance arising out of the interpretation,  
application, breach or claim of breach of the provisions of this  
Agreement shall be submitted to arbitration at the request of  
either party to the respective New York or New Jersey Board of  
Mediation.  
E. The decision of the arbitrator designated by the  
Mediation Board shall be final and binding upon the parties. The  
parties agree that the expenses of arbitration shall be borne  
equally between them.  
F. The arbitrator shall not have the power to arbitrate  
provisions of a new Agreement, or to arbitrate away in whole or  
in part any provisions of this Agreement, nor shall he have the  
power to add to, delete from or modify the provisions of this  
Agreement.  
G. Any employee who shall, at the discretion of the  
arbitrator be required to testify at or attend any hearings or  
arbitration, mediation or settlement of any question of  
violations of this Agreement shall not suffer any loss in wages  
by reason thereof.  
H. Any and all rights applicable to an employee shall be  
asserted, discussed and adjusted solely and exclusively by the  
duly authorized officials of the Union and not by an individual  
member acting on his or her own behalf.  
### TRANSFERS - ARTICLE 10.  
A. The Employer shall consider seniority at store level by  
classification as well as sound business reasons in making  
transfers.  
B. If an employee is temporarily or permanently  
transferred more than twenty-five (25) miles beyond the mileage  
from his or her home store, he or she shall receive twenty ($.20)  
cents per mile for each such additional mile traveled. The home  
store is defined as the store to which the employee was  
permanently assigned as of January 15, 1987.  
Cs No travel pay shall be due in the event of a transfer  
caused by a store closing, a promotion or a lack of seniority to  
retain a job at store level.  
D. The Employer shall notify the Union and the employee in  
writing seven (7) days in advance of a permanent transfer.  
E. Temporary transfers shall be limited to a maximum of  
two (2) weeks.  
F. The seniority of an employee shall not be affected by a  
  
   
G. There will be no reduction in nor elimination of travel  
pay being paid at the beginning of this Agreement because of an  
interpretation of this Article.  
H. Unreasonable or punitive transfers shall be subject to  
the grievance procedure.  
I. No employee shall suffer a reduction in pay because of  
a transfer from one location to another.  
### GOVERNMENT ENACTMENT OF MAXIMUM HOURS - ARTICLE il.  
Should any law be enacted by the United States Government or  
State Government which will fix a maximum hours work week for  
retail food markets at a point lower than that specified herein,  
then such work week shall become the maximum work week for the  
employees affected by this Agreement for the unexpired term of  
this Agreement.  
### PARTNERSHIP AND SEPARATE AGREEMENTS - ARTICLE 12.  
The Employer agrees that it will not enter into individual  
contracts or partnerships with its employees during the term of  
this Agreement.  
### UNION SUPPORT - ARTICLE 13.  
The Union agrees to do everything within its power to  
enforce the rules and and, through advice,  
instruction and example, maintain the standard of work. The  
Union agrees to take the necessary disciplinary measures where  
justified complaints are made by the Employer against an employee  
or employees.  
### GRANTING INFORMATION ON WAGES AND HOURS - ARTICLE 14.  
It is agreed between the Union and the Employer that the  
Employer will furnish to the Union detailed information as to  
wages paid to any Union member.  
### UNION SIGNS - ARTICLE 15.  
The Union agrees to furnish the Employer at least one (1)  
Union store card for each of the Employer's stores, to be hung  
and displayed in the Meat Department and to be visible to all.  
Such cards remain the property of and shall be surrendered to the  
Union on demand.  
### HOLIDAYS - ARTICLE 16.  
   
A. The following holidays shall be observed, depending on  
eligibility as set forth in paragraphs C, D, and G below.  
New Year's Day Election Day (November)  
Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day  
Independence Day Christmas Day  
Labor Day Five (5) Personal Days  
B. In addition, if Christmas or New Year's Eves fall on  
the full-time employees' regularly scheduled work day, one-half  
(1/2) of the employees working shall be scheduled off Christmas  
Eve one (1) hour earlier with pay and the remaining half (1/2)  
scheduled off New Year's Eve one (1) hour earlier with pay.  
Cc. Employees shall be eligible to receive the following  
holidays after six (6) months of continuous service:  
New Year's Day Thanksgiving Day  
Memorial Day Christmas Day  
Independence Day Two (2) Personal Days  
Labor Day  
D; Employees shall be eligible to receive the following  
additional holidays after thirty-six (36) months of continuous  
service:  
Election Day  
Three (3) additional personal days  
E. Personal days shall be earned beginning with each  
contract year and may be taken by the employee upon giving ten  
(10) days notice to the Store Manager. Personal days shall be  
selected by employees with mutual agreement by the Store Manager.  
Personal days for employees hired after February 9, 1991, shall  
be earned and may be taken pursuant to the schedule set forth in  
section F.  
F. Employees entitled to two (2) personal days during the  
first thirty-six (36) months of employment shall be entitled to  
take one (1) personal day during each six (6) months of the  
contract year. Employees entitled to five (5) personal days  
Shall be entitled to use one (1) personal day per. calendar  
quarter of each contract year except for the first (lst) year of  
employment when they will be eligible for one (1) personal day  
after six months. The fifth (5th) personal day shall be taken  
during the first (lst) half of the calendar year.  
G. 1. Part-time employees with six (6) months or more of  
continuous service shall receive the same paid holidays as full-  
time employees in Section C of this Article above, including two  
(2) personal days. Employees hired on or before February 9, 1991  
shall receive holiday pay on a pro-rata basis and shall be  
guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours as holiday pay. Employees  
hired after February 9, 1991 shall receive four (4) hours as  
holiday pay.  
G. 2. Part-time employees shall be eligible to receive  
the additional holidays set forth in Section D of this Article  
above after thirty-six (36) months of continuous service.  
 #H, 1. In the event any employee is required to work any  
of the above holidays, he or she shall receive time and one-half  
(1-1/2) the straight time rate for all hours worked in addition  
to holiday pay. Employees hired after February 9, 1991 must be  
eligible to receive holiday pay in order to be eligible to  
receive premium pay for work on the holiday. Any employee who  
works on a holiday shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4)  
hours of work.  
H. 2. Part-time Prepared Food/Service Clerks (new to the  
industry) hired on or after January 5, 1999, working in all  
departments except the meat department, shall receive a premium  
of $1.50 per hour in addition to their hourly rate of pay for  
each hour worked when eligible for the holiday during their first  
thirty (30) months of service. Thereafter, they shall receive  
time and one-half (1-1/2) the straight-time hourly rate for all  
hours worked on holidays. Employees working in the industry on  
January 5, 1999 who are employed by the Company shall receive  
time and one-half (1-1/2) the straight-time hourly rate for all  
hours worked on a holiday when eligible for said holiday.  
I. When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday  
shall be observed as the holiday. Federal Government determined  
Monday Holidays shall be observed on Monday.  
J. The basic work week for full-time employees in a  
holiday week shall be thirty-two (32) hours for forty (40) hours'  
pay. Time and one-half (1-1/2) shall be paid for all time worked  
after thirty-two (32) hours. Employees may work a fifth (Sth)  
day during a holiday week at their straight-time rate of pay by  
mutual consent.  
K. Work on holidays shall be rotated fairly amongst all  
full-time and part-time employees.  
L. There shall be no rescheduling of employees in a  
holiday week.  
M. No employee shall be required to work on Easter Sunday  
or December 25th.  
N. Employees shall be required to work the scheduled day  
before and the scheduled day after the holiday to be eligible for  
holiday pay except when excused for good or just cause.  
8  
   
### REGULAR WORK WEEK AND MAXIMUM HOURS - ARTICLE 17.  
   
A. A week's work for all full-time employees shall consist  
of forty (40) hours per week divided into eight (8) hours per day  
over a period of five (5) days, Monday through Saturday. All  
work in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or forty  
(40) hours in any one (1) week, but not both, shall be paid for  
at one and one-half (1-1/2) the straight-time rate. Full-time  
employees are defined as those working thirty (30) hours per week  
or more Monday through Saturday.  
B. 1. There shall be no split shifts. There shall be a  
first shift starting time between 6:00 A.M. and 9:00 A.M. for  
each full-time employee, hired before January 15, 1984, including  
Sunday.  
B. 2 i There shall be no split shifts. There shall be a  
first shift starting time between 6:00 A.M. and 10:00 A.M. for  
each full-time employee hired on or after January 15, 1984,  
excluding Sunday. The starting time on Sunday shall be between  
6:00 A.M. and 11:00 A.M.  
B. a. There shall be no split shifts. There shall be a  
second shift starting time between 11:00 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. for  
each full-time employee, including Sunday.  
Assignment of the second shift shall be made in the  
following order:  
1. New Hires,  
2. Volunteers,  
3. Night Crew,  
4. Employees Hired After January 1, 1979 by  
Inverse Order of Seniority.  
5. To Protect an Employee From Layoff.  
Cc. The starting times in Section B shall be uniform for  
employees hired or appointed prior to January 1, 1995, except  
that one day in each work week a full-time employee may be  
scheduled to begin work at any time within the said starting time  
at the employee's straight-time hourly rate. Any work performed  
before the starting time will be paid at the rate of time and  
one-half (1-1/2). Full-time employees hired or appointed on or  
after January 1, 1995 who are assigned to work on the first shift  
may be scheduled to work two (2) days a week on the second shift.  
All full-time employees who are currently assigned or who may be  
assigned in the future on the second shift may be scheduled to  
work three (3) days a week on the first shift on a seniority  
basis.  
   
D. If a full-time employee is called in to work on his or  
her regularly scheduled day off, he or she shall be paid time and  
one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked. However, in the event a  
pattern of absenteeism is established, an employee may be  
required to work a minimum of forty (40) hours in such weeks in  
order to receive the premium pay as above. Part-time employees  
called in to work on their scheduled day off shall be guaranteed  
a minimum of four (4) hours of work at straight time.  
E. The Employer guarantees to schedule its regular full-  
time employees forty (40) hours of work per week.  
F. 1. Part-time employees hired before January 15, 1984  
shall be scheduled a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week,  
Monday through Saturday.  
F. 2. Paragraph F.l. not withstanding, part-time  
employees hired before January 15, 1984 may be scheduled a  
minimum of sixteen (16) hours and a maximum of twenty-nine (29)  
hours in a four (4) consecutive week period provided, however,  
the total hours scheduled in the four (4) week period must equal  
at least eighty (80) hours.  
F. Bs Part-time employees hired on or after January 15,  
1984 shall be scheduled a minimum of sixteen (16) hours per week,  
Monday through Saturday.  
F. 4. Part-time employees hired after February 9, 1991  
shall be scheduled a minimum of twelve (12) hours of work per  
week, Monday through Saturday. Upon completion of eighteen  
months of continuous service, the employee may request a review  
of his scheduled hours and the Employer shall schedule four (4)  
additional hours per week, if the employee so desires increasing  
the minimum guarantee to sixteen (16) hours per week.  
F. 5 . Any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in  
any one (1) day shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half  
(1-1/2). Part-time employees are defined as those working  
between twelve (12) and twenty-nine (29) hours per week, Monday  
through Saturday. No employee shall be hired to work less than  
twelve (12) hours per week. Any part-time employee working six  
(6) consecutive weeks of thirty (30) hours or more will become a  
full-time employee, except while relieving for vacation, extended  
illness or any extenuating circumstances.  
G. 1. Sunday shall not be part of the work week. In the  
event a store is open for business on Sunday, the work in the  
Meat Department shall be rotated fairly using a ratio of one (1)  
full-time employee to two (2) part-time employees. All employees  
working on Sunday shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4)  
hours! work.  
10  
2. If there is work available in the Meat Department,  
the meat wrapper shall be included in the rotation either in the  
Meat Department or the Deli Department for Sunday work.  
H. Full-time employees hired before January 15, 1984 who  
work on Sunday shall be paid pursuant to the following schedule:  
1. Full-time employees employed as Meat Department  
Heads, Journeyman Butchers and full-time employees employed in  
the Fish and Poultry Departments at the top rate shall receive  
their applicable hourly rate plus a $12.00 per hour premium.  
2. Deli and Appy Department Heads shall receive their  
applicable hourly rates plus a $10.00 per hour premium.  
3. All other full-time employees at the top rate  
shall receive their applicable hourly rate plus $9.00 per hour  
premium.  
4. Employees receiving the aforementioned Sunday  
premium rates shall continue to receive such rate until the  
Sunday premium rate is equivalent to the employee's hourly rate  
at time and one-half (1-1/2). Then, in such event, the employee  
shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked on  
Sundays.  
I. co All full-time employees hired after January 15,  
(ea and all part-time employees shall receive one and one- half  
(1-1/2) times their straight-time rate for work performed on  
Sunday.  
I. 2. Part-time Prepared Food/Service Clerks (new to the  
industry) hired on or after January 5, 1999, working in all.  
departments except the meat department, shall receive a premium  
of $1.50 per hour in addition to their hourly rate of pay for  
each hour worked on Sundays during the first thirty (30) months  
of service. Thereafter, they shall receive time and one-half (1-  
1/2) the straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on  
Sundays. Employees working in the industry on January 5, 1999,  
who are employed by the Company, shall receive time and one-half  
(1-1/2) the straight-time, hourly rate for all hours worked on  
Sundays.  
J. The Employer shall post work schedules in ink by Friday  
6:00 P.M. of each week for the following week. Once posted, work  
schedules will not be changed except for sound business reasons  
such as, but not limited to, fire, flood and power failures.  
K. Night shifts shall be scheduled from 12:01 A.M. to 8:30  
A.M. (which shall include a one-half (1/2) hour lunch period)  
five (5) consecutive nights Monday through Saturday. At least  
two (2) employees will be on duty at all times.  
11  
The Night Shift premiums shall be:  
Night Shift Head........... eee eee eee $25.00 per week  
Full-Time Night Shift Employee......... $15.00 per week  
Part-Time Night Shift Employee......... $ 3.00 per night  
L. Any employee will be permitted to promptly examine his  
or her own time card or payroll record upon request at store  
level.  
M. Overtime shall be fairly rotated among all full-time  
employees within classification.  
### LUNCH PERIOD - ARTICLE 18.  
All full-time employees shall be guaranteed at least one-  
half (1/2) hour for lunch, as close to the middle of their shift  
as possible. If employees are required to work overtime, one-half  
(1/2) hour for supper shall be granted which shall not be deemed  
as hours worked providing the overtime shall be of at least two  
(2) hours duration.  
### REST PERIOD - ARTICLE 19.  
A. All full-time employees shall be granted a fifteen (15)  
minute rest period twice a day, once in the first half of the  
shift and once in the second half of the shift, which rest period  
shall be deemed as time worked. No full-time employee shall be  
_ required to punch a time card in and out or to sign a time sheet  
in and out for any rest period.  
B. All part-time employees shall receive a fifteen (15)  
minute rest period for every four (4) hours of work. Part-time  
employees may be required to punch in and punch out for rest  
periods.  
### VACATIONS - ARTICLE 20.  
A. All full-time employees hired before January 15, 1984  
shall receive the following vacations with pay:  
After 1 year of service............. 2 weeks' vacation  
(One of which may be taken after 6 months of service)  
After 6 years of: service.............3 weeks' vacation  
After 12 years of service............ 4 weeks' vacation  
After 25 years of service............. S weeks! vacation  
12  
B. Part-time employees hired before January 15,1984 shall  
have the same vacation benefits as full-time employees hired  
before January 15, 1984 on a pro-rata basis. Vacation benefits  
for such part-time employees shall be based on the average of the  
calendar year prior to the vacation but in no event to be less  
than twenty (20) hours per week.  
Cc. All full-time employees hired on or after January 15,  
1984 shall receive the following vacations with pay:  
After 1 year of service.............. 1 week's vacation  
After three (3) years of service...... 2 weeks' vacation  
After eight (8) years of service...... 3 weeks' vacation  
After fourteen (14) years of service..4 weeks' vacation  
Ds Part-time employees hired on or after January 15, 1984  
shall receive the same vacation benefits as full-time employees  
hired on or after January 15, 1984 on a pro-rata basis. Vacation  
benefits for such part-time employees shall be based on the  
average of the calendar year prior to the vacation but in no  
event to be less than sixteen (16) hours per week. The vacation  
benefit for employees hired after February 9, 1991 shall be no  
less than twelve (12) hours per week except that the employee may  
request a review of his scheduled hours after eighteen (18)  
months of continuous service and shall receive a vacation benefit  
of sixteen (16) hours per week if he is so scheduled.  
E. Vacation pay for a full-time employee shall be computed  
on the basis of the employee's straight-time earnings, including  
all premiums (night shifts and box pay).  
F. All vacations become due on each anniversary (hire)  
date of the employee and may be taken during the ensuing twelve  
(12) months. Two (2) weeks only may be taken during the summer  
months. Those employees eligible for three (3), four (4) and  
five (5) weeks of vacation will take them outside these summer  
months by mutual consent.  
G. Employees will be paid vacation pay prior to taking the  
vacation by separate check or computed to avoid tax penalty.  
H. In the event of a transfer, an employee shall not lose  
a previously scheduled vacation.  
I. The Employer shall determine the number of employees,  
if any, within each classification in each store who may be on  
vacation at the same time.  
J. Employees who voluntarily retire or resign with two (2)  
weeks' written notice or who are involuntarily terminated by the.  
Employer, except for dishonesty when sustained by an arbitrator  
13  
or when the employee so charged fails to file a grievance or when  
the grievance is not processed to arbitration, shall receive pro  
rata vacation pay within two (2) weeks after the time of the  
termination.  
K. Any employee who receives his or her vacation during a  
holiday week shall receive, at the option of the Employer, one  
(1) extra day's pay or one (1) additional day off the week  
immediately following.  
L. The vacation entitlement of employees absent because of  
illness, injury or authorized leave of absence (but not including  
vacation, sick leave days or death in the family leave) for sixty  
(60) days or less, shall not be adversely affected.  
M. Vacation pay due a deceased employee (including pro  
rata as in J above) shall be paid to the heirs or estate of the  
deceased employee.  
N. Vacations shall be granted to employees on a Company  
seniority store level basis.  
### SCALE OF WAGES - ARTICLE 21.  
A. The weekly scale of wages shall be as appears in  
Schedule "A", "B" or "C" attached hereto and made a part of this  
Agreement and shall not be reduced during the term of this  
Agreement.  
B. Payday shall be the same day each week. If payday is  
normally on Friday, the Employer shall make every effort to pay  
employees before 12:00 noon. If payday falls on a holiday, the  
Employer shall make every effort to distribute pay the day before  
the holiday.  
### MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE - ARTICLE 22.  
   
In the event that any employee now or hereafter becomes  
engaged in military or naval service of the United States of  
America for the purpose of training or otherwise, then and in  
such event he shall be given a leave of absence for such period  
of service without prejudice to his seniority rights or  
privileges. Upon the termination of his service, he shall he  
reinstated within a period of ninety (90) days from the date of  
his discharge from Government service and given the same job  
which he held at the time he left for service and shall be fully  
compensated in accordance with the provisions contained herein or  
pursuant to the Agreement which had been in effect at the time of  
his resumption of service with the Employer.  
14  
### NATIONAL GUARD SERVICE RESERVES - ARTICLE 23.  
   
A. Any full-time employee who is a member of an organized  
reserve program or in the National Guard shall be eligible for a  
two (2) week leave of absence, subject to extension in  
exceptional cases, without pay.  
B. Such leave of absence may be in addition to the  
employee's regularly scheduled vacation period in order that the  
employee may participate in the military training required by  
organization.  
C. Any employee who wishes to use his regular vacation  
period for military absence shall be paid in accordance with the  
regular vacation procedure.  
### BETTER CONDITIONS - ARTICLE 24.  
Nothing in this Agreement shall operate to deprive any  
employee of a special privilege or to reduce the present wage or  
increase the working time of any employee covered under the  
provisions of this Agreement.  
### LAUNDRY, TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT - ARTICLE 25.  
All linens required by the Employer to be worn by the  
employee will be furnished and laundered by the Employer. The  
Employer shall supply all tools and equipment in a.good and  
workable condition to all employees requiring the same without  
any cost to the employees.  
### ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY PART OF AGREEMENT - ARTICLE 26.  
The parties hereto agree that should any section, part or  
paragraph of this Agreement be declared by established courts to  
be unlawful, invalid, ineffective, or unenforceable, said  
section, part or paragraph so declared shall not affect the  
validity and enforceability of any other section, part or  
paragraph hereof, and the remainder of this Agreement shall  
continue to remain in full force and effect.  
### NO DISCRIMINATION - ARTICLE 27.  
There shall be no discrimination against any employee by the  
Employer or Union regardless of race, color, creed, sex or  
nationality in the matter of hours, wages or working conditions,  
except that the Employer will have the right to choose and  
designate the type of employee whenever the said Employer applies  
15  
for an employee to the Union, and the Union agrees to furnish the  
type of employee so designated.  
### SUCCESSORS & ASSIGNS - ARTICLE 28.  
This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the  
benefit of the respective parties hereto and to their respective  
heirs and assigns.  
### LIABILITY CLAUSE - ARTICLE 29.  
It is further agreed between the respective parties that no  
liability shall be chargeable to the Union for any act of its  
members and the only liability of the Union shall be such as may  
be agreed to in writing by the Union and such agreement signed by  
an officer duly qualified and authorized by the members of the  
Union.  
### WORKERS' COMPENSATION AND UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE  
### ARTICLE 30.  
The Employer agrees to cover its employees under Worker's  
Compensation and Unemployment Insurance regardless of the number  
of employees presently employed.  
### SICK LEAVE - ARTICLE 31.  
A. All full-time employees hired before January 15, 1984  
are eligible to receive in each calendar year a maximum of twelve  
(12) paid sick leave days of eight (8) hours each or pay for  
unused sick leave days.  
B. All employees hired or appointed to full-time after  
January 15, 1984 shall be eligible to receive the following sick  
leave days of eight (8) hours each or pay for unused sick leave  
days:  
After six (6) months ............... 3 days  
After twelve (12) months ........... 5 days  
After twenty-four (24) months ...... 8 days  
After thirty-six (36) months ....... 10 days  
Terminated full-time employees except those terminated  
for dishonesty, when sustained by an arbitrator, or when the  
employee so charged fails to file a grievance, or when the  
grievance is not processed to arbitration, will be paid the  
unused portion of their sick leave on a pro-rata basis thirty  
(30) days after termination subject to the formula set forth in  
Sections A or B of this Article above, whichever is applicable.  
16  
D. Unused sick leave/bonus days will be paid to full-time  
employees, and payment will be made during the first (lst)  
thirty (30) days following the end of the calendar year.  
E. Sick leave benefits for any employee will be paid no  
later than the second (2nd) week following return from sick  
leave.  
F. Part-time employees hired before January 15, 1984, with  
six (6) months of continuous service, shall be eligible to  
receive in each calendar year six (6) paid sick leave days  
beginning with the second (2nd) scheduled sick leave day.  
G. All part-time employees hired on or after January 15,  
1984 with one (1) year of continuous service shall be eligible to  
receive in each calendar year a maximum of five (5) paid sick  
leave days beginning with the second scheduled sick leave day.  
H. Part-time sick leave shall be based on the average  
hours of the five (5) weeks preceding the sick leave during which  
work was performed but at no time less than four (4) hours per  
day.  
### JURY DUTY - ARTICLE 32.  
A. Employees shall be eligible to receive jury duty  
benefits after one (1) year of continuous service. Any employee  
called to serve as petit jurors shall be paid the difference in  
pay between base pay and the amount received for jury service for  
a maximum of ten (10) days in any one (1) year period. Employees  
called to serve as grand jurors shall be paid for a maximum of  
twenty (20) days in any one (1) year period. However, employees  
who volunteer for grand jury service shall be paid for a maximum  
of ten (10) days in any one (1) year period.  
B. An employee dismissed from Jury Duty sufficiently early  
to enable the employee to work four (4) hours or more of a  
scheduled shift, including reasonable travel time, shall report  
to the store to complete the shift.  
Cc. If a full-time employee is called for Jury Service for  
less than five (5) days, the employee will report to work for the  
number of days he or she was not called to Jury Service.  
D. Part-time employees shall receive the same jury service  
benefits as full-time employees based on their normal part-time  
schedule after one (1) year of continuous service.  
### DEATH IN THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY - ARTICLE 33.  
A. All full-time employees with six (6) months or more of  
continuous service shall be entitled to the next three (3)  
17  
scheduled days off and pay therefor in the event of death in the  
employee's immediate family. Immediate family is defined to mean  
parents, mother-in-law, father-in-law, child, sister, brother,  
wife or husband, grandparents of employee or and  
grandchildren.  
B. The employee's scheduled day off and Sunday shall not  
count as any part of the three (3) days.  
c. In the event of the death of a brother-in-law or  
sister-in-law, the employee shall be granted one (1) scheduled  
day off and pay therefor to attend the funeral services.  
D. Part-time employees shall be eligible to receive death  
leave benefits, after one (1) year of continuous service in the  
event of a death in the employee's immediate family as defined in  
paragraph A immediately above. Part-time employees shall be  
entitled to up to three (3) scheduled days off from the date of  
death to the date of the funeral at four (4) hours' pay per  
scheduled day.  
### GENERAL PROVISIONS - ARTICLE 34.  
A. Employees in the 464A bargaining unit shall not be  
transferred to another bargaining unit in the store. Local 464A  
members may be transferred to another 464A department for lunch  
relief and emergencies. The Employer shall have the right to  
interchange, on a temporary basis, Meat Wrapper and  
Deli/Appy/Seafood Clerks for lunch periods, emergencies and to  
provide adequate customer service.  
B. Supervisors shall not use the tools of the trade except  
for store openings and training, or emergencies with notification  
to the Union.  
‘om The meat wrapper shall not perform the duties of the  
meat cutter. However, the Union and the Employer shall work  
together to maximize customer service in the meat department.  
D. The Employer and the Union will discuss the  
establishment of a reasonable dress code policy.  
E. The Employer shall comply with State laws governing lie  
detector tests.  
F. The Union agrees to use its best efforts to ensure that  
the stores are adequately staffed on Sundays and Holidays.  
18  
### DEPARTMENT HEADS - ARTICLE 35.  
A. The Employer shall notify the Union and the employee  
one (1) week in advance, in writing, on demotion of Department  
Heads setting forth reasons for demotion and the Union shall have  
the right to investigate same before demotion is effective.  
B. Department Heads demoted shall be returned to same  
classification before promotion at the rate of pay he or she  
received before the promotion, plus contract increases.  
on If a Department Head voluntarily requests demotion, he  
or she shall be returned promptly to the classification held  
before promotion at the rate of pay he or she received before the  
promotion, plus contract increases. Any excessive delay in  
acting on the voluntary request shall be subject to the grievance  
procedure.  
### SAFETY - ARTICLE 36.  
A. The Employer and the Union shall jointly form a Safety  
Committee of six (6) -- three (3) from Management and three (3)  
from Labor. The Committee shall work ttoward providing all  
employees the safest possible equipment and working conditions.  
The Employer shall provide whatever statistical information is  
required.  
B. Journeymen Meat Cutters and Boxmen shall be. supplied  
with leather or mesh aprons and mesh gloves while performing box  
work upon request.  
C. Employees shall not be required to enter delivery  
vehicles which are unsafe.  
D. Wrapping machines will be equipped with the cool rod  
type or mechanical cutter.  
E. The Employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to  
limit box meat to no more than 100 pounds.  
### BOX MEN - PREMIUM PAY - ARTICLE 37.  
All box men shall receive ten ($10.00) dollars per week  
premium pay.  
### CENTRAL CUTTING PLANT - ARTICLE 38.  
The Employer agrees not to establish a central meat cutting  
plant during the life of this Agreement. Notwithstanding this  
provision, the parties agree to discuss this Article.  
19  
### RELIEF DEPARTMENT HEADS - ARTICLE 39.  
A. Full-time employees relieving any Department Head shall  
be paid from the first (lst) day as relief Department Head in the  
event relief duties extend after three (3) days as relief manager  
in any one (1) week.  
B. Full-time employees relieving for vacation periods  
shall be paid the contractual rate from the first (lst) day. No  
part time employee will perform the duties of or relieve the Meat  
Manager at any time.  
### BULLETIN BOARDS - ARTICLE 40.  
The Union shall share existing bulletin boards in markets  
for the use of regular Union notices to the members.  
### SHOP STEWARDS - ARTICLE 41.  
A. The Union shall have the right to appoint or to have  
elected a Shop Steward who shall have superseniority for layoff  
purposes.  
B. Shop Stewards, Executive Board and Policy Board members  
shall be permitted to attend one (1) day of Local #464A seminars  
a calendar year for which they shall be paid eight (8) hours.  
### PENSION FUND - ARTICLE 42.  
### A. The Employer shall contribute One Hundred Forty Dollars  
($140.00) per month for each full-time employee to the Pension  
Fund of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local  
#464A, at no cost to the employee.  
B. All contributions to the Pension Fund for newly hired  
full-time employees shall commence the first of the month  
following the first thirty (30) days of employment.  
Contributions for Local #464A members start immediately upon  
employment.  
Cc. The Employer shall contribute Forty-One Dollars  
($41.00) per month for each part-time employee to the Pension  
Fund of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local  
#464A, beginning with the first of the month following six (6)  
months of employment, at no cost to the employee.  
D. In the event an employee is out because of ‘illness or  
an approved leave of absence, the Employer shall continue to make  
contributions to the Union Pension Fund on behalf of the employee  
20  
on the same basis as if the employee was working for a period of  
time not to exceed two (2) monthly contributions.  
E. The parties agree that the contributions to the Pension  
Fund shall be deductible in full for the employer's taxable year  
with respect to which the contribution made. The  
determination as to the deductibility shall be based on the  
information furnished by the Fund Actuary concerning the funding  
status of the Pension Fund at the time the contribution would be  
due. In the event that the contributions required by this  
Article are not deductible, the parties agree that the said  
contributions will be diverted to the Welfare Service Benefit  
Fund. All current and future negotiated Welfare Service Benefit  
Fund contributions provided for in this Agreement are to continue  
in full force and effect without setoff or deduction.  
### WELFARE SERVICE BENEFIT FUND - ARTICLE 43.  
A. Effective January 1, 1999 the Employer shall contribute  
Three Hundred and Forty-Five Dollars ($345.00) per month for each  
full-time employee to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund of the  
United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A, at no cost  
to the employee.  
B. Effective January 1, 2000, the contribution to the  
Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each full-time employee shall be  
Four Hundred and Ten Dollars ($410.00) per month.  
Cc. Effective January 1, 2001, the contribution to the  
Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each full-time employee shall be  
Four Hundred and Sixty Dollars ($460.00) per month.  
D. Effective January 1, 2002, the contribution to the  
Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each full-time employee shall be  
Four Hundred Seventy-five Dollars ($475.00) per month.  
E. All contributions to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund  
for full-time employees shall commence the first of the month  
following six (6) months of employment. Contributions for Local  
#464A members shall be made immediately provided the employee was  
covered by the Fund within ninety (90) days prior to the  
employee's date of hire.  
F.1. Employer shall contribute Sixty-Four Dollars and Fifty  
Cents ($64.50) per month for each part-time employee to the  
Welfare Service Benefit Fund of the United Food and Commercial  
Workers Union, Local #464A, at no cost to the employee.  
21  
   
F.2. Effective January 1, 2000, the contribution to the  
Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each part-time employee shall be  
Seventy Dollars and Fifty Cents ($70.50) per month.  
F.3. Effective January 1, 2001, the contribution to the  
Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each part-time employee shall be  
Seventy-six Dollars ($76.00) per month.  
F.4. Effective January 1, 2002, the contribution to the  
Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each part-time employee shall be  
Eighty-two Dollars ($82.00) per month.  
F.5. Contributions on behalf of part-time employees shall  
commence with the first of the month following six (6) months of  
employment.  
G. In the event an employee is out because of illness or  
an approved leave of absence, the Employer shall continue to make  
contributions to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund on behalf of  
the employee on the same basis as if the employee was working for  
a period of time not to exceed two (2) monthly contributions.  
‘A. The Union may elect to have contributions diverted  
during the term of this Agreement from the Legal Service and  
Educational Benefit Funds, as provided in Articles 44 and 45, to  
the Welfare Service Benefit Fund in order to increase its  
reserves.  
I. In the event of any change in state or federal  
legislation affecting the tax deductibility of this coverage, the  
parties immediately shall meet to discuss all necessary changes  
to the Plan to insure that the Employers' Health and Welfare  
costs shall not increase.  
### LEGAL SERVICE FUND - ARTICLE 44.  
### A. The Employer shall contribute Three Dollars and Fifty  
Cents ($3.50) per month to the Prepaid Legal Service Fund of the  
United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A for each  
full-time employee at no cost to the employee.  
B. The Employer shall contribute One Dollar and Fifty  
Cents ($1.50) per month to the Prepaid Legal Service Fund of the  
United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A on behalf  
of all part-time employees who have attained one (1) year of  
employment, at no cost to the employee.  
Se All contributions to the Legal Service Fund for full-  
time employees shall commence the first of the month following  
one (1) year of employment. Contributions for Local #464A  
members shall be made immediately, provided the employee was  
22  
4  
covered by the fund within ninety (90) days prior to the  
employee's date of hire.  
D. In the event an employee is out because of illness or  
an approved leave of absence, the Employer shall continue to make  
contributions to the Legal Service Fund on behalf of the employee  
on the same basis as if the employee was working for a period of  
time not to exceed two (2) monthly contributions.  
E. The Union may elect to have contributions during the  
term of this Agreement, diverted from the Legal Service Fund to  
the Welfare Service Benefit Fund, in order to increase its  
reserves.  
### EDUCATIONAL BENEFIT FUND - ARTICLE 45.  
### A. The Employer shall contribute Fifty Cents ($.50) per  
month to the Educational Benefit Fund of the United Food and  
Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A, for each full-time  
employee at no cost to the employee.  
B. Contributions to the Educational Benefit Fund for all  
full-time employees shall commence the first of the month  
following twenty-four (24) months of employment. Contributions  
for Local #464A members shall be made immediately, provided the  
employee was covered by the Fund within ninety (90) days prior to  
the employee's date of hire.  
Cc. In the event an employee is out because of illness or  
an approved leave of absence, the Employer shall continue to make  
contributions to the Educational Benefit Fund on behalf of the  
employee on the same basis as if the employee was working for a  
period of time not to exceed two (2) monthly contributions.  
D. The Union may elect to have contributions during the  
term of this Agreement diverted from the Educational Benefit Fund  
to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund in order to increase its  
reserves.  
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE - ARTICLE 46.  
A. If a full-time employee desires a leave of absence, the  
Employer shall give consideration to granting the leave of  
absence.  
B. Permission to grant a leave of absence shall not be  
unreasonably withheld.  
C. Leaves of absence shall be without pay and shall be for  
a maximum of thirty (30) days in any one (1) year, unless  
otherwise required by law.  
23  
   
### APPRENTICE MEAT CUTTERS' RATIO - ARTICLE 47.  
   
In the Meat Department, the ratio of employment shall be one  
(1) apprentice meat cutter for every three (3) journeymen meat  
cutters.  
### MANAGEMENT - ARTICLE 48.  
The Employer reserves the right to the operation of its  
business and the direction of its working forces including, but  
not limited to, the establishment of the opening and closing time  
of stores, the assignment of employees starting and stopping  
hours, the right to interchange employees starting and stopping  
hours, transfer, suspend, layoff, promote, demote, discharge for  
just cause, transfer employees from one store location to another  
subject however, to the provisions of this Agreement.  
### LEGISLATIVE CLAUSE - ARTICLE 49.  
### A. In the event a Federal, State or Local Government shall  
enact legislation, during the term of this Agreement, affecting  
the application of any of the provisions hereunder, including,  
but not limited to, wages or fringe benefits, the parties hereto  
recognize their obligation to comply with such new restrictive  
legislation. Thereafter, if the provisions, including, but not  
limited to, wages or fringe benefits, of this Agreement may be  
lawfully reinstituted, the parties hereto further agree that they  
shall reinstitute as soon as possible, the provisions of this  
Agreement as if no such new restrictive legislation had been  
enacted.  
B. The Employer and the Union agree to comply with the  
relevant provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act, the  
Americans with Disabilities Act and the Clean Air Act. The  
Employer expressly reserves any rights it may have under any of  
the foregoing legislation.  
### NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT - ARTICLE 50.  
A. There shall be no cessation of work, no strikes, no  
picketing or other interference with the operations of the  
Employer, or lockouts for any cause whatsoever, during the life  
of this Agreement.  
B. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement, and it  
shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary action in the  
event an employee refuses to enter upon any property involved in  
a primary labor dispute, or refuses to go through or work behind  
any primary picket line, including the primary picket line of the  
Union party to this Agreement, and including primary picket lines  
24  
  
at the Employer's places of business. Notwithstanding the  
foregoing, in view of the perishable nature of the products  
handled the Union agrees that the above rights shall not be  
exercised unless the Employer has been notified by the Union by  
registered mail at least three (3) working days in advance of its  
intention to honor the picketing Union's line.  
Cs The Union and its members may participate in all Union  
activities, strikes and boycotts as may be permitted by existing  
legislation or court decisions.  
D. In the event of any modification, amendment or repeal  
of existing legislation which affects the rights of the Union and  
its members in participating in labor disputes or Union activity,  
the Employer agrees that the Union and its members shail be  
permitted to engage in such Union activity as hereinbefore  
permitted and provided for in previous collective bargaining  
agreements with the Union.  
### REPLACEMENT CLAUSE - ARTICLE 51.  
A. The Employer agrees that the total number of full-time  
employees on the payroll at the expiration of this Agreement,  
including those on leave in the military service, shall not be  
less than the number of employees on the Employer's payroll on  
January 11, 1975, except in the event of a store closing or a  
Significant decline in operations which can be verified by  
appropriate documentation. The Union reserves the right to  
submit any dispute under this clause to arbitration.  
B. Full-time employees who leave their employment for any  
reason shall be replaced by another full-time employee.  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES - ARTICLE 52.  
A. From the first day the part-time employee begins work  
on a full-time basis, they shall begin to accrue and earn their  
full-time benefits, other than wages and vacations as set forth  
in Section E below, as other full-time employees except that  
part-time employees transferring to full-time status shall earn  
full-time sick leave on a pro-rata basis, minus sick leave  
already used in that year.  
B. When full-time openings become available, part-time  
employees will be given preference to fill the full-time  
openings.  
C. Part-time employees laid off and recalled within a one  
(1) year period shall receive their former hourly rate of pay and  
seniority reinstated back to last employment date.  
25  
D. No part-time employee can be required to perform the  
work of or relieve the Meat Department Manager.  
E. Part-time employees shall receive one-half (1/2)  
service credit toward full-time wage rate (to a maximum increase  
of One Dollar ($1.00) per hour and thereafter progress on the  
applicable scale) and vacation benefits when promoted to full-  
time.  
F. All part-time employees who are interested in obtaining  
full-time positions shall place their name on a bid sheet. When  
a full-time job opportunity becomes available within the  
department, the employer shall consider the qualifications,  
abilities, and seniority in awarding said full-time position.  
Seniority shall control when all other factors are equal.  
### POLICY AND PROCEDURE CHANGES - ARTICLE 53.  
The Union shall be notified in advance of any changes in  
policy and procedure by the Employer.  
### EVALUATION OF EMPLOYEES - ARTICLE 54.  
A. The Employer agrees to evaluate all its employees for  
the purpose of upgrading.  
B. Any employee selected for Management training will  
remain in the bargaining unit until such training and the  
promotion to a Management position has been completed.  
### DELINQUENT CONTRIBUTIONS - ARTICLE 55.  
A. It is agreed that, if the Employer fails to make timely  
contributions and becomes delinquent to the Pension, Welfare,  
Legal Service and the Educational Benefit Funds, the Employer  
shall be responsible for interest, as the Trustees may direct,  
from the date the contributions were due. In addition, the  
Employer will be responsible for any Legal fees and/or Court  
costs incurred because of such delinquency.  
B. The Employer further agrees that, if the Trustees deem  
it necessary, the Employer's payroll records may be examined to  
determine whether or not the Employer is meeting the terms of  
this Agreement and the Trust Agreement.  
### TIME WORKED - ARTICLE 56.  
The Employer agrees in making contributions to the Pension,  
Welfare, Legal Service and Educational Benefit Funds to compute  
26  
as time worked all time paid for such as holidays, vacations and  
sick leave days. The payroll records of the Employer shall be  
evidence of time paid for.  
### MOBILE MEDICAL UNIT - ARTICLE 57.  
A. The Employer agrees to permit any eligible employee who  
so desires up to one (1) hour of paid time once a year to take  
preventative medical tests furnished by the Local 464A Mobile  
Medical Unit.  
B. The time of the visit shall be by prior mutual  
agreement.  
### CREDIT UNION - ARTICLE 58.  
A. The Employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to  
provide payroll deductions for all employees who desire to join  
the Liberty. Savings Federal Credit Union and who have signed a  
proper authorization for such deductions.  
B. If the Employer has a federally approved Credit Union  
established prior to the date of this Agreement, the Employer  
shall not be bound by Paragraph A immediately above.  
27  
   
### EXPIRATION - ARTICLE 59.  
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in full force and effect from the  
day and year aforementioned through the 19th day of April, 2003,  
and thereafter from year to year unless either party, sixty (60)  
days prior to the expiration date, shall serve upon the other  
written notice of any changes or demands to be made.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereunto set their  
hands and seals the day and year aforementioned.  
### FOR ADAMS SUP FOOD STORE FOR UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL  
### WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,  
### LOCAL #464A, AFL-CIO  
   
28  
### SCHEDULE "A"  
### EMPLOYEES HIRED OR APPOINTED PRIOR TO JANUARY 15, 1984  
### (ALL FULL TIME WAGES BASED ON A 40 HOUR WORK WEEK)  
All employees on progression shall remain on progression. Such employees upon reaching  
the top of the scale shall receive the applicable general wage increases listed below,  
except all employees on the payroll as of December 20, 1998, shall receive the first  
General Wage Increase.  
### A. GENERAL INCREASES EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE  
12/20/98 12/19/99 3/18/01 3/17/02 12/22/02  
MEAT DEPARTMENT HEAD..... $10.00 $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 $27.00  
eeee $10.00 $15.00 $17.00 $20.00 $25.00  
JOURNEYMAN MEAT CUTTER... $10.00 $15.00 $17.00 $20.00 $25.00  
### SEAFOOD & POULTRY WORKERS  
(WHERE $10.00 $15.00 $17.00 $20.00 $25.00  
DELI/APPY HEAD........... $10.00 $15.00 $17.00 $20.00 $25.00  
### MEAT WRAPPERS, SEAFOOD  
AND DELI/APPY CLERKS..... $10.00 $15.00 $15.00 $20.00 $25.00  
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES....... $ S $ 25 $ 25 S .35  
### (EXCLUDING PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS)  
### B. MINIMUM WAGES  
MEAT DEPARTMENT HEAD...... $874.00 $889.00 $909.00 $929.00 $956.00  
cece $820.00 $835.00 $852.00 $872.00 $897.00  
   
B. MINIMUM WAGES (continued  
### JOURNEYMAN MEAT CUTTER......  
### SEAFOOD & POULTRY WORKERS  
### (WHERE APPLICABLE)  
DELI/APPY HEAD..............  
### MEAT WRAPPERS, SEAFOOD AND  
DELI/APPY CLERKS............  
### PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS......  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES (EXCLUDING  
### PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS) AT OR  
ABOVE $11.95) AS OF 12/19/98......  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES (EXCLUDING  
### PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS) AT $11.30  
BUT BELOW $11.95 AS OF 12/19/98....  
### SCHEDULE  
### EFFECTIVE  
12/20/98  
$810.  
$810  
$744.  
$690  
S$ 20  
$ 12  
$ 11  
00  
.00  
00  
.00  
  
.20  
soo  
### WAN  
continued  
### EFFECTIVE  
12/19/99  
$825.  
$825.  
$759.  
$705.  
$ 20.  
$ 12.  
$ 11  
00  
00  
00  
00  
625  
45  
.80  
   
### EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE  
12/22/02  
3/18/01  
$842.  
$842.  
$776.  
$720.  
S 21.  
$ 12.  
$ 12.  
00  
00  
00  
00  
05  
70  
05  
3/17/02  
$862  
$862  
$796.  
$740.  
$ 21.  
$ 12.  
$ 12.  
.00  
.00  
00  
00  
55  
95  
30  
$887.  
$887.  
$821.  
$765.  
$ 22.  
$ 13.  
$ 12  
00  
00  
00  
00  
175  
30  
.65  
### SCHEDULE _"B"  
### EMPLOYEES HIRED OR APPOINTED ON OR AFTER JANUARY 15, 1984 AND BEFORE JULY 19, 1987  
### ALL FULL-TIME WAGES BASED ON A 40-HOUR WORK WEEK  
   
All employees on progression shall remain on progression. Such employees upon reaching  
the top of the scale shall receive the applicable general wage increases listed below,  
except all employees on the payroll as of December 20, 1998, shall receive the first  
General Wage Increase.  
### EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE  
12/20/98 12/19/99 3/18/01 3/17/02 12/22/02  
### A. GENERAL INCREASES  
MEAT DEPARTMENT HEAD........ $ 10.00 $ 15.00 $ 20.00 $ 20.00 $ 27.00  
S$ 10.00 $ 15.00 $ 17.00 $ 20.00 S$ 25.00  
JOURNEYMAN MEAT CUTTER...... $ 10.00 $ 15.00 $ 17.00 $ 20.00 $ 25.00  
DELI/APPY HEAD.............. $ 10.00 $ 15.00 $ 17.00 $ 20.00 $ 25.00  
### MEAT WRAPPER, SEAFOOD CLERK,  
AND DELI/APPY CLERK......... $ 10.00 $ 15.00 $ 15.00 $ 20.00 $ 25.00  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
(EXCLUDING P/T MEAT CUTTERS)..... $ .25 S$ .25 $ .25 $ .25 $  
### B. MINIMUM WAGES  
MEAT DEPARTMENT HEAD....... $849.00 $864.00 $884.00 $904.00 $931.00  
BOXMAN. cance $795.00 $810.00 $827.00 $847.00 $872.00  
JOURNEYMAN MEAT CUTTER..... $785.00 $800.00 $817.00 $837.00 $862.00  
   
   
SCHEDULE “B” (continued)  
### EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE  
12/20/98 12/19/99 3/18/01 3/17/02 12/22/02  
B. MINIMUM WAGES (continued  
DELI/APPY HEAD......... be $719.00 $734.00 $751.00 $771.00 $796.00  
### MEAT WRAPPER, SEAFOOD CLERK,  
AND DELI/APPY CLERK....... $665.00 $680.00 $695.00 $715.00 $740.00  
PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS.... $19.625 $ 20.00 S$ 20.425 $ 20.925 S 21.55  
B.1. Meat Department Heads and Journeymen Meat Cutters receiving wages listed In Schedule  
Section B MINIMUM WAGES shall receive the following additional wage increases  
totaling $25.00.  
### UPON COMPLETION OF 42 MONTHS OF $10.00 increase  
SIX (6) MONTHS eee eee ee eee we eens $ 5.00 increase  
SIX (6) MONTHS eee eee ee eee ee ees $ 5.00 increase  
SIX (6) MONTHS THEREAFTER. cee eee eee ee ee ee $ 5.00 increase  
B.2. Effective April 6, 2003, Full-time Deli/Appy Heads, Meat Wrappers, Seafood Clerks and  
Deli/Appy Clerks on Schedule B above, as of January 5, 1999, shall receive a wage  
adjustment to the applicable Schedule A rate, not to exceed $25.00 per week.  
1.  
### SCHEDULE "C"  
### EMPLOYEES HIRED OR APPOINTED ON OR AFTER JULY 20, 1987  
### (ALL FULL-TIME WAGES BASED ON A 40-HOUR WORK WEEK)  
### FULL-TIME MEAT WRAPPERS, SEAFOOD CLERKS & DELI/APPY CLERKS  
AFTER 30 DAYS... $210.00  
AFTER 6 MONTHS............. 220.00  
### " 2 8 ee ee eee 240.00 ANY EMPLOYEE REACHING THE TOP OF THE SCALE  
### " BM Swi ee 260.00 SHALL RECEIVE THE APPLICABLE GENERAL WAGE  
### " elk we 290.00 INCREASES LISTED IN SCHEDULE B ON THE  
" 30 " ene 320.00 APPROPRIATE DATES.  
" 430.00  
" 42 “" #88 8 HH 450.00  
" 45 4“ 470.00  
### FULL-TIME JOURNEYMEN BUTCHERS AND/OR APPRENTICE BUTCHERS HIRED OR APPOINTED  
### ON _ OR AFTER JANUARY 1, 1995  
   
### EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE  
12/20/98 12/19/99 3/18/01 3/17/02 12/22/02  
AFTER 30 DAYS .............. $265.00  
AFTER 6 MONTHS ........... 295.00  
" 12 M06 325.00  
" 18 ee ee ee 350.00  
" 24 we eee RRR OS 375.00  
" 30 eT ee 400.00  
36 meee ww ROS 465.00  
" 42 Nem 500.00  
" 48 me $648.00 $660.00 $673.60 $689.60 $709.60  
\  
SCHEDULE “C” (continued)  
### PART-TIME JOURNEYMEN BUTCHERS HIRED OR APPOINTED ON _ OR AFTER JANUARY 1, 1995 SHALL  
### RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING WAGES:  
   
### EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE  
12/20/98 12/19/99 3/18/01 3/17/02 12/22/02  
$ 16.20 $ 16.50 $ 16.84 $ 17.24 $ 17.74  
### PER HOUR PER HOUR PER HOUR PER HOUR PER HOUR  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES (EXCEPT PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS) HIRED ON OR AFTER FEBRUARY 10,  
i991.  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES HIRED ON OR AFTER FEBRUARY 10, 1991 AT THE MINIMUM HOURLY RATE OF  
### $5.25 OR ABOVE, EXCEPT PART-TIME PREPARED FOOD SERVICE CLERKS HIRED AFTER JANUARY 5,  
### 1999, SHALL RECEIVE INCREMENTS OF $.15 EVERY SIX (6) MONTHS FOLLOWING THEIR HIRING  
### DATE FOR THE TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT.  
### THOSE CLASSIFICATIONS REFERRED TO ON SCHEDULE B, AND NOT REFERRED TO ON SCHEDULE C,  
### SHALL BE PAID PURSUANT TO SCHEDULE B.  
### EFFECTIVE APRIL 6, 2003, FULL-TIME MEAT WRAPPERS, SEAFOOD CLERKS AND DELI/APPY CLERKS  
### AT TOP RATE ON SCHEDULE C ABOVE AS OF JANUARY 5,1999 SHALL RECEIVE A WAGE ADJUSTMENT  
OF $15.00 PER WEEK.  
### FULL-TIME MEAT WRAPPERS, SEAFOOD CLERKS AND DELI/APPY CLERKS HIRED ON OR AFTER  
### JANUARY 5, 1999 SHALL RECEIVE A MINIMUM STARTING RATE OF $260.00 PER WEEK AND SHALL  
### RECEIVE AN ADDITIONAL $15.00 PER WEEK AFTER THIRTY (30) DAYS OF FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT.  
### THEREAFTER, THESE EMPLOYEES SHALL RECEIVE INCREASES OF TWENTY DOLLARS ($20.00) PER  
### WEEK EVERY SIX (6)MONTHS, FROM THEIR DATE OF HIRE OR APPOINTMENT TO FULL-TIME STATUS  
### UNTIL THEY ATTAIN A MINIMUM WEEKLY RATE OF $480.00 AFTER FORTY-EIGHT (48) MONTHS OF  
### SERVICE. THEREAFTER, THEY SHALL BECOME ELIGIBLE FOR SUBSEQUENT GENERAL WAGE  
### INCREASES.  
### PART-TIME PREPARED FOOD/SERVICE CLERKS (NEW TO THE INDUSTRY), HIRED AFTER JANUARY 5,  
### 1999 (WORKING IN ALL DEPARTMENTS, EXCLUDING THE MEAT DEPARTMENT), SHALL RECEIVE  
### ALTERNATING INCREMENTS OF $.10 AND $.15 EVERY SIX (6) ‘MONTHS FOLLOWING THEIR HIRE  
### DATE FOR THE TERM OF THE AGREEMENT.