K9869  
### COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
### BETWEEN  
### AOCE  
Experienced. Innovative. Responsive.  
Alpha-Omega Change Engineering, Inc.  
and  
### THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF  
~  
### ae MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS,  
### AFL-CIO  
District Lodge 110  
And its  
Local Lodge 2296  
F-15E Contractor Aircrew Training and Courseware Development  
### (CAT/CWD)  
Seymour Johnson AFB, North Carolina  
Effective  
April 1, 2018 — March 31, 2020  
   
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### PARTICLE | TITLE S| PAGE  
Preamble 8  
1 [Recognition  
| Unionand CompanyRelations |  
_ 4 Procedure and Arbitration | 9  
| _6 __| Workweek, Hours of Work, Shifts | 16  
| 19  
9  
5 [Rates fPay 8  
ofthe Parties | 389  
### OF UNDERSTANDING |  
1  
   
### COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
### BETWEEN  
### ALPHA-OMEGA CHANGE ENGINEERING, INC. (“AOCE”)  
### AND  
### THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS  
### AND AEROSPACE WORKERS,  
### AFL-CIO  
### DISTRICT 110  
THIS AGREEMENT, dated as of the 17™ day of J anuary 2018, by and between Alpha-  
Omega Change Engineering, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the Company) and The  
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO, District 110,  
Local 2296 (hereinafter referred to as the Union).  
### WITNESSETH that  
WHEREAS, the Union Is the exclusive bargaining agent of certain employees of the  
Company, and  
WHEREAS, the Union and the Company have negotiated a Collective Bargaining  
Agreement covering wages, hours and other conditions of employment, and  
WHEREAS, the parties desire to reduce the Agreement to writing,  
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises hereinafter set forth, the  
parties hereto agree as follows:  
### ARTICLE 1  
### RECOGNITION  
Section 1.1 Recognition. The Company recognizes The International Association of  
Machinists and Aerospace workers, AFL-CIO, District 110, as the sole and exclusive  
bargaining agent with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of work and all other  
conditions of employment for all employees covered by this Agreement.  
Section 1.2 Bargaining Unit. The Employer and the Union agree that the employees  
covered by this agreement shall consist of the following: designated employees of Alpha-  
Omega Change Engineering, Inc. (AOCE), United States Air Force Contract  
17-C-0006, and Its successor contracts located atSeymour] ohnson AFB. Excluded from  
the unit are all, Supervisors and managers, non-AOCE employees at Seymour J ohnson  
AFB NC, professional employees and guards as defined by the National Labor Relations  
Act, and all other employees of AOCE, including those employees on contracts other than  
those identified above.  
### ARTICLE 2  
### RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT  
The management of the Company and the direction of the work force are vested  
exclusively in the Company subject to the terms of this Agreement. All matters not  
Specifically and expressly covered or treated by the language of this Agreement may be  
administered for its duration by the Company in accordance with such policy or  
procedure as the Company from time to time may determine. The Company does have  
the right to subcontract work and designate the work to be performed by the Company  
and the places where itis to be performed, which right shall not be subject to arbitration.  
The Company agrees that no bargaining unit employees will be laid off as a direct result  
of subcontracting bargaining unit work.  
### ARTICLE 3  
### UNION AND COMPANY RELATIONS  
Section 3.1 Union Activity During Working Time. Solicitation of Union membership,  
collection or checking of dues, will not be permitted during working hours. The Company  
agrees not to discriminate in any way against any employee for the filing of complaints  
or grievances or for Union activity. Any employee engaged in unsanctioned Union  
activity during work time, except as specifically allowed by the provisions of this  
Agreement, or by other agreement between the Company and the Union, is subject to  
disciplinary action.  
Section 3.2 Strikes and Lockouts. The Union agrees that during the terms of this  
Agreement and regardless of whether an unfair labor practice is alleged (a) there will be  
no strike, Slow-down, sit-down, or walk-out and (b) the Union will not directly or indirectly  
authorize, encourage or approve any refusal on the part of employees to proceed to the  
location or normal work assignment. Any employee who violates this clause shall be  
Subject to discipline. The Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement there  
will be no lock-out of employees covered by this Agreement. Any claim by either party  
that the other has violated this Section 3.2 shall not be subject to the grievance  
procedure or arbitration provisions of this Agreement and either party shall have the  
right to submit such claims to the courts.  
Section 3.3 Union Payroll Deduction. The Company shall deduct dues or agency fees  
from each paycheck each pay period. The Company Is on a semi-monthly  
pay frequency. The Union shall provide the Company with a membership list that  
details the amount of time a given employee has been a member of the Union so the  
Company may know the correct amount to deduct.  
The Company shall send the funds to the designated Union account monthly within 30  
days.  
Section 3.4 Indemnity. The Union will indemnify and hold the Company harmless from  
and against any and all claims, demands, charges, complaints, or suits instituted  
against the Company which are based on or arise out of any action taken by the  
Company in accordance with or arising out of the foregoing provisions of this Article 3.  
### Section 3.5 Business Representatives - Access to Site. The Business  
Representative of the Union shall have access to the Company facilities where  
bargaining unit employees are normally assigned during working hours for the purpose  
of conducting legitimate Union Business pertaining to this Agreement including, but not  
limited to, the investigation and advising in the handling of grievances, and will not  
interfere with the normal conduct of the Company's operation. The Company will not  
impose regulations which will render the intent of this provision ineffective. The Union  
Shall keep the Company VP of Operations currently informed in writing of the name of  
the accredited Business Representative. The business representative shall notify the  
human resources manager or his designee prior to any visit to the various locations or  
site. The necessary Company badges and credentials will be given to the business  
representative. Visits shall be made subject to such regulations as maybe made from  
time to time by the Company.  
Section 3.6 Shop Stewards. The Union may select not to exceed, except by mutual  
agreement, two employees as Shop Stewards. The Union may designate one additional  
Steward to act as Chief Steward. An employee while serving as a steward shall not be  
Surplused, unless the employee is the only employee in the surplused classification.  
Section 3.7 Departure from Work Assignment by Stewards to Investigate  
Complaints or Claims of Grievance. Each steward shall notify and obtain permission  
from his supervisor before leaving his work assignment for the purpose of investigating  
complaints or claims of grievance on the part of employees or the Union or contacting  
the business representative in regard to such claim or grievance. Such permission shall  
be granted except where there Is a substantial reason for delaying the contact or the  
investigation due to safety conditions or the fact that a critical operation is in process.  
The supervisor may be present during any discussion relating to any complaint or  
grievance. However, upon the request of an employee or steward, the supervisor shall  
authorize a steward to participate in a private discussion with an employee, business  
representative, or his designee, relating to a complaint or grievance. Discussions of the  
type described in this Section 3.7 shall be conducted without requiring the employee or  
Steward to be on unpaid time provided the discussion does not extend beyond the time  
that the supervisor considers reasonable under the circumstances. Each Steward,  
upon approval of the Site Lead/Manager, shall be authorized up to four (4) hours per  
workweek to perform steward duties without loss of pay.  
Section 3.8 Bulletin Boards. The Company will provide bulletin boards for the use of  
the Union at locations mutually agreed to. Their use will be restricted to the following:  
) Notices of Union meetings;  
) Notices of Union elections and results thereof;  
) Notices of Union recreational and social affairs;  
)  
a  
b  
### C  
d) Such other notices as are mutually agreed upon.  
(  
(  
(  
(  
Only notices approved by the Business Representative, or his designee, authorized in  
writing by the Union and approved by the Company may be placed on the bulletin  
boards.  
Section 3.9 Nothing in this Agreement is intended to abridge the right of a supervisor to  
privately discuss with any employee under his or her supervision topics pertinent to the  
workplace, including but not limited to, the employee's job performance.  
Section 3.10 J oint Meetings. Should either party desire to discuss with the other any  
matter affecting generally the relationship of the parties, a meeting of Union and  
Management representatives shall be arranged upon request of either party. Such  
meeting shall take place ata time mutually convenient to both parties. Any use of  
Company time for attendance at such meetings shall be arranged in advance by mutual  
agreement.  
This Section is intended to provide a free avenue of communication between the Union  
and the Company, and suggestions, complaints, or other matters may be presented by  
either party, provided that neither party shall be required to discuss any item brought up  
by the other party nor be bound to act upon any item presented. However, both parties  
agree to discuss informal grievances and complaints.  
### ARTICLE 4  
### GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION  
Section 4.1 Establishment of Grievance and Arbitration Procedure. Grievances or  
complaints arising between the Company and its employees subject to this Agreement,  
or the Company and the Union, with respect to the interpretation or application of any of  
the terms of this Agreement, shall be settled according to the following procedure.  
Subject to the terms of this Article relating to cases of dismissal or Suspension for cause  
or of involuntary resignation, only matters dealing with the interpretation or application of  
terms of this Agreement shall be subject to this grievance machinery.  
Section 4.2 Employee Grievances. In the case of grievances on behalf of employees  
and subject to the further provisions of Section 4.3 below, relating to cases of layoff or  
dismissal or suspension for cause of involuntary resignation:  
STEP 1. Oral Discussion. The employee first shall discuss his grievance with the  
Steward and if the Steward considers the grievance to be valid then the  
employee and the Steward will contact the employee's supervisor and will  
attempt to effect a settlement of the complaint. This procedure, however, will not  
prevent an employee from contacting his supervisor if he so chooses. If the  
purpose of the employee's contacting his supervisor is to adjust the grievance,  
the Steward shall be given an opportunity to be present and such adjustment  
Shall be in conformity with this Agreement.  
STEP 2. Grievance Reduced to Writing. Handling at Supervisory Level. If no  
settlement is reached in Step 1, the Steward, if he considers the grievance to be  
valid, may at any time reduce to writing a statement of the grievance or complaint  
which the grievant must sign and it shall contain the following:  
(a) The facts upon which the grievance Is based.  
(bo) Reference to the section or sections of the Agreement alleged to have  
been violated (this will not be applicable in cases of dismissal or  
Suspension for cause or of involuntary resignation).  
(c) The remedy sought.  
The Steward shall sign and submit the written statement of grievance to the  
manager for consideration, with a copy to Human Resources. After such  
Submission, the manager and the Steward may, within the next five (5) workdays,  
unless mutually extended, settle the written grievance and, over their signatures  
indicate the disposition made thereof. Otherwise, promptly after the expiration of  
such five (5) day period, or agreed extension thereof, the manager and the  
Steward shall sign the grievance and their signatures will indicate that the  
grievance has been discussed and reconsidered by them and that no settlement  
has been reached.  
STEP 3. Written Grievance Handling at Business Representative/Company  
Representative Level. If no settlement is reached in Step 2 within the specified or  
agreed time limits, the Business Representative or his designee may at any time  
thereafter submit the grievance to the Site Manager or the designated  
representative of the Company. After such submission, the designated  
representative of the Company and the Business Representative or his designee  
may, within the next ten (10) workdays, unless mutually extended, settle the  
grievance and, over their signatures, indicate the disposition made thereof.  
Otherwise, promptly after the expiration of such ten (10) day period, or agreed  
extension thereof, the designated representative of the Company and the  
Business Representative, or his designee, shall sign the grievance and their  
Signatures will indicate that the grievance has been discussed and reconsidered  
by them and that no settlement has been reached.  
STEP 4. Arbitration. If no settlement is reached in Step 3 within the specified or  
agreed time limits, then either party may in writing, within ten (10) workdays  
thereafter, request that the matter be submitted to an arbiter for a prompt hearing  
as hereinafter provided in Sections 4.6 to 4.7, inclusive.  
Section 4.3 Dismissals, Suspensions, Layoff, etc. In cases of layoff or suspension  
for cause, or of involuntary resignation, the employee shall be given a copy of the layoff,  
Suspension or termination of service slip, as the case may be, if he is available to be  
presented with such copy. If he is not available, copies of the slip will be sent to the  
employee and to the Union office. The employee shall have the right to appeal the  
action shown on the slip providing the Union files a written grievance with the  
designated representative of the Company within seven (7) workdays after the date of  
layoff dismissal, or suspension for cause, or involuntary resignation, or within seven (7)  
workdays after the date of the mailing of the copy of the slip. The written grievance then  
may be processed through subsequent steps.  
Section 4.4 Union Versus Company. Processing of grievances which the Union may  
have against the Company shall begin with step 3 and shall be limited to matters  
dealing with the interpretation or application of terms of this Agreement. Such grievance  
Shall be submitted in writing to the designated representative of the Company, and shall  
contain the following:  
(a) Statement of the grievance setting forth the facts upon which the grievance is  
based.  
(bo) Reference to the section or sections of the Agreement alleged to have been  
violated.  
(c) The correction sought.  
The grievance shall be signed by the designated representative of the Union. If no  
settlement is reached within ten (10) workdays (unless mutually extended) from  
Submission of the grievance to the designated representative of the Company, both  
10  
Shall sign the grievance and indicate that it has been discussed and reconsidered by  
them and that no settlement has been reached. Within ten (10) workdays thereafter the  
Union may in writing request that the matter be submitted to an arbiter for a prompt  
hearing as hereinafter provided in 4.6 to 4.7, inclusive.  
Section 4.5 Retroactive Compensation. Grievance claims involving retroactive  
compensation shall be limited to thirty (30) calendar days prior to the written submission  
of the grievance to Company representatives, provided, however, that this thirty (30)  
day limitation may be waived by mutual consent of the parties.  
Section 4.6 Selection of Arbiter from Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.  
The parties shall jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to  
Submit a panel of seven (7) arbiters. Such requests shall state the general nature of the  
case and ask that the nominees, be qualified to handle the type of case involved. When  
notification of the names of the panel of seven (7) arbiters is received, the parties in turn  
Shall have the right to strike a name from the panel until only one name remains. The  
right to strike the first name shall be determined by lot. The remaining person shall be  
the arbiter.  
Section 4.7 Arbitration - Rules of Procedure. Arbitration pursuant to Step 4 shall be  
conducted in accordance with the following  
4.7(a) The arbiter shall hear and accept pertinent evidence submitted by both  
parties and be empowered to request such data as he deems pertinent to the  
grievance and shall render a decision in writing to both parties within thirty (30)  
days, unless mutually extended, after the completion of the hearing.  
4.7(b) The arbiter shall be authorized to rule and Issue a decision in writing on  
the issue presented for arbitration which decision shall be final and binding on  
both parties.  
4.7(c) The arbiter shall rule only on the basis of information presented in the  
hearing before him and shall refuse to receive any information after the hearing  
except when there is a mutual agreement, in the presence of both parties.  
4.7(d) Each party to the proceedings may call such witnesses as may be  
necessary in the order in which their testimony is to be heard. Such testimony  
Shall be limited to the matters set forth in the written statement of grievance. The  
arguments of the parties may be supported by oral comment and rebuttal. Either  
or both parties may submit written briefs with a time period mutually agreed  
upon. Such arguments of the parties, whether oral or written, shall be confined to  
and directed at the matters set forth in the grievance.  
4.7(e) Each party shall pay any compensation and expenses relating to its own  
witnesses or representatives.  
11  
4.7(f) The Union or the Company, whichever is ruled against by the arbiter, shall  
pay the compensation of the arbiter including his necessary expenses.  
4.7(g) The total cost of the stenographic record (if requested) will be paid by the  
party requesting it. If the other party also requests a copy, that party will pay one  
half of the stenographic costs.  
Section 4.8 Extension of Time Limits by Agreement. Time limits designated in this  
Article for processing grievances and for bringing a matter to arbitration may only be  
extended by mutual written consent.  
Section 4.9 Agreement Not to be Altered. In arriving at any settlement or decision  
under the provisions of this Article, neither the parties nor the arbiter shall have the  
authority to alter this Agreement in whole or in part.  
Section 4.10 Conference During Working Hours. All conferences resulting from the  
application of provisions contained in this Article shall be held during working hours.  
### Section 4,11 Business Representative, When Not Available May Authorize  
Designee. For any period that the Business Representative is unavailable to serve in  
that capacity under this Article 4, he may designate an accredited Steward or another  
accredited Business Representative to act for him, as his designee. As to each such  
period of unavailability, authorization of the designee will be accomplished by the  
Business Representative informing the appropriate Company representative of the  
expected period of the Business Representative's unavailability to perform his duties  
under this Article 4, he shall promptly notify the Company representative of the fact and  
such notice will terminate the period during which the designee is authorized to act.  
Section 4.12 Signing Grievance Does Not Concede Arbitrable Issue. The signing of  
any grievance by any employee or representative either of the Company or of the Union  
Shall not be construed by either party as a concession or agreement that the grievance  
constitutes an arbitrable issue or is properly subject to the grievance machinery under  
the terms of this Article.  
12  
### ARTICLE 5  
### SENIORITY  
Section 5.1 Purpose and Definition. Both parties hereto agree that continued service  
over a period of time should, and in most cases does, increase the worth of an  
employee to his employer, and that length of service should receive recognition in case  
of promotion, and therefore agree: That the principle of seniority, where qualifications,  
productivity and dependability are substantially equal, shall be the determining factor  
and shall apply upon a company-wide basis in accordance with the specific application  
provisions of this agreement.  
Section 5.2 Probationary Employees.  
5,2(a) For the first ninety (90) days of employment, employees shall be  
considered as on probation and without seniority. Employees’ probationary  
period shall start upon receiving required security clearance to accomplish work  
duties. However, if a probationary employee is laid off and rehired within a period  
of time not in excess of the time he had previously spent as a probationary  
employee, he will be credited with the time previously worked toward the  
completion of his probationary period.  
5.2(b) During such ninety (90) day period, probationary employees may be laid  
off or terminated at the discretion of the Company. Such layoffs or terminations  
during the probationary period shall not be subject to the grievance and  
arbitration procedure.  
Section 5.3 Establishment of Seniority. The seniority date of each employee, who, as  
of the effective date of this agreement, Is in the unit defined in Article 1, on authorized  
leave of absence from the unit, or acting in a Supervisory capacity over employees in  
the unit, shall be in conformance with the date carried on the Company's records, and  
agreed on the date of ratification. The seniority date of each employee, who,  
Subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement is hired, rehired, or transferred into  
the unit shall be the effective date of such hire, rehire, or transfer.  
Section 5.4 Employees With Identical Seniority Dates. When two or more  
employees have the same seniority date as herein provided, the employee having the  
lowest number (the last four 4) digits of one's social security number shall be considered  
as having the least seniority for tie breaking purposes.  
Section 5.5 Accumulation Seniority. Seniority shall accumulate for:  
5.5(a) Employees who are on the active payroll of the Company and in the  
bargaining unit defined in Article 1 of this Agreement;  
13  
5.5(b) Employees who are promoted to non-represented positions supervising  
bargaining unit employees, shall retain and continue to accumulate seniority  
while they remain in such supervisory position;  
5.5(c) Employees while on active military service and reinstated in compliance  
with applicable law;  
5.5(d) Time spent on authorized leave of absence for Union business in  
accordance with Article 8;  
5.5(e) Time lost by reason of industrial injury, or industrial illness not to exceed  
the time limits on layoff statue provided in 5.5(h);  
5,.5(f) Time spent on authorized leave of absence granted because of pregnancy  
or to cover periods of non-industrial injury or illness, not to exceed 12 months  
during any such period;  
5.5(g) The first thirty (30) days of any other authorized leave of absence;  
5.5(h) Time spent on layoff for a period not to exceed (5) years, or for employees  
with less than one (1) year seniority, time spent on layoff for a period not to  
exceed one (1) year.  
Section 5.6 Loss of Seniority. An individual shall lose seniority rights for the following  
reasons:  
5.6(a) Resignation. In addition to normal resignations, an individual who, while on  
leave of absence, engages in other employment without prior written approval by  
the Company, or fails to report for work or to obtain renewal of his leave on or  
before its expiration, will be considered as having resigned;  
5.6(b) Discharge for cause;  
5.6(c) Failure to respond with an acceptance within three (3) working days after  
receipt of a recall from layoff notice by certified mail (unless such period is  
extended by the Company);  
5,.6(d) Failure to report for work within fourteen (14) calendar days after  
acceptance or on such later date as may be designated by the Company;  
5,.6(e) Failure to keep the Company advised of any changes in current mailing  
address, while on layoff. The Company will fulfill its obligation for notice of recall  
by mailing a certified notice to the employee's last address of record;  
5.6(f) Layoff for a period in excess of three (3) years (or for employees with less  
than one (1) year seniority, layoff in excess of one (1) year);  
14  
5.6(g) Retirement;  
5.6(h) Absence in excess of three (3) consecutive working days, or failure to  
return for leave of absence within three work days, without notification shall  
constitute RESIGNATION as in 5.6(a) above, unless satisfactory evidence of  
inability to report for work is shown.  
Section 5.7 Transfers To and From the Bargaining Unit.  
5.7(a) The Company may transfer or promote employees covered by this  
Agreement to supervisory positions.  
5.7 (b) Employees transferring to salaried positions other than that described in  
Section 5.6, shall retain their bargaining unit seniority but shall not accumulate  
additional seniority while they remain in those salaried positions.  
5.7(c) The Company at any time may transfer or demote to positions within this  
unit those employees who have accumulated or are accumulating seniority under  
Section 5.3 of this Article 5. Such transfers or demotions may be made subject  
only to the job return rights of others to the extent provided in Article 12.  
15  
### ARTICLE 6  
### WORKWEEK, HOURS OF WORK, SHIFTS  
Section 6.1 Workweek. The purpose of this Article is to define the normal hours of  
work, but nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a guarantee of specified  
numbers of hours of work either per day or per week. The work week shall consist of a  
period of seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods. The normal work week  
Shall be a minimum of forty (40) hours consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours per  
day, Monday through Friday. Each employee will be assigned to a shift with designated  
times for beginning and ending. The first and second shifts each shall be eight hour and  
thirty minute periods which shall include a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period.  
Section 6.2 Non-Standard Work Schedule. It is agreed that the company may  
schedule employees to work a non-standard work schedule consisting of shifts of longer  
duration than those specified in this Article, workweeks of less than five (5) full  
consecutive days, or non-consecutive days off, as set forth in this Article, for a total  
workweek of 40 hours. By way of illustration, but not in limitation, a non-standard work  
schedule could be four (4) ten (10) hour days. Any other matters relating to non-  
Standard work schedules will be subject to mutual agreement by the parties. This  
Section is subject to Article 15.3, Shift Differential.  
Determination of starting time and hours of work, shall be made by the Company and  
such schedules may be changed from time to time to suit varying conditions of  
business. The Company will provide as much advance notice to the employees as  
possible. Employees’ posted shifts shall not be changed to avoid the payment of  
overtime. This Section is not subject to Article 4.  
Section 6.3 Shifts: Lunch Periods. Employees will be allowed one scheduled fifteen  
(15) minute rest period before and one fifteen (15) minute rest period after lunch in each  
complete scheduled work day, the time will be established by the Company.  
Determination of starting time and hours of work shall be made by the Company and  
such schedules may be changed from time to time to suit varying conditions of  
business.  
Section 6.4 Employees shall work up to the start of the rest and lunch periods and be at  
their place of work at the end of their rest and lunch periods. Depending on operations  
and schedules, employees may be required to work through their rest and/or lunch  
periods and take them ata later or earlier time during the shift.  
Section 6.5 The Company may, providing there are no employees on active layoff  
Status in the classification, to accommodate schedule requirements, hire employees  
Specifically to work a daily or weekly work schedule which is less than the current  
regular normal workday or workweek.  
16  
Section 6.6 Shift Scheduling:  
6.6 (a) Instructors will be assigned to one (1) of three (3) possible shifts for the  
duration of the workweek. The shifts will be designated as Early, Swing, or Late  
shifts.  
Early Shift! Beginning between the hours of 0545 - 0815  
Swing Shift: Beginning between the hours of 0730 - 0915  
Late Shift Lasttwo (2) MTCs minus 8.5 hours  
Employees’ shift that starts on or after 1100 are authorized shift differential pay  
(Article 15.3).  
6.6 (b) Instructor shift schedules will be established two (2) weeks in advance as  
practicable. By close of business on Friday, prior to the scheduled week, the  
shift and duty hours for the next week will be published in the Instructor W eekly  
Schedule and will not be changed unless approved by the employee(s) and the  
Site Lead/Manager.  
17  
### ARTICLE 7  
### OVERTIME  
Section 7.1 Overtime. In order for the Company to meet its support obligations, certain  
employees from time to time will be required to work overtime as well as shift work  
during the week, on holidays and weekends. When it becomes necessary to schedule  
overtime, it will first be offered to qualified employees on a voluntary basis within the  
work group/work area where the overtime requirement exists. The Company will attempt  
to equalize overtime among those qualified employees. If management fails to obtain a  
Sufficient number of volunteers to meet the overtime requirement(s), then qualified  
employees may be directed to work the necessary overtime within the work group/work  
area where the overtime requirement exists, in reverse seniority order The Company  
will provide as much advance notice of overtime requirements as possible. The  
Company shall not require an employee to work overtime who has worked three  
consecutive weekends either Saturday or Sunday, or 100 overtime hours in the  
calendar quarter, except in extraordinary circumstances mandated by the customer.  
Section 7.2 Overtime shall be paid at one and one-half (1.5) times an employee's base  
rate, plus shift differential and lead pay if applicable, for all hours worked in excess of  
forty (40) compensated hours in the workweek, including Saturday and Sunday. All  
worked hours shall be credited as hours worked for the purpose of overtime calculation.  
Section 7.3 Wage Payment Basis. Employees shall be paid for time worked computed  
to the nearest one-tenth hour.  
Section 7.4 There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and/or other premium payments.  
No overtime shall be worked except by direction of the Company's appropriate  
management.  
Section 7.5 In any dispute regarding any claim that an employee was not given an  
Opportunity to work overtime, the only award, if any, will be that the employee shall be  
provided an opportunity to work such overtime at the next overtime opportunity.  
18  
### ARTICLE 8  
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
Section 8.1 Authorized Leaves of Absence. F or the time period indicated in each  
instance, leaves of absence (without pay except to the extent Paid Time Off (PTO)  
leave credit can be used and Is used under and in accordance with Articles 16) shall be  
granted to an employee on the active payroll, leave time in accordance with F ederal  
and/or State laws.  
PTO may be used concurrently with the leave, whether the leave falls under Family  
Medical Act (FMLA) or State law.  
The Company shall follow the provisions of USERRA for military leave.  
8.1 (a) When he is appointed by the President or Directing Representative of the  
Union representing the particular unit, or selected to a full-time Union position, for  
the period of time necessary to fill such position.  
8.1 (b) The Company may grant leaves of absence without pay for other reasons  
that the Company considers valid. Should the request for Leave of Absence be  
rejected by the Company, the reason will be discussed with the employee.  
8.1 (c) Requests for leaves of absence must be made in writing to the Company  
and specify the reason for the absence. Any required forms must be submitted  
on a timely manner.  
Section 8.2 Return from Leave of Absence. An employee who applies for return from  
leave of absence on or before the expiration date of his leave will be returned in  
accordance with the following:  
8.2 (a) When an employee returns from a leave of absence that was granted due  
to industrial injury or industrial illhess and is medically able to perform the job  
which was last held;  
8.2 (a)(1) The employee will be returned to that job if this does not conflict  
with Article 12;  
8.2 (a)(2) If this does conflict with Article 12, the employee will be  
considered for any job that he is qualified and able to perform, or (if a  
Surplus occurred that would have affected him during such leave) be  
Subjected to surplusing procedures with Article 12.  
8.2 (b) When an employee returns from a leave of absence described in  
Paragraph 8.2(a) and is not able to perform the job last held due to medical  
limitation, he will be considered for any job that he Is qualified and able to  
19  
perform, or if a Surplus occurred that would have affected him during such leave,  
be subjected to surplusing procedures, all in accordance with Article 12.  
8.2 (c) When an employee returns from a leave of absence that was granted due  
to non-industrial injury or illness, and the period of the leave has not exceeded  
one year, and the employee is able to perform the job last held, the steps and  
procedures of subparagraphs 8.2(a)(1) and 8.2(a)(2), limitation will apply.  
8.2 (d) When an employee returns from a leave of absence described in  
paragraph 8.2(c) and is medically not able to perform the job which he last held  
due to medical limitation, he will be considered for any job which he is qualified  
and able to perform; otherwise, he may be placed on layoff, in accordance with  
Article 12.  
8.2 (e) If leave was granted due to non-industrial injury or illness and the period  
of leave is in excess of one year, the employee may be returned to the job  
titlelclassification last held providing there is an opening in such job title and  
placement in such opening is not inconsistent with Article 12; otherwise, he may  
be placed on layoff.  
8.2 (f) If leave was granted for military service, the provisions of applicable laws  
Shall apply.  
8.2 (g) If leave, irrespective of length, was granted for any reason other than  
those stated in paragraphs 8.2(a) to 8.2(f) inclusive, the employee will be  
returned to the job title last held providing there is an opening in such job title and  
placement in such opening Is not inconsistent with Article 12; otherwise, the  
employee may be placed on layoff.  
8.2 (h) If leave was granted to accept a full-time position with the Union, the  
employee will be returned to the job last held if such job is then populated. If such  
job is not then populated, the employee will be returned to one of equal grade.  
20  
### ARTICLE 9  
### SAFETY  
Section 9.1 Health and Safety. The Company will continue to make reasonable  
provisions for the safety and health of employees. The Union shall have the right to  
confer with the Company on matters pertaining to safety of the employees.  
Section 9.2 Requirement of Medical Examination. In the interest of continued safety  
of individuals and their fellow employees, any applicant for employment or any  
employee may be required through, Government regulations or by the Company to  
undergo a medical examination by a doctor of the Company's selection. If the diagnosis  
Or examination results furnished by the Company doctor are not satisfactory to the  
employee, he may obtain an opinion from his own doctor. If a disagreement still exists,  
an additional doctor, mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union, will be  
retained for his opinion. The Company shall pay for the services of the mutually agreed  
upon doctor. The cost incurred for services of all other non-Company physicians shall  
be the sole responsibility of the employee who gave rise to the dispute.  
21  
### ARTICLE 10  
### SEPARABILITY  
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared  
invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree  
by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this  
Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof and they shall remain in  
full force and effect. The Company and the Union shall meet as soon as possible after  
the enactment of such legislation or decree to reestablish compliance.  
22  
### ARTICLE 11  
### MISCELLANEOUS  
Section 11.1 Sabotage. The Union agrees to report to the Company when it has  
knowledge of any acts of sabotage or damage to or the unauthorized or unlawful taking  
of Company, Government, customer or any other person's or employee's property. The  
Union further agrees, if any such acts occur, to use Its best efforts in assisting to identify  
the guilty person or persons and notify the Company of its investigation.  
Section 11.2 Security Clearance. Nothing in this Agreement shall require the  
Company to employ or continue to employ or give access to any of its facilities or work  
locations, any person or persons to whom the Cognizant Security Agency, in the  
interest of security against espionage or subversive activity, refuses to give access to  
classified information and/or work. However, the Company will give consideration to  
assigning an employee in his job title to an area for which he Is qualified and a  
clearance Is not required.  
Section 11.3 Non-Discrimination. All terms and conditions of employment included in  
this Agreement shall be administered and applied without regard to race, color, religion,  
national origin, status as a disabled or Vietnam era veteran, age, sex, or the presence  
of a handicap except in those instances where age, sex or the absence of a handicap  
may constitute a bona ride occupational qualification. If administration and application of  
the contract is not in contravention of Federal laws, such administration shall not be  
considered discrimination under this Section 11.3. Notwithstanding any other provision  
of Section 11.3 of this Agreement, a grievance alleging a violation of this Section 11.3  
Shall be subject to the grievance procedure and arbitration of Article 4 only if itis filed on  
behalf of, and pertains to, a single employee. Class grievances based on alleged  
violation of this Section 11.3 shall not be subject to the grievance procedure and  
arbitration under this Agreement.  
Section 11.4 Successor and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and  
Shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto, their successors and assigns, but in the  
event the Company ceases to perform on the contract as identified in Article 1, the  
Company shall be released from all obligations on the project(s) so affected under this  
Agreement.  
Section 11.5 Performance of Work. Supervisors may perform the duties of employees  
in the bargaining unit, in emergency situations, or for the purpose of instructing  
employees. Supervisors or other non-represented employees are not to perform any  
unit work solely to prevent a unit employee from earning overtime. The present practice  
of Supervisors performing bargaining unit work will continue. It is further agreed that this  
provision is not intended to displace any full time bargaining unit employee.  
Section 11.6 Travel Reimbursement. Employees will be reimbursed for business  
travel expenses in accordance with the FTD or} TR (whichever is applicable).  
23  
Employees traveling on non-workdays shall receive 8 hours of pay at their base rate of  
pay.  
Employees shall submit their complete and accurate voucher packet to the Company  
Accounts Payable in order to get reimbursed in a timely manner; otherwise, delays may  
be expected. The Company shall make the reimbursement within fourteen (14) days of  
an accurate and complete submission of the voucher packet.  
Section 11.7 Bargaining Unit Status Report. A seniority list will be provided by the  
Union Steward at each location and District Offices as designated by the Union,  
semiannually or upon request. The report will include the following information:  
) Employee name  
) J ob title  
) Seniority date  
) on active layoff  
(a  
(b  
(Cc  
(d  
Section 11.8 Masculine - Feminine References. In construing and interpreting the  
language of this Agreement, reference to the masculine such as “he,” "him,” or "his"  
Shall include reference to the feminine.  
24  
### ARTICLE 12  
### WORKFORCE ADMINISTRATION  
Section 12.1 Surplus Action.  
12.1(a) In effecting a reduction in force within a job classification, the following  
procedure shall be followed. The first selection would be probationary  
employees, followed by voluntary layoff in the classification, followed by full time  
employees in the classification in reverse seniority order subject to the use of  
retentions as defined in Section 12.2.  
12.1(b) Affected full time employees referenced in 12.1(a), will be offered a  
lateral or lower job classification providing they have the required qualifications  
and certifications on the date of the surplus notification for that job if their  
seniority permits.  
Section 12.2 Retention. Retention is the retaining, in a job classification in which the  
Surplus has been declared by the Company, of an individual whose seniority position  
would have caused him to have been surplused while some other employee or  
employees with greater seniority are surplused. In each instance, the retained employee  
will be designated, at the time the retention is used, to be retained in the job  
classification rather than to have him affected by the surplus action.  
12.2(a) In determining the number of allowable retentions, calendar six-month  
periods shall be used. The first period in each year shall be from J anuary 1 to  
J une 30, inclusive, and the second period shall be from J uly 1 to December 31,  
inclusive.  
12.2(b) For each period, the allowable number of retentions applicable shall be  
the number resulting from applying 3% of the total number of employees in the  
bargaining unit at the beginning of each six-month period. The number of  
allowable retentions shall be computed to the nearest whole number and a  
fraction of 1/2 or more shall be treated as one. In no instance shall the number  
of retentions allowed be less than one per period.  
12.2(c) The Company's use of retentions in the number allowed or the surpluses  
resulting from the application and use of such retentions shall not be subject to  
challenge or to grievance procedure. The District Office and the designated  
representative of the Local Union will be notified prior to the use of retentions.  
The District Office and the designated representative shall be accorded the  
Opportunity to offer inputs relative to the administration of the Company's  
retention provisions.  
Section 12.3 Recall From Layoff. Employees who are on active layoff status from job  
classifications having job openings will be recalled in order of seniority providing they  
have the required qualifications and are eligible for re-certification for that job.  
25  
12.3(a) Employees will be notified of recall in writing by certified mail to their last  
known address on the Company's records, with a copy to the Union, and the  
employee will be required to report to work within fourteen (14) calendar days  
following receipt of the written notice. Failure to do so will result in automatic loss  
of seniority and the employee will be terminated. It is the sole responsibility of the  
employee to keep the Company properly informed of his/her address and  
telephone number.  
Section 12.4 Temporary Layoffs. When the Company determines it is necessary to  
reduce the number of employees working within a job classification, employees may be  
temporarily laid-off for not more than 14 calendar days within a 60 calendar day period.  
Such layoff shall be in the reverse order of seniority. The Company agrees that the  
union will be notified when possible in advance.  
Section 12.5 Temporary Assignment. The Company may temporarily assign  
employees to perform work assignments described for other job classifications.  
Section 12.6 Employee Requested Transfer. The Company will maintain an  
environment in which employees can make Known their interest in transferring to other  
positions which they are qualified to perform. An Employee Requested Transfer system,  
including the posting of openings on Company bulletin boards, will be established which  
will allow each employee to make application for transfer and receive consideration as a  
candidate for open positions for which qualified. Both parties agree that continued  
Service over a period of time normally does increase the worth of an employee to  
his/her employer. Therefore, when qualifications are substantially equal the Company  
agrees to recognize seniority in case of promotions in the bargaining unit. Neither the  
Company's procedure nor the consideration as a candidate for the job transfer shall be  
Subject to the grievance procedure.  
Section 12.7 Drug and Alcohol Testing. The Union recognizes the Company's desire  
to maintain a drug-and alcohol-free workplace, and to comply with laws and regulations  
addressing that subject. The Company will implement drug and alcohol testing (a) to the  
extent necessary to comply with said laws and regulations and (b) the reasonable  
Suspicion, post-accident and Employee Assistance Program or positive test follow-up  
testing that the Company feels necessary to achieve a drug- and alcohol-free  
workplace. Any other forms of drug and alcohol testing which may be identified by the  
Company as necessary to meet its drug- and alcohol-free workplace goals will be  
discussed with the Union and implementation will require mutual agreement of the  
parties. The Company and Union have agreed to use a balanced approach to achieving  
a drug and alcohol-free workplace.  
26  
### ARTICLE 13  
### J URY AND WITNESS DUTY  
Section 13.1 An employee absent from work due to required jury duty will be paid for  
such lost hours at his current straight time base rate, including shift differential where  
applicable, up to a maximum of eight hours per day, for each regular workday the  
governmental body that summoned the employee for jury duty pays the employee.  
Employees will be paid eight (8) hours jury duty pay and will be excused from their  
scheduled shift if they serve more than four (4) hours on the day so assigned as a juror.  
All other employees must report for work provided there are more than four (4) hours  
available on their shift either prior to their scheduled report time for jury duty or after  
their release from jury duty (two (2) hours of this time will be considered as travel  
preparation time). Second and third shift employees summoned to jury duty will be  
temporarily assigned to first shift on a weekly basis during the time required to serve.  
Fees received for jury duty will not be deducted from such pay. The employee will  
furnish to the Company evidence satisfactory to the Company showing the performance  
of jury duty that meets the requirements of this Section 13.1.  
Section 13.2 An employee absent from work in order to comply with a subpoena as a  
witness in a federal or state court of law, will be paid for such lost hours at his current  
Straight time base rate, including shift differential where applicable, up to a maximum of  
eight (8) hours per day, for each regular workday for which he Is paid a daily witness  
fee. Employees will be paid eight (8) hours witness duty and will be excused from their  
scheduled shift if they serve more than four (4) hours on the day So serving as a  
witness. All other employees must report to work provided there are more than four (4)  
hours available on their shift either prior to their scheduled report time for witness duty  
or after their release from witness duty (two (2) hours of this time may be considered as  
travel preparation time). Witness fees will not be deducted from such pay. An employee  
is not entitled to such pay under this Section 13.2 in circumstances where the employee  
(1) is called as a witness against the Company or its interests; or (2) is called as a  
witness on his own behalf in an action in which he is a party; or (3) voluntarily seeks to  
testify as a witness; or (4) is a witness in a case arising from or related to his outside  
employment or outside business activities. The employee will furnish to the Company  
evidence satisfactory to the Company showing his attendance as a witness that meets  
the requirements of this Section 13.2.  
27  
### ARTICLE 14  
### SHORT-TERM MILITARY DUTY  
An employee who is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, who is  
required to enter active annual training duty or temporary special services, shall be paid  
his normal straight time earnings, including differentials where applicable, up to a  
maximum of ten (10) workdays each United States Government fiscal year. The amount  
due the employee under this Article shall be reduced by the amount received from the  
government body identified with such training duty or services, for the period of such  
duty, up to the maximum period mentioned above. Such Items as subsistence (does not  
include allowance for quarters), uniform and travel allowance shall be included in  
determining pay received from state or federal government.  
28  
### ARTICLE 15  
### RATES OF PAY  
Section 15.1 Base Rate Structure.  
Effective Date of Increase  
CBAJOB TITLE Current Rate April 1, 2018 April 1, 2019 | April 1, 2020  
Fully Qualified Instructor $66.50 $68.50 $70.56  
Entry Level Instructor $49.16 $56.52 $58.22 $59.97  
Scheduler $31.53 $35.63 $36.70 $37.80  
   
Section 15.2 Reassignments. When an employee is downgraded for any reason their  
hourly rate will be reduced to the hourly rate of the employee's classification.  
Section 15.3 Shift Differential. When an shift starts at or after 1100, he  
Shall receive a shift differential of one dollar ($1.00) per hour.  
Section 15.4 Report Time/Call-In Time. If an employee reports for work in accordance  
with instructions he shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his base rate.  
Report time will not apply in case of emergency shutdown arising out of any condition  
beyond the Company's control. An employee who leaves work of his/her own volition, or  
because of incapacity (other than industrial injury), or is discharged or suspended after  
beginning work, will be paid only for the number of hours actually worked during that  
day. An employee that leaves work because of incapacity due to industrial injury will be  
paid eight hours pay at this base rate. An employee who is required to work after normal  
duty hours by the Site Lead will log one (1) hour or time worked, whichever is greater.  
Section 15.5 The decision to apply a pay additive shall be at the sole discretion of the  
Company and such rights shall not be subject to the grievance. An employee assigned  
in writing by the Company for a period of 40 consecutive hours to any of the additives  
Shall be paid a premium as identified below.  
### PROGRAM SUPPORT ADDITIVES  
### LEAD $2  
### SCENARIO GENERATION $1  
### DATABASE MANAGEMENT $1  
lf an employee is assigned to any of the Program Support Additives, they would receive  
their additives; however, in no event will an employee receive more than $3 per hour for  
any combination of the above additives.  
29  
Section 15.6 Effective Date of Increases. The actual date of all increases as identified  
in this Article will be the beginning of the first pay period following the effective date of  
change as shown in the wage rate tables.  
Section 15.7 All newly hired SME/Instructors are placed into the Entry Instructor/SME  
job. Upon certification by the Site Manager or 6 months from the date hired, whichever  
is less, they will be promoted to the Certified Instructor/SME job. To maintain the  
Certified Instructor/SME pay, employees must maintain their instructor qualifications.  
30  
### ARTICLE 16  
### PAID TIME OFF (PTO)  
Section 16.1 Accumulation of PTO.  
16.1(a) Employees, on the active payroll shall earn paid time off in accordance  
with the accrual schedule below:  
Accrual per Annual Hours of  
Employment Time Pay Period PTO  
Date of hire to 3 years 16 days 128 hours  
Beginning of 4" year through 11" year 21 days 168 hours  
Beginning of 12" year through 13" year 22 days 176 hours  
Beginning of 16" year through 17" year 24 days  
Beginning of 18" year through 19" year 25 days 200 hours  
Beginning of 20" year 26 days 208 hours  
A prorated award of PTO are made to employees at the completion of each pay  
period in accordance with the schedule as listed in Article 16.1(a). Credit will be  
given for the employee's total length of service which is continuous with the  
Company, and other predecessor contractors who performed similar work, and  
was determined to be a predecessor to the Company under the Service Contract  
Act.  
192 hours  
   
Beginning 14‘ year through 15" year  
16.1(b) An employee who cycles on his paid time eligibility date with unused  
PTO available will continue to accumulate such credits from year to year to a  
maximum of two-hundred forty (240) total hours. Employees who are terminated  
for cause, voluntary termination, or should AOCE lose the contract to a  
successor will be paid out at the base rate for all the PTO in their  
bank at the time of termination.  
16.1(c) PTO will not be accrued during period on layoff, strike, or after the first  
thirty calendar days of a leave of absence.  
31  
Section 16.2 Eligibility conditions.  
16.2(a) The PTO eligibility date of an employee shall be the date of last hire by  
the Company, which the exception of former employees who are rehired with  
reinstatement rights following military service or recalled from active layoff status,  
which will retain their previous PTO eligibility dates.  
16.2(b) An employee's PTO eligibility date will not be affected by time spent on  
an approved leave of absence or other payroll classification.  
Section 16.3 Use of PTO.  
16.3(a) An employee shall be eligible to use PTO credits as soon as credits have  
been awarded during his first year of employment. Payment for PTO shall be at  
the employee's straight time base rate, including shift differential where  
applicable, not to exceed a maximum of eight (8) hours pay for any one day of  
absence.  
16.3(b) All PTO must be approved by the employee's supervisor. Employees  
Shall request PTO on forms provided by the Company or via e-mail to their  
Supervisor, and the Company will endeavor to schedule PTO as requested. In  
scheduling PTO, the Company will attempt to meet its production requirements  
by use of employees on a voluntary basis, and, failing in this, the seniors will be  
given their preference of available PTO dates to the extent established PTO  
schedules will permit.  
16.3(c) When PTO cannot be charged because the employee has exhausted all  
PTO credits and he is not yet eligible for an award of his next PTO credits, the  
employee may request for Advance PTO up to 40 hours. The employee must  
complete the required form and pre-approved by the supervisor prior to logging  
negative PTO. Anything in excess of 40 hours will be Leave Without Pay.  
16.4 It is expressly agreed between the parties that the terms of this Agreement, and  
any accrual benefits, are binding on any successor contractor or successor employer  
whether said successor takes over all or part of the operation. Specifically, but without  
limitation, accrued, but untaken PTO shall continue as an obligation of any successor  
contractor or successor employer, and the employees covered by the collective  
bargaining agreement shall continue to have their individual credit with said successor  
the full amount of PTO accrued, and shall continue to accrue benefits of this article.  
16.5 Bereavement Leave. Up to three (3) days of Bereavement Leave with pay will be  
granted to an employee on the active payroll who, because of death in his immediate  
family, takes time off from work during his normal work schedule as such term is defined  
in Article 6 of this Agreement. Such pay shall be for eight (8) hours at his straight time  
base rate, including shift differential (if applicable), for each such day off; however, such  
pay will not be applicable if the employee received pay for such days off under any  
32  
other provision of this Agreement. Bereavement leave must be taken within the thirty  
(30) days following the death, funeral or service. For the purpose of this Section, the  
"immediate family" is defined as follows: spouse, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-  
in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, children, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,  
grandparents, spouse's grandparents, grandchildren, stepmother, stepfather,  
Stepchildren, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, and half-sister. The Company may  
require proof of death. In addition, an employee will be granted bereavement leave fora  
Stillborn child if the employee provides a certificate of fetal death which has been  
certified by the state or attending physician.  
33  
### ARTICLE 17  
### HOLIDAYS  
Section 17.1 The following holidays shall be observed by the bargaining unit personnel:  
New Year's Day  
Martin Luther King Day  
Presidents' Day  
Memorial Day  
Independence Day  
Labor Day  
Columbus Day  
Veterans’ Day  
Thanksgiving Day  
Christmas Day  
The actual date of observance will be determined by the customer.  
Section 17.2 Unworked Holidays. Eligible employees shall receive eight (8) hours pay  
for unworked holidays (those holidays designated above), at their base rate in effect at  
the time the holiday occurs, plus shift differential, if applicable.  
Section 17.3 Worked Holidays. Employees who are required to work on the above  
named holidays shall receive the pay due them for the holidays plus double their base  
rate for all hours worked on such holiday, plus shift differential, if applicable, unless the  
employee starts to work at 10:30 p.m., or thereafter on that day.  
Section 17.4 Holidays During PTO. Should a holiday occur while an employee Is on  
PTO, the employee shall be allowed to take one (1) extra day of PTO in lieu of the  
holiday as such.  
Section 17.5 Holiday Observance When Occurring on a Scheduled Day of Rest.  
When a holiday falls on an employee's scheduled day of rest, the holiday will be moved  
in accordance with the following:  
17.5(a) If the holiday falls on the first day of rest, the last workday immediately  
preceding the holiday will be observed as the holiday.  
17.5(b) If the holiday falls on the second day of rest, the first workday  
immediately following the holiday will be observed as the holiday.  
17.5(c) In the event of a customer decision to declare an additional Holiday, and  
to suspend operations, the Company will, if the "direct charge" to the contract Is  
allowed, compensate employees at their present rate for all hours lost.  
34  
### ARTICLE 18  
### GROUP BENEFITS  
Section 18.1 The Company will provide a pay additive to assist employees to purchase  
these benefits.  
4/1/2018 4/1/2019 4/1/2020  
$4.00 $7.50 $7.75 $8.00  
Section 18.2 Type of Group Benefits Package for Employees on the Active  
Payroll. The Company shall provide employees (and their dependents) with the  
following benefit options:  
a. Group life insurance and accidental death & dismemberment  
b. Group short- and long-term disability insurance  
c. Supplemental Life Insurance  
d. Flexible Spending Account (FSA) - Medical and/or Dependent Care  
IAM National Benefit Trust Plan provides medical, dental, and vision benefits to all full-  
time employees and their covered dependents. The Summary Plan Documents are  
provided directly from the IAM National Benefits Trust Plan.  
Employees who opt out of IAM National Benefit Trust Plan medical, dental, and/or vision  
insurance may purchase the benefits from the Company.  
Employees may accept or decline participation, at their discretion, immediately after hire  
and during annual open enrollment periods specified by the Company and the IAM  
National Benefit Trust Plan (please note that open enrollment periods may not  
necessary be at the same time). In accordance with the benefit plan documents, the  
Company shall allow employees subject to personnel actions (i.e. “qualifying event”  
such as birth of a child, divorce, marriage, etc.) to adjust their participations options  
immediately following such an action.  
Section 18.3 Administration. The Group Benefits Package shall be administered by  
the insurance companies, health care contractors or administrative agents with whom  
the Company enters into contractual relationships for the purpose of providing and/or  
administering the coverage contemplated by the Group Benefits Package and no  
question or issue arising under the administration of such Group Benefits Package or  
the contracts and/or administrative agreements identified therewith shall be subject to  
the grievance procedure or arbitration provisions of Article 4 of this Agreement.  
Section 18.4 Copies of Policies to be Furnished to Union. Copies of the policies,  
contracts and administrative agreements executed pursuant to this Article 18, Group  
Benefits, shall be furnished to the Union. The coverage’s and benefits indicated in the  
Group Benefits Package, the rights of eligible employees in respect to such coverage’s,  
and the settlement of all claims arising out of such coverage’s shall be in accordance  
35  
with the provisions, terms and rules set forth in such policies, contracts or administrative  
agreements.  
Section 18.5 Federal or State Programs. If during the term of this Agreement, there is  
mandated by federal or state government a program that affords to employees covered  
by this Agreement similar benefits (such as but not limited to medical and dental  
benefits) to those that are afforded by this Agreement, benefits afforded by this  
Agreement shall be replaced by such federal or state program. The Company will  
comply with the provisions for the furnishing of such program to the extent required by  
law. No question or issue regarding the level of benefits under the state or federal  
program will be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure of Article 4.  
36  
### ARTICLE 19  
### SAVINGS PLAN  
Section 19.1 Continuation of Plan. Subject to the continuing approval of the  
Commissioner of Internal Revenue and of other cognizant governmental authorities, as  
more particularly hereinafter specified and to the provisions of the AOCE 401k Savings  
Plan (hereinafter called the Plan) in the form now in effect as to the employees within  
the unit to which this Agreement relates shall continue to be effective while this  
Agreement Is in effect as to such employees in accordance with and subject to the  
terms, conditions and limitations of the Plan.  
19.1(a) Company Matching Contributions. The Company shall contribute to a  
Company Account on behalf of each Member. Such contribution shall be equal to  
one hundred (100) percent of the first four (4) percent of the Member's elective  
contribution.  
Section 19.2 IAM Pension Each Month, the Company will contribute an hourly  
amount (stated below) for each hour that an employee is compensated for. The  
Company will not be required to pay in contributions for time taken off without pay or  
unpaid military duty.  
37  
### ARTICLE 20  
### DURATION  
This Agreement shall become effective as of 1 April 2018 (which date is the date when  
this Agreement was executed, sometimes referred to as the "effective date of this  
Agreement"), and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight, 31 March 2020 and  
Shall automatically be renewed for consecutive periods of one year thereafter (after 31  
March 2020), unless either party shall notify the other in writing, at least sixty days, but  
not more than seventy-five days prior to March of any calendar year, beginning with 2020  
of its desire to terminate the Agreement, in which event this Agreement shall terminate at  
midnight at the close of such March unless renewed or extended by mutual written  
agreement. In the case of such notice, the parties agree to meet immediately thereafter  
for the purpose of negotiating a new agreement or a written renewal of this Agreement.  
Termination of agreement can only be taken if after 31 March 2020; ten (10) days written  
notice is served on the other party of Its intention to do so. The contract shall terminate  
after such ten (10) day period unless specifically extended by written agreement.  
38  
### MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
### BETWEEN  
### ALPHA-OMEGA CHANGE ENGINEERING, INC.  
### AND  
### INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS AFL-CIO  
### DISTRICT LODGE 110 AND LOCAL LODGE 2296  
Seymour Johnson AFB, North Carolina  
Dated: 17 January 2018  
The Company (“Alpha-Omega Change Engineering, Inc.”) and the Union (“IAMAW-District  
Lodge 110 and its Local Lodge 2296”) have met and negotiated at arms’ length and in good faith  
all matters subject to bargaining, and upon successful ratification of the membership and  
approval of the Customer, will have a Collective Bargaining Agreement in full force and effect.  
For the Company: For the Union:  
ames E. Hartney (i ody Bennett  
Chief Executive Officer IAM Aerospace Coordinator  
### SIGNATURES OF THE PARTIES  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union have caused this Agreement  
to be signed by their authorized representatives.  
Dated this 17" day of January 2018:  
   
international Association of Alpha-Omega Change Engineering,  
Machinists and Aerospace Inc. (AOCE)  
rkers, AFL-CIO  
y E. Hartney /  
Aerospace Coordinator Chief Executive Officer  
Cruz  
### DBR  
   
39