K9872  
### SOUTHEASTERN BUILDING AGREEMENT  
May 1, 2016 - April 30, 2019  
THIS AGREEMENT, by and between, or on behalf of the parties and in the capacities and status designated in  
Article II, hereof, establishes rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, fringe benefits, and vacations, where  
applicable, and other terms and provisions conceming relations and collective bargaining relations and  
collective bargaining between or involving such parties on construction work in the State of Minnesota. Throughout  
this Agreement, wherever the masculine gender appears, the feminine form applies equally and may be substituted  
therefore.  
NOW, THEREFORE, for such purposes, it is agreed as follows:  
### ARTICLE 1  
### Considerations for Agreement  
The consideration for this Agreement are the mutual promises of the parties and their mutual purposes to establish,  
maintain and promote sound and harmonious labor relations.  
It is desirable to maintain the cooperative relationships existing during past years between the Employers and the  
Employees represented by the Union.  
### ARTICLE 2  
### Designations of Parties  
A. The Southeastem Building Contractors division of the Associated General Contractors of Minnesota, (herein  
called AGC) is a party to this Agreement in a representative capacity, and as agent only acting on behalf of certain  
of its members who have agreed to be bound to the terms of this Agreement, and the AGC is entitled to recognition,  
in such capacity, as agent and collective bargaining representative for the Employers who are or may become parties  
hereto, for all purposes of this Agreement, including its nght in such capacity, to represent such Employer parties  
before NLRB or otherwise pursuant to and/or in aid, support, or enforcement of the terms and provisions of this  
Agreement.  
B. The Laborers District Council of Minnesota and North Dakota on behalf of its affiliated Local Union 405, (herein  
called the Union) on their own behalf and on behalf of the Employees whom they represent and on whose behalf  
they are recognized or are to be recognized are parties hereto. The status of said Union is dual, in that they are  
parties hereto as principals and also as agents for the Employees whom they represent and on whose behalf they are  
recognized or to be recognized as hereinafter provided. ‘The status of the Union is several and joint, as related to  
other craft unions.  
### ARTICLE 3  
### Union Recognition  
The Employers hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of the Employees  
in the craft signatory to this Agreement, in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, fringe benefits,  
vacations where applicable, and other conditions of employment. The respective Union is hereby recognized  
hereunder by the Employers as the sole exclusive bargaining representatives of the Employees represented by them.  
The respective Union represents that they are qualified for such recognition.  
### ARTICLE 4  
### Scope of Agreement  
This Agreement shall govem work done in the following geographical jurisdiction consisting of the counties of  
Dodge, Faribault, Fillmore, Freebom, Goodhue County south of County Road 9 including the city limits of Lake  
City, Houston, Le Sueur, Mower, Olmsted, Rice, Steele, Wabasha, Waseca and Winona.  
### ARTICLE 5  
### Union Security  
The Union recognized under Article 3 of this Agreement shall be entitled to union security to the extent that each  
Employee in the collective bargaining unit represented by such Union shall, on the eighth (8th) day following the  
beginning of employment in such collective bargaining unit by such Employer under the coverage of this Agreement  
or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, be required to become and remain a member in good  
standing of such Union as a condition of employment.  
The Employer will be required to dismiss Employees who refuse to comply with this Union Shop provision after  
personal notification by a bonafide representative of the Union to a responsible representative of the Employer on  
the job. The Union shall be entitled to approach individual Employees for organizational purposes as provided by  
law.  
### ARTICLE 6  
### Hiring Employees  
There shall be no discrimination or harassment against any Employee because of affiliation or non-affiliation with  
the Union, race, color, age, sex, disability, creed, political or religious beliefs.  
Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute a hiring hall or to require the Employers to call only the  
Union for Employees, or to hire only Employees referred by the Union.  
When called and the Union fails to provide qualified workers within twenty-four (24) hours, the Employer shall be  
free to employ anyone to perform the work at the appropriate scale as contained herein.  
The Employer shall inform Employees that the Employer is a Union Contractor and as such, Employees on or before  
the eighth (8th) day of employment must become and remain Union members in good standing as a condition of  
employment.  
On May 1, 1995, the Construction Craft Laborer Apprenticeship Program has been established. The Joint  
Apprenticeship and Training Committee is made up of an equal number of Employer Trustees and Union  
Trustees. The Parties incorporate by reference the terms and conditions of the Minnesota Construction Craft  
Laborers’ Apprenticeship Program. Copies of the Apprenticeship Standards are available upon request.  
A. Journey Laborers and Enrolled Apprentices. ‘The Employers agree to give the Union the first opportunity  
when hiring Joumey Laborers and Enrolled Apprentices. First opportunity shall be defined to mean that the  
Employer shall call the Union for not less than the first 50% of their Joumey Laborers and Enrolled Apprentices.  
B. Apprentice Candidates. An Employer seeking to hire an Apprentice Candidate shall first contact the Union  
Local with geographical jurisdiction. The Local shall refer to the Employer an Enrolled Apprentice from the Local’s  
out-of-work list. If an Apprentice is not available from the Local Union, then the Employer may directly engage an  
Apprentice Candidate and then refer that individual to the Apprenticeship Program as a sponsor. In recognition of  
the need for a safe and efficient workforce, the Employer will not hire an individual who has had an Apprenticeship  
Agreement cancelled by the JATC for failure to meet apprentice responsibilities and obligations within the previous  
twelve (12) month period. The individual must be enrolled with the Apprenticeship Program as an Apprentice within  
eight (8) business days of employment.  
In situations where the Contractor determines as a means to advance business relationships or in other extenuating  
circumstances, the Contractor may directly hire an Apprentice Candidate, enrolled Apprentice, or Joumey Laborer  
after notifying a Local Union Representative.  
If an Apprentice Candidate is not registered as an Apprentice at the Apprenticeship office within eight (8) business  
days of employment, the worker shall be deemed a Joumey Laborer for wage and benefit purposes. Failure to  
register may result in action pursuant to Article 11.  
### ARTICLE 7  
### Insurance and Taxes  
A. The Employer agrees to carry any and all insurance and pay all taxes as required by applicable State and Federal  
law.  
B. The Employer further agrees to pay the State Worker's Compensation Insurance and into the State  
Unemployment Compensation Fund such amounts as are due from and after the date Employees from the Union are  
employed on the job.  
C. The parties hereby agree that the Employers, who are parties to this Agreement may, at their option, participate in  
the Union Construction Workers Compensation Program, a collectively bargained workers compensation program,  
which will enable the Employers to provide workers compensation benefits to eligible Employees under this  
Collective Bargaining Agreement. The rules and regulations of the Program will apply to participation.  
### ARTICLE 8  
### Conflicting Agreements  
The Employers agree not to enter into any labor agreements covering construction jobs, exclusive of maintenance  
and repair shops, with their Employees on whose behalf any of the Unions have been granted recognition hereunder  
individually or collectively which in any way conflicts with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.  
If the Union enters into any Agreements with any individual Employer or group of Employers competing in the  
same type of work which provides for his, its, or their Employees less favorable wages, hours or conditions than  
herein specified, the Employer parties hereto may open this Agreement for the express and exclusive purpose of  
negotiation less favorable wages, hours or conditions.  
### ARTICLE 9  
### Violation of Agreement  
A. Inthe event the Employer deliberately violates the provisions of this Agreement relating to wages, hours of work,  
or overtime differentials, any back pay owed to the Employee because of such violation shall be paid by the  
Employer at the rate of two (2) times the standard straight time and overtime rate. The vacation benefit, as a taxable  
wage, Shall be included in any such back pay calculations.  
B. Reasonable evidence of clerical error or honest mistake in interpretation of this Agreement shall exempt the  
Employer from the double penalty provisions. In such a case the Employer shall be required to pay only the actual  
amount of back pay involved, at the standard straight time and/or overtime rate.  
C. When there is evidence of collusion between the Employer and Employee to violate the Agreement, any back pay  
collected shall be made payable to the Employee, and shall be deposited with the Union, if the Arbitrator so orders.  
### ARTICLE 10  
### Discharge  
The Employers may discharge any Employee whose work or behavior is unsatisfactory or who fails to observe the  
Safety precautions or other reasonable rules and regulations prescribed by the Employers or any govemmental  
agency. No Employee shall be discharged for refusing to work under unsafe conditions.  
### ARTICLE 11  
### Settlement of Disputes  
A. Any controversy over the interpretation of, or adherence to the terms of this Agreement shall first be attempted to  
be resolved between the Union and Employer. Any controversy or grievance shall be deemed to be waived unless  
submitted in wnting within ten (10) working days after the first occurrence of the event or knowledge of the  
condition giving rise to the grievance.  
B. If a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached within five (5) working days the matter may be brought to the  
Labor-Management Basic Trades Disputes Board, if both parties agree in writing. In such case the grieving party  
Shall submit a statement of the claim and facts of the matter to other parties including the Employer and the  
Union. (The rules of the Disputes Board shall be those already adopted by the Joint Committee.)  
Both parties must sign Agreement to bring matter to the Disputes Board. Both parties must sign the document  
binding them to the Board decision. If either party does not attend meeting after signing above and being notified of  
the meeting date and time, a decision will be rendered though they are not present.  
Decisions of the Disputes Board will be drafted at the conclusion of the meeting, signed by members of the Board,  
and distributed to both parties at that time.  
C. The Disputes Board is made up of equal numbers of Management and Labor representatives, who will meet  
regularly to settle any disputes, other than junsdictional disputes to avoid work stoppages, or other problems  
affecting productivity. This Board shall have no power to add to, delete, or modify, any of the terms or provisions of  
this Agreement. All decisions of the Disputes Board shall be final and binding on the parties.  
D. Arbitration. Should the Disputes Board, as established, be unable to reach a decision on the matter before it, or  
because of a deadlock (lack of majority) or if either party refuses to use the Disputes Board, then the matter may be  
referred to Arbitration. Within ten (10) working days after the dispute is referred to Arbitration, the parties shall ask  
the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for a list of five (5) Arbitrators from which the aggrieved party shall  
first strike one (1) name and the other party shall then strike one (1) name, and the parties will altemately strike  
names until there is one (1) name left. The final name shall be selected as the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator thus selected  
Shall set the time and place for hearings, which shall begin no later than ten (10) working days after his or her  
Selection, with the final decision to be handed down in not more than ten (10) working days after the last hearing is  
held. The time may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties.  
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties to this Agreement who are the parties to the  
dispute; provided, however, that the Arbitrator shall have no power to add to, delete, or modify any provisions of  
this Agreement.  
The Employer and the Union will share equally all fees and expenses of the Arbitrator.  
All work and other conditions prevailing immediately prior to the raising of the question to be decided under this  
Article shall remain unchanged until final decision has been reached hereunder.  
### ARTICLE 12  
### Management  
Management reserves the right to manage its jobs in the best interest of Management; the right to retain or dispense  
with Employees; to reduce or increase the number of Employees needed on each project, crew activity or piece of  
equipment. Under no condition will Union Representatives make demands for more Employees in a crew on specific  
projects, insofar as it does not conflict with this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 13  
### Safety  
A. Accident and injury free operations shall be the goal of all Employers and Employees. To this end the Employer  
and Employee will, to the best of their ability abide by and live up to the requirements of the several State and  
Federal Construction Safety Codes and Regulations.  
B. Employers may require drug and alcohol testing of Employees and applicants for employment including random  
testing if the Employer has adopted a written drug and alcohol testing policy complying with the provisions of the  
LUC program and applicable statues.  
C. To this end, the Employer shall from time to time issue rules or notices to its Employees regarding on the job  
Safety requirements. Any Employee violating such rules or notices shall be subject to disciplinary action. No  
Employee may be discharged for refusing to work under unsafe conditions.  
D. Such safety equipment as required by govemmental regulations shall be provided without cost to the Employees.  
At the Employer's option, the Employees may be required to sign for safety equipment and shall be obligated to  
retum same upon discharge, layoff, quit or other in comparable condition as when issued, providing  
reasonable wear and tear. The Employer shall have the nght to withhold the cost of such safety equipment if not  
retumed.  
### ARTICLE 14  
### Pickets, Banners and Strikes  
The Employer shall not require an Employee to go through a primary picket line or banner to work. It shall not be a  
violation of this Agreement and it shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary action in the event an Employee  
decides not to cross a primary picket line or banner. This clause shall not apply to secondary picket lines, banners or  
watch persons employed by the Contractor.  
The AGC or its Employer members signatory to this Agreement will not sue the Local Union for refusal to require  
Employees to go through a separate gate. ‘The individual Employee who voluntarily refuses to go through a separate  
gate will not be discharged or disciplined and may be hired if work is available, but not without back pay.  
### ARTICLE 15  
### Strikes, Lockouts, W ork Interference  
The Union and Employers agree that there shall be no strikes, lockout, work stoppages, slow down, sit down, stay  
in, or other concerted interference with the business or affairs by any of said Union and/or the members  
thereof, and there shall be no lockout during the existence of this Agreement.  
Spread-work tactics, slow down, stand-by crews, forcing overtime has been and is condemned by both parties, and  
the Employees engaging in same shall be liable for disciplinary action.  
### ARTICLE 16  
### Subcontractors  
A. The counties of Olmsted and Wabasha and that part of Goodhue County south of County Road 9 including the  
city limits of Lake City:  
The Employer agrees that, while subletting or contracting out Laborers work at the job site, the Employer will sublet  
or contract such work only to subcontractor who has signed or is otherwise bound by a written labor agreement  
entered into with the Union.  
When situations arise where it is claimed that no Union Subcontractor is available for the proposed work, the  
Employer and the Union shall meet and agree upon a solution, which may include a Project Agreement.  
The Union agrees that when the Employer is required by any imposed requirement to sublet, contract out or award  
bargaining unit work to any Minority, Disadvantaged, Small and/or Female Business Enterprise or any other such  
similarly designated enterprise, and a dispute exists, the Employer and the Union shall meet and agree upon an  
equitable solution to the dispute, which may include a Project Agreement.  
B. The counties of Dodge, Faribault, Fillmore, Freebom, Houston, Le Sueur, Mower, Rice, Steele, Waseca and  
Winona:  
The parties agree not to subcontract any work that the Employer normally performs in order to avoid the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement. The Employer shall make every effort to subcontract only to signatory Contractors. In  
the event that there are no signatory subcontractors available, it is understood that the Employer shall contact the  
Local Union prior to commencement of said work. If the Employer subcontracts work to be performed at the job  
site, the subcontractor shall agree to abide by the hours of work, conditions of work, equivalent wage rates, and  
fringes set forth in this Agreement except where the subcontractor has a labor agreement with a bona fide AFL-CIO  
union covering the work.  
### ARTICLE 17  
### Union Representatives  
Only authorized Union Representatives shall have the nght to confer with Employees on the job. Each and every  
Union Representative shall first contact the job superintendent or foreman, or whoever is in charge of the project,  
before conferring with any Employee. At no time shall such Union Representative hinder or interfere with the  
progress of the work.  
It shall be the obligation of the Union Representative to adhere to all pertinent safety rules of the particular job while  
on the Employer's premises.  
### ARTICLE 18  
### Rotation of Employees  
The Union may not require rotation of Employees during the life of this Agreement, other than Apprentices shifted  
for purposes of training.  
### ARTICLE 19  
### Payroll Records  
In case of a dispute arising over hours, wages and fringes, the Union shall have the right to examine the payroll  
records of the individual Employees covered by this Agreement upon which there is a dispute. Prior to the actual  
examination, a written request shall be submitted to the Employer involved.  
### ARTICLE 20  
### Payday and Wage Payment  
A. All regular, full-time Employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid in full each week. Not more than seven  
(7) days shall be held back, including payday.  
B. Wages shall be paid at or before the end of the shift of the designated payday. Failure on the part of the Employer  
to comply with this provision shall entitle the Employee to an extra four (4) hour's pay.  
C. When an Employee is laid off, or discharged he shall receive all money due him by negotiable check within  
twenty-four (24) hours. If the Employee does not appear to collect his check the Employer will immediately mail his  
check to the Employee's last known address. This provision is intended to conform with Minnesota Statute §181.13.  
D. An Employee who quits will be paid any wages due him at the next regular payday.  
FE. The Employer agrees to provide the following information on Employee’s check stub: hours, date, regular pay,  
overtime pay, gross pay, deductions, net pay.  
### ARTICLE 21  
### Fringe Benefits  
The Employer agrees to contribute every month, not later than the 15” day of the following month, hereinafter  
called the “due date,” such sums for Pension, Health and Welfare, Vacation, Training/Apprenticeship and LECET as  
is designated in the wage schedule of this Agreement for each hour worked by all Employees covered by this  
Agreement. The Fringe Benefit Funds shall be known separately as the Minnesota Laborers Pension Fund, the  
Minnesota Laborers Health and Welfare Fund, the Minnesota Laborers Vacation Fund, the Construction Laborers  
Education, Training and Apprenticeship Fund of Minnesota and North Dakota and the Minnesota Laborers-  
Employers Cooperation and Education Trust (LECET) Fund and collectively as the Minnesota Laborers Fringe  
Benefits Fund under separate Trust Agreements, hereinafter called “Fund(s)”, copies of which are available upon  
request from the Fund Administrator, and to which the Employer is automatically bound. The Trustees shall equally  
represent the Union and the Employer.  
1. The fringe benefit contributions are to be paid on one check and submitted to the agent of the Funds as designated  
by the Trustees.  
2. (a) The Employer is required to accurately report all hours worked by each Employee covered by this Agreement  
on a report form provided by the Fund Administrator.  
(b) All fringe benefit contributions are paid on an hourly basis on all hours worked. This includes straight time, one  
and one-half time and double time. The Vacation contribution is taxable and is paid for work at one and  
one-half and double time (see Schedule 10). ‘The Pension, Health and Welfare, Training and LECET contributions  
are not pyramided, but shall be paid for all hours worked. Example: If hourly wage is $3.00 plus $.10 for Pension,  
Health and Welfare, Training and LECET plus $.02 Vacation; time and one-half overtime wage rate is $4.50 plus  
$.10 for Pension, Health and Welfare, Training and LECET plus $.03 Vacation; double time overtime wage rate is  
$6.00 plus $.10 for Pension, Health and Welfare, Training and LECET plus $.04 Vacation.  
(c) Laborers Employers Cooperation & Education Trust (LECET), added effective May 1, 2016.  
3. (a) In the event that a National Health Insurance Program is enacted, the Employer contribution to the current  
Health and Welfare Plan shall be applied to any cost incurred by the Employer and/or the Employees covered  
hereunder in connection with such National Health Plan.  
(b) If the current Employer contribution is in excess of the cost of such National Health Plan, then at the discretion  
of the Employees covered hereunder, the difference shall become a contribution to either a supplemental health and  
welfare insurance plan and/or one of the existing Pension Plans.  
4, There shall be no requirement that Employees sent to work outside the scope of this Agreement be paid fringes,  
nor shall the Employer be required to duplicate fringe contibutions. The Employer shall maintain adequate records  
from which the Funds may determine whether Employees worked outside the scope of the Agreement.  
5. (a) An Employer shall be considered “delinquent” for a particular work month if its required report and payment  
for that month are not postmarked on or before the 15" day of the following month (the “due date”), irrespective of  
whether such delinquency is willful or otherwise.  
(b) If an Employer becomes delinquent for a particular work month (as provided in (a) above), the Employer shall  
also pay, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to 10% of the payment otherwise due for such  
work month, it being understood and acknowledged by the parties that actual damages are extremely difficult or  
impossible to ascertain and that the amount so fixed as liquidated damages is reasonable.  
(c) An Employer is also required to pay interest on all delinquent fringe benefit contributions at the rate prescribed  
by the Trustees in the Trust Agreements as may be amended from time to time.  
(d) If an Employer becomes delinquent for a particular work month (as provided in (a) above), as to any or all of the  
Trust Funds, or should the Trust Funds reasonably deem itself insecure in the payment or collection of fringe benefit  
payments by reason of the past delinquencies, insolvency, insufficient capitalization, and/or lack of  
assets subject to attachment within the State in which work is performed, then the Fund Administrator, upon  
submission of an affidavit of the Fund Administrator to Employer attesting to same, shall have the to compel  
the Employer to post a cash or fringe benefits surety bond (in a form acceptable to the Fund Administrator) in the  
face amount of the greater of $20,000 or 125% of the total fringe benefit payments reasonably estimated to come  
due within the six (6) months following the date of Fund Administrator's affidavit. This bond may be required  
whether or not a delinquency exists at the time and may be required in addition to a bond posted for a prior  
delinquency.  
The Union shall refuse to supply workers and shall prohibit Employees covered by this Agreement from working for  
any such delinquent Employer who fails or refuses to provide or maintain such a bond required under this Article.  
(e) Illustration of clauses (a), (b), (c), and (d): If an Employer's report and payment for fringe benefit  
for the January work month have not been postmarked before February 16, such Employer becomes delinquent at  
that point and must pay the full amount due, plus 10% of the delinquent amount, plus interest. If the report and the  
full payment for January (including the 10% liquidated damages amount and interest) are not postmarked before  
March 16, the Fund Administrator may submit an affidavit to the Employer and the Employer must then post a bond  
in the amount of $20,000 or 125% of the estimated amount whichever is greater, in addition to reporting and paying  
the full amount due.  
(f) The delinquent Employer shall also be required to pay all costs of collection actually incurred by the Trust Funds,  
including all attomey fees, service fees, filing fees, court reporter fees, and all other fees, costs and disbursements  
incurred by or on behalf of the Trust Funds in collecting the amount due. Trustees at their discretion may reimburse  
(from the Fund) the Union for picketing and bannering expense actually incurred by the Union in collecting amounts  
due the Trust Funds, which expenses shall be deemed to be costs of collection incurred on behalf of the Trust Funds.  
(g) Each Employer who is required to make payments to the Trust Funds shall promptly fumish to the Trustees, or  
the Union, or their authorized agents, on demand, a complete set of all relevant employment and payroll records,  
including but not limited to federal forms W2 and W3, federal quarterly 941 forms, federal forms 1099 and 1096,  
Minnesota Unemployment Quarterly Reports (MUTAs or MN UCs) or such similar state required quarterly reports,  
time cards, payroll and check registers. This includes any other relevant information that may be required in  
comnection with the administration of the Trust Funds. The Trustees, the Union, or their authorized agents may  
examine such records whenever such examination is deemed necessary by the Trustees, the Union or their  
authonzed agents in connection with the proper administration of the Trust Funds.  
If any Employer fails or refuses to furnish its payroll records to the Trustees, the Union or their authorized agents  
upon demand or refuses to afford the Trustees, the Union or their authorized agents reasonable opportunity to  
examine the same in accordance with standard auditing procedures, the Trustees or the Union may enforce such  
nights by legal action, in which event all attomey fees, service fees, filing fees, court reporter fees and other legal  
costs and disbursements, as well as the auditing fees and costs incurred in conducting such audit, shall be paid by  
such Employer on direction by the Trustees. The Union shall also have the right to take economic action to enforce  
such rights on behalf of the Union and the Trustees and the Trust Funds shall reimburse the Union for picketing and  
bannering expenses actually incurred in enforcing such rights.  
Fach Employer bound to this Agreement is obligated to maintain adequate records to identify the type of work being  
performed by its Employees to allow the Funds to determine whether the Employer is accurately reporting hours to  
the Funds. If the Employer fails to maintain satisfactory records from which the type of work being performed by  
an individual may reasonably be determined, the Employer will be held liable for all of the hours worked by that  
individual for whom the Employer is unable to produce satisfactory records verifying the type of work being  
perfommed by that individual.  
(h) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11, Settlement of Disputes, the failure, refusal or neglect of an  
Employer to report and to pay sums due the Trust Funds or otherwise to comply with the terms and provisions of  
this Article shall not be subject to arbitration. The Trustees or the Funds may proceed with legal action without  
pursuing or participating in any dispute resolution process contained in this Agreement.  
(i) The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the provisions of this Agreement establishing rates of pay,  
wages, all hours of employment and other terms and conditions of employment, including fringe benefits, apply to  
Employees employed in job classifications within the jurisdiction of the Union from the first date of employment,  
### REGARDLESS OF WHETHER OR NOT SUCH EMPLOY EES ARE MEMBERS OF THE UNION.  
(j) No Agreement will be signed with any Employer who is delinquent with the submission of payment for fringe  
benefit contributions, past or present, unless or until fully paid. An Employer with a history of delinquencies may  
be required to post a fringe benefit bond in the manner and amounts as provided for in this Article, prior to the  
execution of a new Agreement. Any and all fringe contribution rates shall be open for adjustment on any anniversary  
date upon thirty (30) days written notice to the Employers. Such adjustments shall operate to adjust wages in like  
amount.  
6. Any and all fringe contnibution rates shall be open for adjustment on any anniversary date upon thirty (30) days  
notice to the AGC. Such adjustments shall operate to adjust wages in like amount.  
### ARTICLE 22  
### Training  
A. The parties to this Agreement recognize that OSHA requires that workers are trained in safety matters in order to  
be employed on work sites and Employers may require such training to be a condition of employment. It is also  
recognized that the cost of providing this training is the responsibility of the Laborers Training Center of Minnesota  
and North Dakota, and/or the Employer, but is also for the benefit of the Employee. Therefore, time spent in training  
will not be compensable.  
B. All new foremen must take OHSA 10-hour and “foreman preparedness” class within the first six (6) months of  
working as a foreman. It is offered at no cost through the Laborers’ Training Center of Minnesota and North Dakota.  
### ARTICLE 23  
### Savings C lause  
This Agreement is intended to be in confonnity with all applicable and valid State and Federal laws, rules and  
regulations. Any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the terms of any such laws and regulations  
Shall cause the provisions of the Agreement so in conflict to be superseded or annulled, but shall not supersede or  
annul the terms and provisions of this Agreement which are not so in conflict.  
### ARTICLE 24  
### Entire Understanding  
This Agreement covers the entire understanding and past jurisdictional practices between the parties hereto. Nothing  
which is not contained herein will be of any force or effect upon any party hereto. This Article shall not apply to the  
Letter of Understanding relating to Picket Line Clause of July 2, 1975.  
### ARTICLE 25  
### Duration  
A. All terms of this Agreement shall take effect May 1, 2016.  
B. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect through April 30, 2019.  
C. Any party has the night to terminate or amend this Agreement by giving notice to the other party sixty (60) days  
before the expiration of this Agreement. Failure to give such notice shall cause this Agreement to be renewed  
automatically for a further period of twelve (12) months.  
D. In the event such written notice is given and a new Agreement is not signed before the expiration date of this  
Agreement, then this Agreement shall continue in force until a new Agreement is signed, negotiations are fonrally  
broken off, or until a strike or lockout occurs.  
### SCHEDULE I  
List of  
### SCHEDULE 2  
Others Doing Laborers W ork  
If weather conditions cause a project to be partially shut down, the Employer shall not remove Laborers from their  
work and send them home for the day and continue performing Laborers work with another trade.  
If occurs, the Employee shall receive equal compensatory pay.  
### SCHEDULE 3  
Call in Pay  
Employees shall receive full-time pay for all time spent in the service of the Employers. There shall be no split  
shifts. When an Employee is called to work, he shall receive two hours pay if not put to work. If he is called to work  
and commences work, he shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay; these provisions, however, not to be  
effective when work is unable to proceed because (1) railroads or common camiers fail to make deliveries as  
scheduled; (2) the Engineer refuses to pennit work; and (3) Acts of God including weather conditions, will not  
pennit work.  
### SCHEDULE 4  
Travel and Subsistence Allowance  
Heavy Industrial C onstruction  
When money is paid an Employee under this Agreement on account of travel expenses, or the cost of other facilities,  
Said payment is intended to reimburse the Employee for all or part of the expenses actually incurred by him in the  
furtherance of the Employers’ interests. Such payment shall not be included as part of the wages paid to the  
Employee and shall be given on a separate check.  
### SCHEDULE 5  
Notice  
The Employer shall communicate with the Union prior to starting projects of five hundred thousand dollars  
($500,000.00) or more in any district.  
### SCHEDULE 6  
J ob Stewards  
The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to designate Job Stewards to handle such Union business as may  
from time to time be delegated to them to see that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are being complied  
with. The Employers also agree that the Job Steward shall be kept on the job until completion of the work covered  
by this Agreement and are not to be laid off before such time without a hearing before a committee composed of a  
representative of the involved Employer and an officer of the Union, which hearing shall be held not later than the  
end of the next business day following the giving of notice of layoff by the involved Employer to the involved Job  
Steward.  
The Employer agrees that on any job where there are Employees covered by this Agreement employed, the Steward  
Shall be kept on the job, if the crew is reduced due to weather or working conditions and/or if any Employees  
covered by this Agreement are kept on the job. The Steward, however, will not be an additional man and shall be  
part of the working crew.  
### SCHEDULE 7  
Hours, Shifts, Overtime, Sundays and Holidays  
A. Where a single shift is worked, eight (8) hours of continuous employment except for break periods shall  
constitute a day’s work beginning on Monday and through Friday of each week. 8:00 am. to 4:00 p.m. (see  
Schedule 8A and B below) shall constitute a regular day shift; except as mutually agreed between the Employer and  
the Union the hours may be adjusted to promote efficiency on the job.  
All Employees who work other than the day shift shall receive eight (8) hours pay for seven (7) hours work if such  
shifts continue for four (4) consecutive working nights or more. If such night shifts do not so continue, all time  
worked hereon shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the Employees regular straight time  
hourly rate of pay.  
All time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day period or on Saturday, shall be paid at the rate of one  
and one-half (1'/2) times the Employees regular straight time hourly rate of pay.  
Double time shall be paid for all work performed on Sunday and the following holidays or days celebrated as such:  
New Y ear’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.  
It shall be understood that there shall be no pyramiding of overtime and Employees shall not be paid both daily and  
10  
weekly overtime.  
B. When it is mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Employer, the Employer may schedule four (4) 10-hour  
days, Monday through ‘Thursday. The four (4) 10-hour day schedule shall constitute the forty (40) hour week at  
Straight time. In the event of an Act of God and any one day Monday through Thursday cannot be worked, then  
Friday can be used as the fourth day to work as a ten (10) hour day at eight (8) hours straight time and two (2) hours  
overtime.  
### SCHEDULE 8  
Breaks  
A. Employees shall be entitled to a meal break of thirty (30) consecutive minutes in each regular work day. If an  
Employee is required to work five (5) consecutive hours without a meal break, he shall be compensated for the thirty  
(30) minutes so worked at the applicable rate of pay. This is not to be construed to deny the Employee time to eat his  
meal.  
B. There shall be one break in the forenoon and one break in the aftemoon. The break shall not exceed ten (10)  
minutes from the time work stops until work resumes. The break shall be taken in close proximity to the Employee's  
work station. On shift work this schedule shall apply.  
### SCHEDULE 9  
Watchpersons  
Watchpersons shall receive the above rate per hour on the basis of a forty (40) hour week, with time and one-half  
(1) for overtime after forty (40) hours, but not for daily overtime over eight (8) hours, nor for Saturday, Sunday,  
and holiday time, unless such hours are worked beyond forty (40) hours. Watchpersons shall not be hired for less  
than eight (8) hours in any one day. Where only one Watchperson is employed the minimum work week shall be  
forty (40) hours. When two or more Watchpersons are employed, overtime shall be divided equally. Watchpersons  
Shall not be required to tend Salamanders or perform any manual labor; provided however, that the foregoing  
classification of Watchperson shall be eliminated from the Agreement in the event that it should be determined by  
the National Labor Relations Board that Watchpersons qualify as Guards within the meaning of Labor-Management  
Relations Act of 1947.  
### SCHEDULE 10  
Tending of Salamanders  
When tending of a salamander is required at night, two Laborers for each shift shall be hired at straight time with a  
maximum week of forty (40) hours.  
### SCHEDULE 11  
Work in Two Wage Classifications  
Employees working in a classification which provides for a rate in excess of the Construction Craft Laborer rate  
Shall be paid four (4) hours at the higher rate if they perform work in the higher classification for two (2) to four (4)  
hours. They shall be paid eight (8) hours at the higher rate if they perform work in the higher rate classification for  
four (4) hours. If they perform work in the higher rate classification for two (2) hours or less or if the work is shut  
down, they shall be paid the higher rate for hours actually worked in the higher classification.  
### SCHEDULE 12  
Air Pressure on C aisson W ork  
In the event air pressure is needed on caisson work, the rate agreed to in the Highway and Heavy Agreement shall be  
paid.  
11  
### SCHEDULE 13  
Labor Foreman  
On all construction jobs where eight (8) or more Employees are employed, there shall be a Laborer Foreman who  
Shall receive wages as set forth herein.  
### SCHEDULE 14  
  
The following job titles are for rate classification purposes and do not constitute an exhaustive list of work  
performed by Laborers. Any question relative to the classification of a worker will be settled by the Employer and  
the Union. Wage rate classification in the contract establishes only a rate for Employees hired by Management and  
in. no way relates to manning projects.  
Classification 1  
Construction Craft Laborer  
Carpenter Tender - Including but not limited to loading, unloading, stockpiling, staging, removal and disposal of  
matenals and equipment (excluding unwrapped or unpackaged custom fabrications), and clean-up related to  
tending carpenters.  
Chain Saw Operator  
Clean-Up - all types, including Job Site Clean Up (excluding janitorial work)  
Concrete Saw, Drill Operator  
Concrete Vibrator  
Concrete Laborer  
Confined Space Watch  
Damp Proofer below grade  
Demolition and wrecking including remodeling  
Dnill Runner Helper  
Dump person - dirt, asphalt, concrete, cement  
Firewatch  
Flagperson/Traffic Control with certification  
Heater Tender - all types  
Hot Tar caulker - corker  
Hydro Blast or Waterblaster  
Joist Handlers  
Lead Abatement  
Mason Tender $1.25 above Classification 1 rate - including but not limited to tending and maintaining  
automated and robotic brick and block laying machinery  
Handlers - all types Power Buggy  
Pipe Handler  
Pneumatic and Electric Tools, Jackhammer, Paving Buster, Chipping Hammer, Tamper Operator, etc  
Rebar Laborer  
Remote Control Tamper  
Signal Person  
Snow Blower Operator  
Swing Stage line Scaffold (not including “patent” scaffolding)  
Tool Crib Checker  
Welder/Torchperson - gas, electric, thermal, or similar device  
Classification 2  
Caisson Work  
Dniller for blasting purposes  
Dynamite Blasters or substitute products  
Tovex TR, water, gas, gel, bristar, silent dynamite, etc  
Mortar Mixer - cement or any other substitute material or composition  
Mounted Wall Saw Operator  
Nozzle Operator - gunite, cement, sandblasting, Micro Abrasive Blasting  
12  
Pipelayer  
Pipe Rehab Technician - including cleaning, cutting, cameraing, etc  
Plaster  
Refractory Worker  
Remote Control Demo Machine and related accessories (electric/hydraulic)  
Sheeting Setter and Drivers, heavy building excavation  
Underground work - open ditch or excavation 8’ below grade  
Underpinning  
Classification 3  
Watchperson  
### SCHEDULE 15  
Apprenticeship  
Hourly Rate Under Collective  
Bargaining Agreement Covered Hours of Employment  
Level 1 80% Entry in the Apprenticeship Program to completion of 1,500 covered work  
hours and 100 hours of Related Training;  
Level 2 87% Upon achieving 1,501 covered work hours and 101 hours of Related  
Training;  
Level 3 95% Upon achieving 3,001 covered work hours and 201 hours of Related  
‘Training.  
Apprentice status ends and 100% of the applicable hourly rate under the goveming Collective Bargaining  
Agreement is paid upon achievement of 4,001 covered work hours and 288 Related Training hours.  
All fringe benefit contributions for Apprentices shall be the same as for a Joumey Laborer. An Employer may  
unilaterally pay wages to an Apprentice that are greater than the preceding minimum amounts.  
### SCHEDULE 16  
Apprenticeship Training  
A. The Employer agrees that before hiring an Apprentice, the Employer will contact the Apprenticeship Office to  
verify that the Apprentice is current with his or her Apprenticeship Training Requirements.  
B. The Employer agrees to provide unpaid time off to Apprentices in order for them to complete their  
Apprenticeship Training Requirements. The Apprentice will request the unpaid time off at the time he or she  
registers for a course. The Employer may refuse to provide the time off due to work considerations, however will  
make every effort to ensure that Apprentices stay current with their Training Requirements.  
C. If an Apprentice is not current with his or her Apprenticeship Training Requirements, and Mandatory Training is  
scheduled by the Apprenticeship Office, the Employer will be notified thirty (30) days in advance of scheduled  
Mandatory Training, and shall grant unpaid time off. If the Employer provides notice to the Apprenticeship Office  
by the Wednesday before the scheduled Mandatory Training, the Employer may refuse to release an Employee due  
to work considerations. The Employer may refuse to provide unpaid time off for Mandatory Training for an  
Apprentice twice during a contract year, and if the Apprentice has been employed by the Contractor for four (4)  
months or more, the Employer will then be required to provide paid time off for the Apprentice to attend Mandatory  
Training Courses until such time as the Apprentice is current with his or her Apprenticeship Training Requirements.  
### SCHEDULE 17  
Wage Rates  
The Employer agrees to pay the wage rates including benefits as listed herein for all Employees covered under this  
Agreement from the first day of employment, regardless of whether or not such Employees are members of the  
Union, including time spent traveling between work sites and time driving company owned trucks or equipment  
when under the direction and supervision of the Employer, and not including commuting to and from home.  
13  
Olmsted and Wabasha C ounties, and Goodhue C ounty south of CSAH 9, including the city limits of Lake C ity  
Effective May 1, 2016 - Total Increase $1.53 per hour  
### Clas Base Vac H&W Pen TRAP LECEI CPP FCF TOTAL CAF  
1 2390 200 765 32 08 10 02 4067 #02  
2 2460 200 765 32 08 10 02  
3 22.02 200 765 6,60 32 08 10 02 «3879  
Mason Tender $1.25 above Classification 1 rate . .  
### Clas Base Vac H&W Pen ‘TRAP CPI’ FCF TOTAL CAF  
   
   
   
   
1 25.15 2.00 7.65 6.60 32 .08 10 02 41.92 02  
Apprentice wage rates at 80% of Class 1:  
### EXAMPLE: | |  
### Class Base Vac’ H&w Pen LECET CPI FCF TOTAL CAF  
1 19,12 2.00 7.65 6.60 32 .08 10 02 35.89 02  
Foreman $1.75 above classification employed in.  
General Foreman $2.25 per hour over Foreman rate.  
‘Vacation is a taxable wage and shall be paid for all hours worked and at one and one-half (114) times when  
overtime is worked and at two (2) times on Sundays and Holidays.  
Administrators Fund is voluntary and not included in the total package.  
°All Fringe Benefits, including Construction Partnership Inc. (CPI) contribution, are sent to Zenith Administrators,  
P.O. Box 124, Minneapolis, MN 55440-0124.  
“Fair Contracting Foundation (see Schedule 18)  
May 1, 2016 - Total Increase of $1.82 per hour, fringe benefit allocations TBD  
May 1, 2017 - Total Increase of $1.88 per hour, fringe benefit allocations TBD  
Dodge, Faribault, Fillmore, Freeborn, Houston, Le Sueur, Mower, Steele, Rice, Waseca and Winona C ounties  
Effective May 1, 2016 - Total Increase $1.53 per hour  
### Clas Base Vac H&W Pen TRAP LECFT FCF TOTAL CAP  
1 245 200 765 6,60 32 08 02  
2 2315 200 765 £4660 232 08 02 3082 @©.02  
3 20.62 200 765 £4660 232 08 02 3729  
Mason Tenders $1.25 above Classification 1 rate . .  
### Clas Base Vac H&W Pen TRAP LECET FCF TOTAL CAF  
   
   
   
   
1 23.70 2.00 7.65 6.60 32 .08 02 40.37 02  
Apprentice wages rates at 80% of Class 1:  
### EXAMPLE: .  
### Class Base Vac H&W Pen TRAP LECET FCF TOTAL CAF  
1 17.96 2.00 7.65 6.60 32 .08 02 34.63 02  
Foreman $1.75 above classification employed in.  
General Foreman $2.25 per hour over Foreman rate (appointed at Employers discretion).  
‘Vacation is a taxable wage and shall be paid for all hours worked and at one and one-half (11/4) times when  
overtime is worked and at two (2) times on Sundays and Holidays.  
“Contract Administrators Fund is voluntary and not included in the total package.  
Contracting Foundation (see Schedule 18)  
May 1, 2016 - Total Increase of $1.82 per hour, fringe benefit allocations TBD  
May 1, 2017 - Total Increase of $1.88 per hour, fringe benefit allocations TBD  
14  
All Fringe Benefits to be sent to Zenith American Solutions, P.O. Box 124, Minneapolis, MN 55440-0124.  
### SCHEDULE 18  
Fair C ontracting Foundation Labor-M anagement C ooperative C ommittee  
Effective May 1, 2013 the parties agree to participate in and fund the Fair Contracting Foundation of Minnesota  
(FCF) through a Labor-Management Cooperation Committee Trust Fund, pursuant to Sec. 6(b) of the Labor  
Management Cooperation Act of 1978, 29 U.S.C. §175a and Sec. 302(c)(9) of the Labor Management Relations  
Act, as amended.  
The parties agree that the terms and conditions of this labor agreement help establish industry standards for safety,  
training, workforce availability, dependable benefits and reasonable wages. Unlawful conduct on construction  
projects jeopardizes these negotiated terms, interferes with contractors’ lawful competition, erodes industry  
standards and conflicts with society’ s interests at large. Therefore, the FCF is established as a LMCC to monitor  
and enforce compliance with federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. FCF’s further purpose is to study  
and solutions to problems that impede fair competition and stunt economic development in the industry.  
The Employer agrees to contribute every month, not later than the 15th day of the following month, hereinafter  
called the “due date,” such sums for FCF as is designated in the wage schedule of this Agreement for each hour  
worked by all Employees covered by this Agreement. The FCF contributions are to be paid on one check along with  
the other fringe benefit contributions and submitted to the agent of the Funds as designated by the Trustees.  
The FCF shall function in accordance with a'Trust Fund established solely and exclusively for the FCF by a separate  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust for the Fair Contracting Foundation of Minnesota, arty amendments thereto, and  
any of its goveming documents. The terms of the FCF Agreement and Declaration of Trust and all other goveming  
documents are fully incorporated into this Article by reference.  
This provision will expire on April 30, 2019.  
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed.  
### ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS of Minnesota  
LABORERS DISTRICT COUNCIL of Minnesota & North Dakota  
### LABORERS UNION, LOCAL 405  
15