ry  
| a |  
  
rt FiriFrt Ft 6rd oOo A  
ry  
   
KE 4192  
### AEROSPACE _  
### AGREEMENT  
Between  
The Aerospace Corporation  
and the  
Aerospace Professional Staff Association  
August 1, 2007 to August 1, 2008  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### ARTICLE NO. TITLE PAGE  
PREAMBLE ccc eee ene tenes 6  
### I RECOGNITION 6  
1] RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT 20 eee teens 7  
Ill UNION SECURITY ccc eens 8  
### IV APSA COMMUNICATIONS 000 9  
Vv APSA LEAVES OF eee eee een ene 1]  
### VI MERIT EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS eee 1]  
V1 NON-DISCRIMINATION ee eee eee eee 17  
VI EMPLOYEE BENEFITS. 000 cee teens 17  
IX COMPENSATION 2.00... ee 20  
### X EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL FILES eee eee ree eee 20  
XI CORPORATE DOCUMENTATION cece eee tenet eens 21  
XII STAFF DEVELOPMENT 0.0. ccc cee eee eee eens 2]  
### TELECOMMUTING. >|  
### XIV NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS ccc eee eee  
### XV DISPUTES RESOLUTION 0 ce eee eens a2  
### XVI GENERAL PROVISIONS 000: eee eens 26  
XVII DURATION 20000 etn eee 29  
### ADDENDUM | -CONFIDENTIALITY teens dl  
### APPENDIX A DUES DEDUCTION - AUTHORIZATION AND A-l  
### APPENDIX B  NONSUPERVISORY MTS. eee eee B-1  
1. Career Paths B-!  
2. MTS Job Descriptions eee B-]  
3. MTS Compensation ee eens B-5  
4. MTS Pay Plan Structure eee B-§  
### APPENDIX C WORK ENVIRONMENT cece eee teens  
1. Performance Management cece eee eee C-1  
2. Corrective Action C-3  
3. Alternate Workweek Program eee eee C-9  
4. Extended Work Week ees C-10  
5. Hiring, Promotion, Transfers, and C-11  
6. Aerospace Rotation Program ee eee C-13  
### ARTICLE NO.  
### APPENDIX  
### APPENDIX  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont’d)  
### TITLE PAGE  
7. Exempt Employees — Distribution of C-14  
8. Exempt Employees - Part-Time Employment....................-.- C-17  
9. Nonexempt Employees — Distribution of C-19  
10. Nonexempt Employees — Benefits C-21  
11. Business Travel ccc te eee C-22  
12. Meal and Mileage Allowances eee eee C-34  
13. Traffic and Parking 0. ccc ccc te eens C-34  
14. Security Program cece eee eee C-36  
15. Proprietary Information eee eee eee C-42  
16. Electronic Communication Services eee ee eens C-44  
17. Temporary Domestic ener C-44  
18. Permanent Domestic ee eee ee eee C-47  
19. Short-Term International Assignment ee eens C-53  
20. Long-Term International C-56  
21. Federal Government Positions .......... 0... cece eee eee eens C-63  
22. High-Risk Operations cc eee C-64  
D WORK ABSENCES eee eee nee D-1  
1. Holidays cc cee ee ee D-1  
2, Vacation 20... ee cee eee D-2  
3. Sick Leave... eee eee D-3  
4. Jury Duty... D-4  
5. Military Reserve Active Duty eee ees D-4  
6. Other Absences cece ee D-7  
7. Compensatory eee eee D-9  
E EMPLOYEE PROGRAMS ccc cece eee eee E-1  
1. Performance Recognition Payment (PRP) Program ...................  
2. Referral Bonus Program cece cece eee eee tenes E-1  
3. Patent Royalties cc E-2  
4. Corporate Awards Program. eee ee eee E-3  
5. Contimuing Learning cece eee ee E-5  
6. ere E-8  
7. Learning Opportunities E-9  
8. Educational Assistance Programs ee eee E-11  
PAY a cee s ene ee eS EES eS EDs E-15  
4  
i oo fo |  
k  
i  
i  
{ J  
  
### I  
i  
i  
  
f  
{ J  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### AKTICLE NO. TITLE PAGE  
10. Reduction-In-Force (RIF) 0000.0 eee eee E-l6  
lt. Airline Club Memberships .......00 0.0.0 eee eee ee E-19  
12. Retirement Gift Program eee E-20  
### APPENDIX F EMPLOYEE BENEFITS/INSURANCE PLANES ..................... F-}  
1], 2... ee eee eee eee F-]  
2. Medical/Dental/Vision Plan Description.. .. ee eee F-17  
3. Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs). 2... 22... ee eee F-18  
4. Retiree Medical Plan cece eee F-2]  
5. Dental Insurance Plans 0 fe ee F-24  
6. Vision Care Plan Le eee ee eens F-25  
7. Flexible Spending Account (FSA) Plan ........00 2.0.2.2 eee eee F-25  
8. Temporary Disability Plans eee eee cee eee F-26  
9. Paid Family Le eee eee F-26  
10. Long Term Disability (LTD) Plan 2 eee eee F-27  
11. Life Insurance Plans eee eens F-28  
12. Occupational Accident Insurance Plan ee eee F-29  
13. Voluntary Personal Accident Insurance Plan F-29  
14. Aerospace Savings Account eee eee. F-30)  
15. Aerospace Employees’ Plan(AERP) ... 0 20... eee F-34  
16. Voluntary Annuity/Account Program (VA/AP) F-40  
17. After-Tax Savings Option ee eee eee F-41  
18. Work-Life cc ees F-42  
### APPENDIX G  EMPLOYMENT-RELATED PROGRAMS ... G-1  
1. Commuter Services 00 eens G-|  
2. RothIRAS ......... 0. cee ee eee G-2  
3. Traditional IRAs 2.0... eee G-2  
### INDEX OF SUBJECTS SENS BERBER HDR EN BED SS I-]  
### PREAMBLE  
5  
The following is an agreement dated August 1, 2007, between THE AEROSPACE  
CORPORATION (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and the AEROSPACE PROFESSIONAL  
STAFF ASSOCIATION (hereinafter referred to as the “Association” or “APSA”).  
### ARTICLE I  
### 100 RECOGNITION  
10] The Corporation recognizes the Association as the exclusive bargaining agent of its  
employees employed in a unit described as follows:  
102 Included: All regular employees employed by the Corporation as non-supervisory MTS  
Level 1, Level II, and Level III at the following locations: El Segundo, California; Vandenberg Air Force  
Base, California; Onizuka Air Station, California; Sunnyvale, California; Buckley Air Force Base,  
Colorado: Colorado Springs, Colorado; Denver, Colorado; Schriever Aur Force Base, Colorado; Peterson  
Air Force Base, Colorado: Kennedy Space Center, Florida; Cape Canaveral, Florida; Omaha, Nebraska;  
Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska: Houston, Texas; Albuquerque. New Mexico; Kirtland Air Force Base,  
New Mexico; Dayton, Ohio; Chantilly, Virginia; Fairfax, Virginia: Rosslyn, Virginia; Columbia, Maryland;  
Silver Springs, Maryland; and Suitland, Maryland.  
103. Excluded: All other employees, confidential employees, clerical employees, guards, and  
supervisors as defined in the National Labor Relations Act.  
104 The Corporation procures labor services from outside suppliers to augment the normal  
efforts of bargaining unit employees. The Corporation agrees that purchased labor and/or consultants shall  
not be used to replace employees in the bargaining unit.  
105 The Corporation agrees that it shall make the recognition of the Association as the  
exclusive bargaining agent'of its employees in the above described unit a condition of any sale or merger of  
the Corporation to or with a-successor employer. Prior to the sale or merger of the Corporation to or with a  
successor employer the Corporation shall provide the Association with the language in the agreement of  
sale or merger that provides that the successor employer will recognize the Association as the exclusive  
bargaining agent of the employees in the above described unit.  
106 Within ten (10) days from the execution of this Agreement APSA shall certify in wnting to  
the Corporation the names of its representatives accredited to represent the bargaining unit with regard to  
this Agreement. APSA shall also provide an updated list within five (5) days of any change. The total  
number of corporate employees so accredited shall not exceed one (1) representative and/or alternate at  
each location except that there may be five (5) regular representatives and three (3) alternates designated  
with regard to E! Segundo. Alternates shall function only in case of the inability of a regular representative  
to fulfill his or her function hereunder.  
[  
i  
i  
f 3 Cf  
i  
### ARTICLE II  
### 200 RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT  
201 The management of the Corporation and the direction of the work force are vested  
exclusively in the Corporation. These rights of management shall include, but shall not be limited to, the  
right to determine the size of the work force and the number of employees or other persons, if any, assigned  
to any classification or activity, determine the type of work to be performed or to be discontinued, the  
location, methods, schedules of work and means of accomplishing the work, hire, promote, demote,  
transfer, classify, reclassify, assign work to employees outside of their normal classification, and effect  
reductions in force, discharge, suspend or otherwise discipline employees for just cause, determine when  
and whether overtime should be worked, and by whom. and change from time to time any of its policies or  
procedures that affect bargaining unit employees’ pay rates, fringe benefits and/or conditions of work with  
advance notice to the Association and good faith bargaining with APSA in ar attempt to reach an  
agreement. If such bargaining produces an agreement, that agreement shal! be reduced to writing. If no  
agrecment is reached, after impasse the Corporation may implement the charge excer* as expressly limited  
by one or more specific clause or clauses of this Agreement. Changes in volicies or procedures which do  
not fall within the foregoing scope. broadly construed, may be implemented by the Corporation  
advance notice to APSA, provided that, if APSA requests an opportunity to discuss any change which the  
Corporation deemed not subject to advance notice, including any change in the implementation of any  
policy or practice, the Corporation will then discuss the matter promptly.  
202 Any new policy and all changes tc: Polices and/or Practices which involve Recognition of  
Achievements and Striving for Excellence (AE), Human Resoucces (HR), Safety-Injury and Illness  
Prevention Program (SA), Security Program (SE), Standards of Business Conduct (ST), will be coordinated  
with APSA by Labor Relations in advance of implementation pursuant to Paragraph 201. All other new  
policies will be reviewed by Labor Relations and the Office of the General Counsel to determire if they  
affect bargaining unit employees’ pay rates, fringe benefits and/or conditions of work. New policies so  
identified will be coordinated tn advance with APSA pursuant to Paragraph 201. In addition, upon  
execution of the Agreement, the Labor Relations Administrator will meet with designated iepresentatives of  
APSA to identify which other Polictes or Practices affect bargaming unit ermployees’ pay rates, frnge  
benefits and/or conditions of work. Changes in such policies will thereafter be coordinated in advance of  
implementation pursuant to Paragraph 201. The Corporation may specify reasonable time limits for re-  
sponse and for the commencement of discussion. The Corporation shall provide APSA with two (2) paper  
copies of new and/or revised Policies and Practices.  
203 Any new summary plan description and all changes to and/or deletions of Summary Plan  
Descriptions will be coordinated with APSA in advance of implementation. This process is informal.  
allowing APSA to pose questions and make suggestions for changes to the proposed content of these  
documents. There will be no negotiations or written agreement involved in this process. The Corporation  
may specify reasonable time limits for response from APSA.  
~J  
### ARTICLE Il  
### 300 UNION SECURITY  
301 Voluntary Membership and Maintenance of Membership  
302 Each member of the bargaining unit may elect to join APSA but shall not be required to do  
so as a condition of initial or continued employment.  
303 Each member of the bargaining unit who is, or elects to become, a member of APSA on or  
after the thirtieth (30th) day following the effective date of this Agreement shall be required, while a  
member of the bargaining unit, to continue membership in APSA for the duration of this Agreement to the  
extent of tendering the membership dues uniformly required as a condition of retaining membership in  
### APSA.  
304 Any member of the bargaining unit who has elected to become a member of APSA may  
withdraw from membership in APSA by giving notification in writing to APSA and to the Corporation of  
his or her desire to withdraw.  
305 Deduction of Dues  
306 The Corporation shall deduct Association member's dues from the earnings of employees  
who are members of the bargaining unit upon the following conditions and at the time and in the manner  
hereinafter provided.  
307 Deductions will only be made from the earnings of a member of the bargaining unit who  
has executed and delivered to the Corporation a written authorization each time the employee enters or  
re-enters the bargaining unit. The authorization shal! be in the form set forth in Appendix A.  
308 | When Deduction is Taken: Each current week’s Association membership dues as  
authorized will be deducted from an employee’s weekly earnings provided:  
309 An authorization card has been received by Payroll at least four (4) weeks prior to the  
Payroll period for which the authorization is to be effected and has not been revoked, and  
310 The Association has certified in writing to the Corporation the amount of such dues.  
Certification and any changes thereto received during any week will be made effective the week beginning  
four (4) weeks after receipt of such certification for each APSA member who has executed a new  
authorization form in accordance with Paragraph 309 above. Once the Association has certified the amount,  
such certification will remain in effect until changed by the Association.  
311 Remittance and Statements to the Association  
312 Each week, the Corporation shall remit by electronic transfer, to an APSA-designated bank  
account, the amount of dues collected.  
313. The Corporation shall furnish a weekly report (Report 104-50, SAP-ZHRRAWDO,  
Register of APSA Dues Deductions) as of the last day of work to APSA. This report shall be furnished in  
paper copy only, shall be organized by employee badge number, and shall contain the following  
information:  
314 a. The total amount of current dues deducted.  
i  
ytd sf  
i  
i  
E32 t 3  
3  
t J  
C 3  
315 b. Employee name, employee badge number, four-digit cost center code, current  
automatic dues deduction (yes/no), weekly deduction amount, and the year-to-date amount  
for each employee from whose earnings deductions have been made.  
316 Employee name, employee badge number, four-digit cost center code, current  
automatic dues deduction (yes/no), weekly deduction amount, and the year-to-date amount  
for each employee who had authorized such deductions but from whose earnings no  
deductions were made because their paychecks were insufficient to enable the Corporation  
to make appropriate deductions.  
317 Indemnity Agreement  
318 The Association shall indemnify and save the Corporation harmless against any and all  
claims, demands, lawsuits or other forms of liability including costs and attorney fees that may arise out of  
or by reason of actions taken by the Corporation in making payroll deductiors as herein provided or in  
complving with this Article.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### 400 APSA COMMUNICATIONS  
40] At all locations where the Corporation maintains a bulletin board, a bulletin board of a size  
to be mutually agreed upon shall be provided by the Corporation to the extent practicable and feasible to be  
used by APSA. for posting of the following types of notices:  
402 a Notices of APSA meetings.  
403 o. Notices of APSA elections.  
404 c. Notices concerning the appointment of officers and results of APSA elections.  
405 d. Notices of APSA social, educational or recreatioaal affairs.  
406 Space for boxes for the distribution of APSA newsletters and notices shall be provided to  
the extent practical and feasible at all locations where the Corporation maintains an “Orbiter” box,  
407 notices shall be signed by an official of APSA.  
408 APSA shall not distribute or post, nor authorize its members or those that it represents to  
distribute or post, any material anywhere within the work areas of the operations except as  
herein provided. All material, which is posted or distributed as herein provided will be consistent with the  
nrofessional nature of The Aerospace Corporation or with the use of its pr2mises. All material shall be  
submitted to the Labor Relations Administrator in draft form at least two (2) working days prior to posting  
and distribution and in final form immediately prior to posting and distribution. After notice to APSA, the  
Corporation may remove or relocate the APSA bulletin boards for reasons suck as alteration of facilities.  
The Corporation shall have the right to remove any material posted or distributed in violation of this  
Article.  
409 = The Corporation agrees to distribute through its internal mail system, at locations other than  
El Segundo, APSA material, which is mailed in the U.S. mail to members of the bargaining unit at such  
locations, unless space is provided there to APSA in accordance with Paragraph 406 of this Article. APSA  
agrees not to use the mail for distribution of its material to corporate locations at El Segundo. or other  
locations where the provisions of Paragraph 406 supra are operative.  
. 410 The Corporation agrees to provide APSA with a monthly report (Report 021-91, Alphabetic  
Listing of Home Addresses of MTS Non Supervisors) in both paper copy and disk format containing the  
following information regarding each bargaining unit member: employee badge number, employee name,  
four-digit cost center code, position code, and mailing address including zip code.  
Att APSA shall have the right to use two conference rooms in Aerospace’s El Segundo, CA,  
facility per week on a scheduled basis during the noon hour for meetings of its Board of Directors and  
committees. APSA shall further have the right to use one conference room in each of Aerospace’s  
Albuquerque, NM, Chantilly, VA, Colorado Springs. CO, Eastern Range, FL, and Western Range, CA,  
facilities per week on a scheduled basis during the noon hour for meetings of its committees. These  
meetings are not to be publicized and attendance will be limited to fewer than 20.  
412 APSA shall have the right to use one conference room in Aerospace’s El Segundo, CA,  
facility per calendar quarter during the noon hour for general meetings not to exceed 250 bargaining unit  
members. APSA shall further have the right to use one conference room in each of Aerospace’s Chantilly,  
VA, Colorado Springs, CO, Eastern Range, FL, and Western Range, CA, facilities per calendar quarter  
during the noon hour for general meetings not to exceed 35 bargaining unit members, provided that on-site  
management shall have the right to reschedule utilization of the room with advance notice to APSA no later  
than 4 PM on the workday preceding the scheduled meeting.  
413 APSA shall have the right to use one conference room twice a year on a weekend during  
the day for training purposes. These meetings are not to be publicized and attendance will be limited to  
under 250. Any attendance by non-employees shall be coordinated in advance with Security.  
414 The Corpotation will provide employees newly hired into the bargaining unit a copy of the  
Agreement and one document (i.e., new hire greeting) supplied by APSA. The Corporation will include in  
its new hire orientation a chart, which states:  
“The Aerospace Corporation has a bargaining agreement with APSA covering Members of the  
Technical Staff in non-supervisory positions at Levels], II, and III except for confidential  
employees. All such MTS are represented by APSA in negotiations with the Corporation whether  
or not they are dues paying members. It is up to each such MTS to decide whether he or she wishes  
to join APSA.”  
415 The Corporation shall provide APSA with a weekly report containing a list of the  
employees newly hired into the bargaining unit during that week by name, badge number, 4-digit cost  
center code, position code and work location, with the list organized by work location.  
416 —_ The Corporation agrees to include in the electronic publication pursuant to Paragraph 1614  
a notice of APSA’s quarterly membership meetings to run for a two (2) week period prior to the individual  
meetings. Such notices shall set forth only the time, place, date and agenda for the meetings and shall be  
consistent with the professional nature of the Corporation. These notices shall be submitted to the Labor  
Relations Administrator for approval and forwarding to the “Happenings” coordination office at least five  
(5) working days prior to the publication deadline. The Labor Relations Administrator shall notify APSA of  
any disapproval of its submittal at least two (2) working days prior to the publication deadline and shall  
meet with APSA in a good faith attempt to resolve the issues.  
10  
it J  
ae |  
t 2  
a  
f  
1  
417 The Corporation agrees to continue providing a public voice-mai! address on the  
voice-mail system for APSA’s utilization in communicating with members of the bargaining  
unit.  
418 The Corporaiion agrees to continue providing for APSA‘s advertisement in the classified  
section of the ‘c!2phone directory.  
### ARTICLE V  
### 500 APSA LEAVES OF ABSENCE  
501 Requests for leaves of absence for Association business matters will be treated on the same  
basis as all other requests for umpaid personal leaves ot absence except that, upon a written request from  
APSA, approval of a maximum of one (1) week of such leave shall be granted unless extraordirary  
circumstances prevent it.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### 600 MERIT EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS  
601 Full-Time and Part-Time Employment  
602 Recording of effort by bargaining unit emplovees is set forth in Appendix C. Work  
Environment, Section 7, Exempt Employees — Distribution of Effort.  
603 Part-time employment for bargaining unit employees ts set forth in Appendix C, Work  
Environment, Section 8, Exeript Employees - Part-Time Employment.  
604 Determination of Performance  
605 Each member of the bargaining shall have his or her performance evaluated and  
documented by supervision at least vearly and updated in the event of transfer. [n the event of significant  
changes tn performance, changes in content of the employee's work, or in the event of promotion. reduction  
in force, or other reason, an additional evaluation may be performed. Any significant improvement or  
decline in an MTS’s performance ratings in comparison with previous years must be explained in Part ii B  
of the Performance Evaluation Form, which contains the supervisor's comments. This explanation should  
specifically identify, where appropriate, any apparent decline or increase in an MTS’s rating because of a  
change in the manner or method of evaluation.  
606 The performance documentation shall include an evaluation cf the bargaming unit member,  
using a list of performance factors and appropriate performance indicators. Where factors other than those  
listed on the review form are also relevant because of the nature of the job, such other factors may also be  
utilized by supervision. Where factors other than the established factors set forth in the Performance  
Evaluation Form are determined by management to be relevant tn evaluating 32 MTS’s performance in a  
particular position, those factors should be identified and discussed with the MTS suffictently in advance to  
fairly advise the employee and subsequently be identitied on the form itself.  
607 Each employee will be informed of his or her evaluation in the course of a personal  
discussion with supervision. The employee will have the opportunity to comment on the evaluation verbally  
and in writing. Any written comments will become part of the evaluation record and a copy of the  
evaluation will be given to the employee.  
608 | Each employee in an organization is ranked according to value. If desired, the employee  
may verbally request to receive in writing marked as “High Sensitivity” and “Aerospace Internal Use Only”  
his/her value ranking and a brief narrative describing its basis. Employee value rankings are reported to the  
individual employee in one (1) of five (5) groups (also known as "bins"), of approximately 1-10, 11-30, 31-  
70, 71-90, and 91-100 percent. In small organizations such as those with less than 10 employees, fewer  
groups may be utilized in reporting value rankings. Specifically, an employee may request to be informed  
where he/she is in the bottom group.  
609 Where an employee’s performance is established as unsatisfactory or has significantly  
declined, that fact shall be stated on the evaluation form and the employee given the opportunity to discuss  
with supervision the reasons for that judgment and the areas where improvement is required.  
610 The performance management process for the MTS is described in Appendix C, Work  
Environment, Section 1, Performance Management Process.  
611 Transfers  
612 All open job positions within the bargaining unit shall be posted or communicated to ail  
Corporate locations unless a specific determination is made to the contrary by the cognizant Level 6 Vice  
President.  
613 The Corporation shall provide APSA with a monthly report (Report 021-116, SAP-  
ZHRRAPSO, APSA Report on the Exempt Active Population) in paper copy only indicating employees who  
have transferred into and out'of the bargaining unit. This report includes bargaining unit employees who  
have entered or terminated employment from, changed status, or transferred within the Corporation. This  
report shall include the following information for each bargaining unit member: employee badge number,  
employee name, four-digit cost center code. pay plan, organization level and status.  
al.  
614 Ali applications for posted positions shall be written and full consideration shall be given to  
all such applications. A member of the bargaining unit may apply for any open position without prejudice to  
his or her current position. In administering the provisions of this paragraph, the Corporation will send a  
letter to job applicants with the following text:  
“Your request for transfer for the above noted personnel requisition has been received and referred  
to the appropriate supervisor.”  
“It is the practice of the Human Resources Division not to notify the Supervisor of an employee  
who is seeking a transfer. It is felt that such notice by an employee to her or his Supervisor is good  
business practice but it is not required.”  
615 =‘ Transfers will be made at the discretion of the Corporation based upon management’s  
assessment of the operational requirements and of the applying employee’s suitability. Unsuccessful  
applicants for posted jobs shall, upon rejection, be informed in writing of the reasons therefore.  
616 No bargaining unit employee shall, except under unusual circumstances, be involuntarily  
reclassified to a position at a lower level as a result of reorganization or otherwise without having been  
given at least forty-five (45) calendar days to seek another position with the Corporation.  
12  
{  
ee ee en ee ee |  
f  
yf FS £2 ft  
}  
f  
i  
{ 2 i  
i  
t 3  
ti 2  
i  
617 The corporation's policy is not to transfer an employee into an organization where the  
employee would be reporting to the same manager/supervisor as a family member or doniestic partner.  
Family members and domestic partners may not be in a supervisory relationship.  
618 The limit of 6 pending transfers can be waived on a case-by-case basis by the Human  
Resources Depaztment.  
619 — The limit of 6 pending transfers is waived for those in displaced status or those notified  
they hcve been selected for a reduction in force.  
620 Reduction in Force (RIF)  
621 Whenever it becomes necesséery to reduce or change the composition of the working force  
because of lack of work, th: imposition of budgetary changes, a veorganization of tasks. changing  
requirements for particular skills or occupations or other reasons, management may select employees for  
reduction in for-e. Ability te nerform the remaining work, performance as an Aerospace employee. and, to  
the extent it bears upon the foregoing, experience gained in years of service at Aerospace and  
shall be considered by Management in selecting employees for RIF. All members of the bargaining unit  
shall be evaluated on a non-discriminatory basis. It is the intent of the Corporation to select employees for  
RIF trom as broad a base as is suitable under the circumstances; however. the provisions of this Article do  
not require that al! reductions are Corporate-wide in scope nor restrict. the Corporation’s nght to transfer  
employees or to offer transfers and/or reclassifications to emplovees affected by reduction in force. In cases  
of RIF, the Corporation agrees to expedite its review of applications for transfer in those situations where  
the Corporation believes transfers may be warranted.  
622 Employees who are eligible to enter retirement from active employment and who have been  
selected for termination of employment as part of a RIF shall not be required to forego s2verance pay as a  
condition to ins oking retirement status.  
623 In the event of a RIF, access of RIF’s ees to Aerospace facilities shall not he limited beyoad  
normal controls for regular employees between 7:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Morday through Friday (except  
holidays). Exceptions may be made where program security or individual circumstarces warrant.  
624 Rehire  
625 The Corporation shall establish a roster consisting of the names of those employees whose  
employment has been terminated under the provisicns of Paragraph 62! of this Agreement. At the  
termination interview, employees shall be informed of the rehire policy as specified in  
Paragraph 650 of this Agreement. At this time, the Corporation shall ask employees if they wish to have  
their name on the rester. Only employees, who respond “Yes”, will have the:r names included on the roster.  
The Corporation shell request resumes from all employees who have responded “Yes.” The collected  
resumes shall be included with the roster. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to provide the  
Corporation with a resume. For a period of one (1) year following termination of employment, the  
Corporation shall send copies of the current MTS position vacancies to each persen on said roster. The  
mailings shall be concurrent with distribution within the Corporation of each publication of these postings.  
The Corporatior. shall implement procedures to ensur2 that persons on said roster who notity the  
Corporation in writing of their interest and suitability shall be considered along with other applicants for  
any position to be filled by the Corporation by outside hiring. No outside applicait shall be hired for a  
position as to which there is a person on szid roster who has notified the Corperation of his or her interest  
and suitability unless a written explaration has beer approved by the level 4 manager. It shall be the  
responsibility of persons on said roster to keep the Corporation informed of his or her address. Persons shall  
remain on said roster for a period of one (1) year, or until such person is rehired, declines an offer of rehire,  
or asks to have his or her name removed from the roster.  
626 Notification in the Event of a Reduction in Force  
627 To the Individual  
628 An employee designated to be terminated through RIF shall be given written notice in  
accordance with Paragraph 633.  
629 ToAPSA  
630 The Corporation agrees, to the extent practicable, to notify APSA in writing at least three  
(3) weeks prior to the notification of any individual of their inclusion in a RIF when the RIF is anticipated  
to involve five (5) or more members of the bargaining unit. There shall be no obligation to give APSA  
advance notice of the names of the individuals whose inclusion in the RIF is anticipated or to discuss with  
APSA the names of the individuals under review for possible inclusion in the RIF. In any RIF, APSA shall  
be notified in writing of the name of each member of the bargaining unit to be included in the RIF concur-  
rently with such notice to the individual. A letter of notification shall inform the individual that he/she may  
have an APSA representative present at the notification interview. Any individual to be included in the RIF  
may request the presence of an APSA representative at the notification interview.  
631 APSA agrees that the information, which it receives from the Corporation in advance of  
any anticipated RIF, shall be treated by it as confidential.  
632 Options in Event of RIF  
633 Any member of the bargaining unit whose employment is being terminated due to a RIF  
shall recerve four (4) week’s written notice of his or her termination of employment. Any bargaining unit  
member designated for RIF shall have the option of receiving up to four (4) weeks’ pay in lieu of notice.  
Bargaining unit members shall receive at least one (1) week's written notice plus three (3) weeks’ pay or a  
combination of written notice and pay in lieu of notice equaling four (4) weeks’ salary. If, in the opinion of  
the cognizant Level 6 Vice President,. operational factors should require immediate termination the  
bargaining unit member shall receive four (4) weeks’ pay in lieu of notice.  
634 The Corporation shall provide for bargaining unit members who have been designated for  
RIF and who are otherwise eligible for retirement to be able to enter retirement from active employment.  
635 Corrective Action Process  
636 The Corporation has a corrective action process for managing unsatisfactory performance  
and/or unacceptable conduct by bargaining unit members. If requested by the member, an APSA  
representative shall be allowed to be present to represent the bargaining unit member in any Step 2 or 3  
corrective action meeting. With or without the participation of APSA, a bargaining unit member shall be  
provided an opportunity to respond to the identified problem(s) in any corrective action meeting. A  
description of the corrective action process is provided in Appendix C, Work Environment, Section 2,  
Corrective Action.  
637 Termination for Cause  
638 The Corporation has the right to terminate for cause. The Corporation shall notify APSA  
promptly, but in any event within two (2) working days, of any termination for cause. Any employee in the  
a  
in  
i 2 £3  
{ 2  
|  
Ee tb £2 CB CD FEA CS  
cw & 3  
Les tJ C2  
process of being terminated for cause may request the presence of an APSA representative at the  
termination interview.  
639 Termination for cause shall include but not be limited to terminations for unsatisfactory  
performance. An employee terminated for “unsatisfactory performance” shall be given a prior written  
Corrective Action concerning his performance and a reasonable time to correct the deficiency. All such  
written Corrective Actions shall be reviewed by the Human Resources Division to consider whether  
remedial] action or 4 remedial program is appropriate and has been recommended.  
640 Termination for cause shall also include a very limited category of discretionary  
terminations upon the authority of the President or cognizant Senior Vice President of the Corporation. Any  
such discretionary termination shall not be subject to gnevance.  
641 Displaced Status  
642 Displaced status eccurs when an employee's job has been eliminated as a result of  
reorganization, has been filled during an emplovee's leave of absence? or has becce unsuitable as a result  
of an inability to perform the primary functions of the iob APSA shal! be notified, in writing,  
of ihe name of each member of the bargaining unit to be placed on ¢isplaced status concurrently with such  
notice to the individual.  
643 The goal of placing employees in displaced status is to provide an opportunity for the  
employee to seek a new position or work assignment. Hence, an employee ir cispiaced status would  
normally be assigned work during the displaced period. If an emplovee elects tc seek erapleyment within  
the Corporation he or she may do so for a period of ninety-one (91) days. At any time during the ninety-  
one days an employee may elect to terminate employment and receive notice benefits and severance  
pay. At the end of ninety-one days in displaced status, the employment is subject to immediate  
termination. The terminating employee will receive RIF notice, benefits and severance pay. Extension of  
the ninety-one dav pericd requires approval of the Director, Employee Reletions  
644 If temporary werk assignments are unavailable, the zmployee may go ‘nto no-pay status  
betwen assiguments: however. the employee is not normally subject to mmmediate of  
employment. Should a company-wide RIF occur, arn employee may be subject co involuntary termination  
during the ninety-one day period in displaced status.  
625 Disability Leave - Return to Work  
646 The Corporation assists an employee's return from Disability leave to active employment  
directly or through a rehabilitation program. The goal is to provide a reasonable time for the employee to  
find suitable work if the employee’s position has been filled or eliminated during the leave, or if the  
employee is no longer able to perform that type of work. An employee returning from temporary disability  
leave normally returns to the same organization and position. An emplovee mav be put in displaced status  
if his or her position has been eliminated or filled due to a critical need, or 1f the employee can no Jonger  
perform the primary functions of that position.  
647 An employee on temporary disability leave or Long-Term Disao lity (L.TD) may participate  
in a rehabilitation program that allows the employee, under approved circumstances, to return to work to his  
or her previous position or similar position on a part-time basis. The employee will receive full-time  
regular benefits from the Corporation, as well as pay for hours worked. and where the employee elected  
LTD coverage. proportionally reduced disability benefits from the insurer, provided the insurer approves  
the individual's rehabilitation program.  
15  
648 Termination Pay  
649 Employees who voluntarily terminate employment receive no termination pay. Employees  
terminated involuntarily for reasons other than a reduction in force receive two (2) weeks’ termination pay  
if employed for six (6) months or more, or one (1) week’s pay if employed for less than six (6) months.  
Employees terminated for cause sufficient to render continued employment detrimental to the corporation's  
interests or as a consequence of ongoing corrective action receive neither advance notice nor termination  
pay.  
650 An employee who is terminated in a reduction in force shall receive severance pay in  
accordance with the Corporation’s severance pay policies (see Appendix E, Employee Programs, Section 9,  
Severance Pay). If a person who has been so terminated is rehired, such person shall be rehired as a new  
employee unless the rehire is within a period of one (1) year and the person rehired repays to the  
Corporation the sums he or she has received as pay in lieu of notice and severance pay to the extent such  
pay exceeds the product of the employee’s weekly wage at the time of the reduction multiplied by the  
number of weeks the employee was unemployed. Any sums so returned shall constitute the full extent of  
the severance pay available for such employee in the event of a subsequent reduction except that such  
employee shall thereafter accrue additional weeks of severance pay at the rate of one (1) week of severance  
pay for each year of subsequent employment up to a maximum total of nineteen (19) weeks.  
651 A description of the benefits associated with a reduction in force is provided in Appendix  
E, Employee Programs, Section 10, Reduction-In-Force (RIF) Benefits.  
652 MTS Pay Plan  
653 A description of the MTS salary structure is provided in Section 4 of Appendix B. The  
MTS job descriptions are provided in Section 2 of Appendix B.  
654 A copy of Appendix B, Nonsupervisory MTS, Section 4, MTS Pay Plan Structure, along  
with Practices HR—2-2 and HR-2-3, the Aerospace Professional Career Path booklet, a description of the  
MTS job role characteristics, and the MTS position code designations shall be maintained in the library, as  
well as a covy of the current salary distribution percentile curves for the non-supervisory MTS. A copy of  
the same data shall be maintained by the administrators in all regional facilities for viewing by the MTS.  
Two (2) paper copies of the same material shall be provided to APSA, along with a copy on magnetic media  
of the current salary distribution tables and percentile curves for the non-supervisory MTS.  
16  
a  
€ 2 SE € € F  
4  
f  
}  
  
3  
### ARTICLE VII  
### 700 NON-DISCRIMINATION  
701 Tne parties hereto subscribe to the principles of equal opportunity and inerit employmeni  
and in furtherance thereof agree in accordance with the applicable state and federal laws not to discriminate  
against any employee because of age, race, color, ancestry. national origin, gender or gender identity,  
sexual orientation, creed, religion, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, marital status,  
veteran status, or union activity or lack thereof. Except as provided in Paragraphs 702 through 705, all  
complaints arising under this paragraph shail be processed in accord with Article XV of this Agreement.  
702 As part of their commitment to Equal Employment Opportunity, the Corporation and  
APSA agree that any form of sexual harassment in the workplace is improper. Complaints of sexual  
harassment shall be reported to line management, to the Diversity & Equal Employment Opportunity  
(“D&EEO”) Office and/or to the Office of the General Counsel. and will be processed in accordance with  
Corporate Practice HR-6-4.  
703 Alleged victims and/or harassers involved in sexual narassment Incidents who are members  
of the bargaining unit may scek support and assistance from APSA. Ai APSA representative shall oe  
allowed to be present to represent the bargaining unit member in all meetings, which include the bargaining  
unit nermmber if requested by the memiber. The Corporation shall advise any member of the bargaining unit  
accused of sexual harassment of the member's right to have an APSA representative present whenever the  
member is requested to attend any meeting regarding the alleged sexual harassment.  
704 Once the investigation of an alleged sexual harassment incident has been concluded, the  
Vice President, Office of Human Resources, the General Counsel, and the Director, D&EEO Office  
recommend a course of action to the harasser’s cognizant level 6 vice president if sexual harassmemi is  
found to have occurred. Whether sexual harassment has or has not been found to have occurred, upon  
request the D&ELO Office shall provide a confidential written statement ciscussing the findings of the  
investigation to ihe alleged narasser and/or harassee.  
705 Fither party, within ien (10) workdays of receipt of ine fuidings and resolution, may file a  
Step 3 gnevance in accordance with Paragraph 1513 of this Agreement. A second independent  
investigation may be necessary to resolve any outstanding issues. At the conclusion of the grievance, the  
Peer Review Board issues a final decision. The parties receive the final decision in writing.  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### 800 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  
801 The monetary benefits specified within Article VIII, including specific referenced plans  
with regard to Group Insurance, Retirement and Voluntary Annuity, shall be continued during the term of  
this Agreement for bargaining unit employees, provided, however, that such benefits may be changed upon  
notice to and good faith bargaining in an attempt to reach such an agreement. If such bargaining produces  
an agreement, that agreement shall be reduced to writing. If no agreement is reached. after impasse the  
Company may implement the change. As additional conditions precedent to such benefit changes, two  
further provisions apply, i.e.. any such reduction in benefits shall also be made applicable to supervisory  
MTS and be made for reasonable cause.  
802 The provisions of the following referenced plans, as they exist at the present time, are  
described in the attached Appendices and in the Corporation’s Summary Plan Descriptions. The cost to the  
employee for each of these plans is set forth in Appendix F. Notwithstanding any language in the summary  
plan or other descriptions to the contrary, changes in such plans to the extent that they affect the bargaining  
unit may be made during the term of this agreement only in accordance with provisions of Paragraph 801. If  
any member of the bargaining unit identifies an issue which raises an apparent conflict between the content  
of a summary plan or other description with the terms of a master policy or membership agreement, the  
Corporation and APSA shall meet in a good faith attempt to resolve the apparent conflict.  
Plan  
Group Hospital—Medical Plan  
Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs)  
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)  
Dental Expense Plan  
Prepaid  
Dental Plan  
Vision Care Plan  
Flexible Spending Account (FSA)  
Temporary Disability Insurance  
Long-Term Disability (LTD) Income Benefits Insurance Plan  
Life Insurance Plan  
Occupational Accident Insurance Plan  
Voluntary Personal Accident Insurance Plan  
Severance Pay Plan  
Aerospace Savings Account Plan (ASAP)  
Aerospace Employees’ Retirement Plan (AERP) (Includes a description of the Survivors  
Income  
Benefit)  
Voluntary Annuity/Account Plan (VA/AP)  
Occasional Sick Leave  
Retiree Medical Plan  
803  
The monetary benefits specified by the following Policies and Practices of the Corporation  
shall be continued during the term of this Agreement for bargaining unit employees, subject to change in  
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 801:  
Number Title (Abstract)  
BO-4-2 Commuter Services  
BO-4-4 Mail Services  
Air Travel  
BO-6-2 Car Rentals and Ground Transportation  
BO-6-3 Lodging, Meals. and Incidentals  
BO-6-4 Trip and Expense Approvals  
BO-6-5 Charge Cards  
BO-6-6 Insurance and Incidents  
BO-6-7 Combined Business and Personal Travel  
BO-6-8 International Travel  
BO-6-9 Travel to Company Offices and Field Locations  
CL-I-1 Education Tuition Reimbursement  
CL-3-1 Continuing Learning  
FI-1-5 Time Recording — Non-Exempt Employees  
£2 ERB £L CB Oe  
i 3  
{ 3  
£F CH £2 CS  
te £8 LA BD tt  
Time Recording - Exempt Employees  
Temporary Domestic Assigrunents  
Permanent Domestic Relocations  
Meai and Mileage Allowances for Exempt Employees  
Employment Status and Categories  
Personnel Folders  
Promotions, Transfers and Reassignments  
Displaced Status  
Termination of Employment  
Equal Employment Opportunity  
Release of Personal  
Pay Plans  
Compensation  
Extended Workweek for Exempt Employees  
Job Descriptions  
Job Evaluation  
Career Paths — Nonsupervisory Exempt Emplc-yees  
Jury Duty  
Holidays  
Vacation  
Sick Leave  
Military Reserve Active Duty  
Disability Leave — Return to Work  
Absences  
Leave of Absence  
Employee Retirement  
Telecommuting  
Alternate Workweek Program  
Corporate Awards Program  
Performance Management  
Perfermance Review Procedures  
Action Procedures  
Education Tuition Reimbursement  
Corporate Study Assistance Program  
Corporate Educational] Assignment Program  
Intergroup Rotation Program  
Complaints and Grievance Process  
Substance Abuse in the Workplace  
Smoke-Free Workplace  
Sexual Harassment  
Disabled Employees — Safety Measures  
Short-Term International Assignment  
Long-Term International Assignment  
Electronic Communication Services  
Safety, Health and Environmental Infractions  
Medical Surveillance Program  
Security Incidents — Disciplinary Actions  
Personnel Security Clearances  
Physical Security  
Traffic and Parking  
Threats and Violence  
TC-1-2 Patents  
TC-1-6 Technical Reports System  
804 Any change in a non-monetary benefit specified by any of the above Policies and Practices  
as they apply to the members of the bargaining unit shall be subject to the provisions of Article II.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### 900 COMPENSATION  
901 During Fiscal Year 2008, the Corporation shall budget. in accordance with past practice,  
merit salary increases aggregating 4.0% of the bargaining unit payroll as of October 1, 2007. Budgeted  
increases for the MTS who have been employed for less than one year on October 1, 2007, may be prorated  
at the discretion of management. Individual increases, less organizational reserves, shall be administered on  
a common review date of December 8, 2007, subject to approval of the Board of Trustees. There shail also  
be a separate discretionary reserve for promotional and special salary increases and other contingencies of  
up to 1.0% computed on the same basis as above. The merit salary increase shall provide for a penetrable  
floor of $15.00 per week for documented poor performance. A description of the compensation process is  
provided in Section B, Non-supervisory MTS, Section 3, Compensation.  
902 During Fiscal Year 2008, the Corporation shall budget, in accordance with past practice,  
for a Performance Recognition Payment Program. At least 59.8% of the total program funding shall be  
distributed to the bargaining unit employees. Total program funding is the amount actually spent on these  
payments to all eligible employees up to a maximum of $3,439,893 (approximately 0.8% of the gross  
payroll). A description of the program is provided in Appendix E, Employee Programs, Section 1.  
Performance Recognition Payment Program.  
903 During Fiscal Year 2008, the Corporation shall budget, in accordance with past practice, a  
Corporate Awards Program aggregating 0.17% of the bargaining unit payroll as of October 1, 2007. A  
description of the program is provided in Appendix E, Employee Programs, Section 4, Corporate Awards  
Program.  
### ARTICLE X  
### 1000 EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL FILES  
1001 An employee may inspect his or her official personnel file at reasonable intervals in  
accordance with rules to be established by the Corporation.  
1002 An employee may submit, for insertion into his or her file, additional material that is  
directly applicable, appropriate, and relevant to his or her proper consideration for promotion, retention,  
transfer, reclassification, etc. Such material may include evidence of additional experience or training  
acquired, response to adverse criticism of performance, etc. The Vice President, Office of Human  
Resources or the Vice President’s designee shall have the right to refuse such submissions if the material  
submitted is deemed to be unsuitable for insertion.  
### ARTICLE XI  
20  
Cb &£ 2 €  
### 1100 CORPORATE DOCUMENTATION  
1101 the policy of the Corporation to identify the principal author, or authors, of Corporate  
publications and reports to the extent practicable and appropriate. Approval signatures, if required, shall  
appear after the authors’ names when permitted by customer requirements. Persons will not be listed as  
authors solely by virtue of their having reviewed, or approved, a document or report.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### 1200 STAFF DEVELOPMENT  
1201 The Corporation is committed to maintaining the professional excellence of its staff and to  
providing an environment, which encourages employee development. The Corporation affirms its intent to  
adriinister its program of Staff Development activities for its professional employees in a fair and equitable  
manner.  
1202 A description of the corporate continuing leaming practice is provided in Appendix. E,  
Employee Programs, Section 5, Continuing Learning.  
1203 A description of corporate learning opportunities is provided in Appendix E, Employee  
Programs, Section 7, Learning Opportunities.  
1204 A description of educational assistance programs is provided in Appendix EF, Employee  
Programs, Section 8, Educational Assistance Programs.  
1205 A description of the Intergroup Rotation Program is provided in Appendix C, Work  
Environment, Section 6, Aerospace Rotation Program (ARP).  
### ARTICLE XIill  
### 1300 TELECOMMUTING  
1301 The Corporation has a formal telecommuting program. The Corporation uses  
telecommuting to provide staffing flexibility and to increase productivity when an assignments  
are compatible with this method of operation. Telecommutirg as part of the normal 40-unit workweek is  
voluntary, requires management approval, involves a cooperative arrangement between supervisor and  
employee, is for a specified time period, and is subject to corporate policies and practices.  
1302. Workdays and hours do not change due to participation in a telecommuting program, unless  
an alternative schedule is developed and agreed to by the employee and supervisor. Employees  
telecommuting during the normal 40-unit workweek and their supervisors wil) sign a Telecommuting  
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that can be terminated at any time by the Corporation or the  
employee. Bargaining unit employees are not required to sign an MOU as 2 conditton of participating in  
the telecommuting program unless such MOU contains the following provision in a prominent location:  
“A non-supervisory MTS, if he or she so chooses, may review this memorandum of understanding  
with an Aerospace Professional Staff Association (APSA) representative before signing it.”  
1303 Employees who telecommute are responsible for taking ordinary precautions in protecting  
against damage to or theft of company-owned equipment and software. Employees are not responsible for  
normal wear and tear,  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### 1400 OR LOCKOUTS  
1401 The Corporation agrees that during the life of this Agreement it will not use a lockout as an  
economic weapon against APSA or the employees represented by APSA.  
1402 APSA agrees that during the life of this Agreement it will not engage in, encourage, assist,  
sanction or sponsor any sit-downs, stay-ins, slow-downs, picketing, boycotts, work stoppages, sympathetic  
strikes whether by employees in the bargaining unit or others or engage in, encourage, assist, sanction or  
sponsor any other action which would interrupt or interfere with any of the operations of the Corporation.  
1403 The employees in the bargaining unit represented by APSA, by accepting the benefits of  
this Agreement, agree that during the term of this Agreement they shall not engage in. encourage, assist or  
participate in any sit-downs, picketing, boycotts, work stoppages, sympathetic strikes or any other action  
which would interrupt or interfere with any of the operations of the Corporation.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### 1500 DISPUTES RESOLUTION  
1501 Employee Grievances  
1502 In the event an employee in the bargaining unit believes that he or she has been dealt with  
unfairly with regard to any specific employment condition or any perceived violation(s) of Policy or  
Practice or a specific provision of this Agreement, such as the provisions with regard to determination of  
performance, salary level or adjustment, discrimination, grievable termination for cause involving whether  
an employee's job performance is acceptable to the Corporation, termination under a RIF, or a transfer, the  
subject employee with or without the assistance of APSA is encouraged to discuss his or her dissatisfaction  
with line supervision up to and including the Division or Operations General Manager, as appropriate, in an  
effort to resolve the matter.  
1503 In addition, the employee has the option of seeking advice and assistance with regard to his  
or her dissatisfaction from the Employee Relations Department or from APSA.  
1504 Step 1 Grievance Resolution  
1505 Within twenty (20) working days of the event giving rise thereto, the employee shall  
initiate the discussion of his or her dissatisfaction  
22  
3  
Fa € 3  
i Jj  
3  
i  
PER € 7 EF  
  
### I  
f  
{ 3  
7 F 9 EF  
f  
1506 =Within twent, (2C) working days after the employee has brought the matt-1 to supervis‘on's  
attention, line supervision up to and including the Division or Operations General Manager shal’ attempt to  
resolve the matter.  
1507 The employee or the supervision may request the presence of a member of the  
Human Resources Division, Employee Relations Department, at such discussions, whether or not APSA its  
assisting. The Employee Relations/Labor Relations Administrator and APSA representative shall meet  
before the meeting to coordinate the meeting process. An employee may secure the assistance of APSA at  
any stage of the processing of a grievance, provided, however, any agreements, schedules or conditions  
established prior to APSA’s entry shall not be altered. If APSA ts involved, the Employee Relations/Laber  
Relations Administrator will act as a facilitator and management advocate. If APSA is uninvolved, the  
Employee Relations/Labor Relations Administrator will act as a facilitater and mediator for corporate  
management and the grievant.  
1508 Step 2 Grievance Resolution  
1509 Within ten (10) workirg days of receipt of the final decision of the Division or Operations  
Genera] Manager or within twenty (20) working days of the expiraticn of the twenty (20) working day  
period referred to above, whichever occurs first, if the matter “emains unresolved or if the employee  
remains dissatistied, the employee may tie a formal written grievance with the Employee Relations  
Department outlining the nature of the grievance and the remedy requested. This formal grievance may be  
filed with or without the assistance of APSA: however, the procedures outlined in this Agreement will be  
followed in either case. If the is filed with APSA, APSA shall assist in submitting the written  
grievance outlining the nature of the grievance and the remedy requested to the Employee Relations/Labor  
Relations Administrator.  
1510 Within twenty (20) working days, the Employee Relations Administrator  
shall attempt to resolve the matter by conferring with the appropriate Division or Operations General  
Manager or his or her designee and with the grieving employee tn the case of a grievance filed without the  
assistance of APSA, or with the employee and APSA in the case ot a grievance tiled with the assistance of  
### APSA.  
1511 waived by the parties, this resolution attempt shall be in the form of a meeting with  
the employee, Division/Operations General Manager, line supervision, Employee Kelations/Labor Relations  
Administrator and the APSA representative. The Employee Relations/Labor Relations Administrator and  
APSA representative shall meet before the meeting to coordinate the meeting process. In a grievance filed  
without the assistance of APSA and unless waived by the parties, the resolution attempt shall be in the form  
of a meeting with the employee. Division/Operations General Manager, line supervision. and the Employee  
Relations/Labor Relations Administrator, The meeting shall be chaired by the General Manager.  
1512 Independent of APSA’s participation, the employee shall receive a written response from  
management.  
1513 Step 3 Grievance Resolution  
1514 Within ten (10) working days of the receipt of management's written response and if the  
matter is not resolved to the satisfaction of the employee, it shall be referred for a fair hearing and  
determination by a Peer Review Board.  
1515 The Peer Review Board shall consist of five (5) voting members: a Level 5 or 6 Vice  
President (technical) selected by the Vice President, Office of Human Resources: a Level 4 or above  
tw  
te  
Manager (technical) selected by the Principal Director, Human Resources; and three (3) bargaining unit  
employees selected randomly from a pool of employee peers. None of these five individuals shall be from  
the grievant’s organization or the defending organization. To the extent possible, none of the five  
individuals shall be from the same organization. The Vice President shall chair the Peer Review Board  
hearing.  
1516 The peer pool shall consist of approximately fifty-two (52) bargaining unit employees.  
Level 5 management will select two (2) individuals from their area. In organizations consisting of twenty-  
five (25) or more bargaining unit employees with no Level 5 management, one (1) individual will be  
selected by Level 6 management. Individuals are selected for a period of up to two (2) years, except that  
for the first year sixteen (16) individuals shall serve for a period of one (1) year. Any time spent in this  
activity by bargaining unit employees shall not have to be made up.  
1517 The grievant may be accompanied in the hearing by an APSA representative or any other  
peer of the grievant's choice. The Employee Relations/Labor Relations Administrator and APSA  
representative shall met before the hearing to coordinate the hearing process. Non-employees may not act  
in this capacity. Members of corporate management may be assisted by an Employee Relations/Labor  
Relations Administrator. If APSA is uninvolved, the Employee Relations/Labor Relations Administrator  
will act as a facilitator and mediator for corporate management and the grievant.  
1518 Additional individuals present in the hearing are limited to two recorders (one selected by  
the grievant and the other selected by the Employee Relations/Labor Relations Administrator), and  
additional observers agreed upon by APSA and Employee Relations/Labor Relations. These individuals are  
restricted to the roles of non-participating observers.  
1519 The decision of the Peer Review Board shall be final and binding on all parties. Individuals  
other than the Board members are precluded from participating in the deliberations. An Employee  
Relations/Labor Relations Administrator shall be present as a recorder. Within twenty (20) working days of  
the hearing, the Peer Review.Board shall submit a written decision to the cognizant Level 6 Vice President.  
Within another five (5) working days, the cognizant Level 6 Vice President shall submit the written  
decision to the grievant and participants.  
1520 Termination-Related Grievances  
1521 To the extent practicable, terminatton-related grievances shall proceed in such a way that  
the following goals may be achieved: (a) Within twenty (20) working days of receipt of termination  
notification, the employee shall begin the grievance process at Step 2 by filing a formal written grievance  
outlining the nature of the grievance and the remedy requested; and (b) The hearing before the Peer Review  
Board shall be held within forty (40) working days of receipt of the grievance.  
1522 ‘Timeliness  
1523 To the extent practicable, all parties shall comply with established timelines of the  
Grievance Resolution process. However, if scheduling precludes meeting all tumelines, timelines may be  
extended upon mutual agreement between APSA and the Corporation.  
1524 Other Conditions  
1525. The Chair of APSA Grievance Committee and the Labor Relations Administrator or  
designee will meet at least once each month to review the status of pending grievances in an effort to  
expedite their resolution.  
24  
FS £ 8 € B E 3  
i  
t  
3  
f  
### J  
7 FE dg ED 6  
f  
é t 32 € 2  
i  
i  
"526 No reprisals or retaliation shall be taken against envy employee because of the employee's  
resort to the procedure set forth herein.  
1527 Employees, tncluding one (1) APSA representative in case of a grievance iiled with the  
assistance of APSA, whose participation in a meeting with the Corporation after the filing of the written  
grievance with the Human Resources Division is required to effectuate the purpose of this provision, shall  
not be required to take unvaid leave or to make up the time spent in any such meeting.  
1528 APSA Grievances and Arbitration  
‘529 APSA itself may present grievances on matters that involve the nghts of APSA itself  
specifically set forth in this Agreement in Article I (Paragraph 106 only}, UI. IV. and VI (Paragraphs 613  
and 630 only) and VII (union activity only}. Additionally, APSA may invoke the provisions of this  
peragraph for presentation of a grievance Involving :ermination for cause ef a bargaining unit member  
where termination does not tnvelve whether the employee’s job performance is acceptable to the  
and the terminated employee has filed a written grievance with the Vice President, Offices of  
Human Resources or the Vice President's designee within nine (9) working days of his or her discharge.  
1530 Any such grievance shall be filed by APSA in writing with the Vice President, Office of  
Human Resources or the Vice designee within twenty (20) days of the event giving rise to the  
grievance except as specified in Paragraph 152° above.  
1531 In the event the Office of Ituman Resources 1s unable tc resolve the raatter to the  
satisfaction ot the parties, APSA may refer the matter to arbitration. provided that ir. the case of a dispute  
concerning an employee's discharge as specified in Paragraph 1529 above, the referral to arbitration must  
be accompanied by a written demand for arbitration from the discharged employee.  
1532 Unless such referral is made within fifteen (15) days of che written response of the Office of  
Human Rescurces, the written response of the Office of Human Resources onal: be final and omding upon  
all parties, including the empleyee(s}.  
1533 In the event of a timely referral to arbitration, after the exhaustion of Paragraphs 1529  
through 1531 of the grievance procedure, the parties shal! select an arbitrator an additionai period of  
ten (10) working days of such a referral to arbitration.  
1534 If the Corporation and APSA are unable to agree upon the seiection of an impartial  
arbitrator within such ten (10) working dzys, they shall then jointly in writting request the American  
Arbitration Association to submit a panel of seven (7) names of persons residing in Southern California.  
APSA and the Corporation shall alternately strike names from szid panel until there is only one (1) name  
remaining and such remaining person shall be the impartial arbitrator. If such person selected is not  
available within a mutually acceptable time, the parties shall request a new panc! and repeat the procedure  
described in this paragraph. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both the  
Corporation and APSA as to all matters of dispute arising under Paragraph 157° of this Article provided,  
however, that the arbitrator shall have no power to add to or subtract from or !o change, alter, or modify any  
of the terms of this Agreement.  
1535 All fees and expenses of the arbitration proceeding shal! te shared equally between the  
parties hereto. Each party shall be responsible for all other expenses incurred by it in the presentation of its  
case, including the compensatzon and 2xpenses of an employee called by it as a witness or representing or  
acting on its behalf. The cost 9° a transcript shall be shared equally when parties arder a copy. Any  
employee called as a witness by APSA or acting on behalf of APSA during the arbitration sha! be given  
time off without pay to participate in the arbitration. In the event an employee’s work assignment is such  
bd  
### A  
that he or she cannot be released to participate as a necessary witness, the arbitration shall be continued or  
rescheduled to permit such employee to testify  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### 1600 GENERAL PROVISIONS  
1601 Where a provision of this Agreement is in conflict with any applicable valid municipal,  
state or federal law or regulation or with any order of a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall  
not be given effect. No other provision herein shall be altered or become void thereby.  
1602 The waiver of any breach or condition of this Agreement by either party shall not constitute  
a precedent in the future enforcement of all terms and conditions herein.  
1603 This is the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes any prior agreement between  
them.  
1604 The provisions of this Agreement shall be applicable at Corporate locations outside the fifty  
United States and the District of Columbia only by mutual consent.  
1605 The Corporation shall provide to APSA, upon request, and by mutual agreement, such data  
as is necessary and reasonable to sermit APSA to fulfill its responsibilities as the bargaining agent for the  
employees covered in this Agreement. In the event of a dispute between APSA and the Corporation with  
regard to the reasonableness, necessity, or format of any APSA request for information, the parties agree to  
meet in a good faith attempt to determine what information is reasonably needed by APSA and what  
conditions are reasonably appropriate.  
1606 The Corpogation shall provide to APSA a quarterly report (Report 022-30, SAP-  
ZHRRMTSO, MTS Non Supervisory Salaries) in both paper copy and disk format indicating the following  
information for each bargaining unit member: two-digit cost center code, geographic location,  
organizational level, position code, employee identification code (EIC) without names, years of experience,  
highest degree with year and major, EBS, hire date, grade, date of last review, review amount, current  
weekly salary, and scheduled number of work hours. The data shall be organized by cost center code and  
position code. Such data shail be provided for all bargaining unit employees as of December 31, 2007, and  
subsequently for each three- (3-) month period. Additionally, such data shall be provided for all bargaining  
unit employees as of the first Monday following any general increase in salaries.  
1607 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation may, after notice  
to APSA, suspend operations in whole or in part or institute a non-pay status program to meet exigencies  
affecting the Corporation’s operations.  
1608 Should either party desire to discuss with the other any matter generally affecting the  
relationship of the parties, a meeting of APSA and Management representatives shall take place at a time  
mutually convenient to both parties. Any use of Corporate time for attendance at such meetings shall be  
arranged in advance by mutual agreement. This paragraph is intended to provide a free avenue of  
communication between APSA and the Corporation, and suggestions, complaints, or other matters may be  
presented by either party, provided that neither party shall be required to agree upon any item brought up by  
the other party.  
ta  
a  
### BoE UE UE aD UB Um a UE DB CU  
i.  
{2  
Ed C8 OC FB € EF La SB  
1609 = In accordance with the Corporation’s past practice and in order to promote efficiency, it is  
the Corporation's intent to continue to provide parking accommodations te its personnel without charge  
subject to applicable governmental policy restrictions or regulations.  
1610 The Corporation and APSA recognize the importance of a drug-free work place and  
recognize the need to comply with the Federal Drug-Free Work Place Act as well as  
regulations promulgated by the Department of Defense concerning a drig-free work environment. Prior to  
implementing any program designed to ensure a drug-free work place, the Corporation shall comply with  
the provisions of Article II.  
1611 ‘The Corporation shall annually provide a description of the funding and status of each of  
the following benefit plans:  
a. Aerospace Employee's Retirement Plan (AERP)  
b. Aerospace Savings Account Plan {ASAP)  
c. Post-Retirement Hospital/Medical Benefits Plan (Retiree Medical)  
Tie description shall be provided as soon as possible afters compietion of the actuarial valuation for  
each plan‘’s year-end date (September 30th fer cach plan).  
1612. The Corporaticn shall provide APSA with quarterly reports in both paper copy and disk  
forn:at of hiring bonuses given to bargaining unit employees by EIC and 2-digit cost center code. The  
quarterly report shall also state the number of bonuses given to non-bargaining unit employees and to  
retirees. Recipients’ names shall not be publicized by the Corporation.  
1613. An Employee Identification Code (EIC) shall be utilized to the confidentiality of  
personal data relevant to individual members of the bargaining unit. The shall exist as a substitute for  
employees’ social security numbers. The EIC shall consist of a six digit random code. which is both  
permanent and unique to each individual employee. The Corporation shall empioyees newly hired  
into the bargaining unit of their assigned EIC at the beginning of their employment.  
1614 The Corporation agrees to continue to distribute an electronic publication, e.g.  
“Happenings, on the corporate web site providing a variety of general information of interest to the  
employees as determined by the Corporation, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 201 of this Agreemeit.  
1615 The Corporation has a commuter services program, which incluces providing support for a  
vendor-operated vanpool-only program. A description of the program may be found in Appendix G,  
Employment-Related Programs, Section 1. Commuter Services.  
1616 The Corporation shall establish a Vanpool Transition Steering Team to oversee and  
coordinate transition to the vendor-operated program. The Team shall consist of representatives from the  
various administrative organizations responsible for implementing the transition and support services and  
thiee (3) participants selected by the Vanpool/Corporate Carpool Counci!. After the Transition, the  
Corporation shall continue io coordinate or a quarterly basis with the vanpool ridership concerning  
potential changes to the Vanpool Program {including changes to ongoing support services). The  
Corporation agrees to provide APSA with a copy of any mmutes and/cr written material.  
1617 The Corporation shall notify and discuss with APSA regarding any and all positions  
proposed to be filled by employees selected by the Corporation from the bargaining unit to be categorized  
as confidential employees.  
1618 The Corporation shall provide to APSA, upon verbal request, copies of collective  
bargaining agreements, side agreements and/or memorandums of agreement between the parties on  
electronic media. If APSA generated the original document, it shall, in turn, provide to the Corporation,  
upon verbal request, a copy on electronic media.  
1619 The Corporation shall provide APSA with a monthly Performance Recognition Payment  
report in both paper copy and disk format summarizing all bargaining unit employees by employee  
identification code (EIC), 2-digit cost center code by Division, the amount of any payment granted, and will  
note if the payment was granted for non-ceiling work. The monthly report shall include a statement (1.e.,  
quantity and dollar value) of the total payments given to the bargaining unit employees during the fiscal  
year up to the date of the report. In the event the amount paid to bargaining unit employees is less than  
$2,057,056 at the end of Fiscal Year 2008, the Corporation shall submit to APSA a statement of the total  
dollar value of the Performance Recognition Payments distributed to all employees throughout the  
Corporation as an aggregate amount.  
1620 The Corporation shall provide APSA in January 2008 with a report that shall state the total  
revenue for FY 2007 non-ceiling work, total fee earned. and total fee pool that was distributed to  
employees.  
1621 The Corporation shall provide APSA with quarterly reports in both paper copy and disk  
format of all corporate awards, except Spot Award luncheons, given to bargaining unit members by name,  
4-digit cost center code, award type and dollar amount. Spot Award luncheons shall be reported  
individually by 4-digit cost center code, award type and total dollar amount only.  
1622 All date information shall be provided with the year formatted as four digits (yyyy).  
1623 Starting March 1, 2005, the Corporation shall provide APSA with the following  
information regarding each bargaining unit employee on a monthly basis in electronic format:  
Employee Identification Code (EIC)  
Two-digit cost center code  
Full-time vs. part-time status  
Work schedule: $1, AWSI, AWS2  
Number of work hours scheduled, including fixed holidays  
Number of work hours reported  
Number of absence hours reported  
mmonoge  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### 1700 DURATION  
1701 This Agreement shall be for a term beginning at 12:01 a.m. on August 1, 2007 and expiring  
at 12:01 a.m. on August 1, 2008.  
1702 Not more than ninety (90) days nor less than sixty (60) days prior to its date of expiration,  
either party may give written notice of its desire to terminate, modify or amend this Agreement. Each party  
€ 3 @ 2  
  
]  
ai cd lf  
3  
### J  
f  
Cc dB a € SF £€ FD ft  
i J  
giving nctice to modify or amend this Agreement shall submit with its notice its proposed modifications or  
amendments in reasonable deiail. In the event no agreement has been reached by the expiration date, then  
either party may at any time hereafter terminate this Agreement by giving ten (10) days’ advance  
notice to the other. Until the expiration of such ten (10) day period this Agreement shall in fil!  
force and effect.  
1703 Any notice to the Association or to the Corporation required or permitted to be given under  
this Agreement will be deerned io have been properly given if it shall have been mailed by Certified Mail,  
return receipt requested, adcressed to the party to which such notices are required or permitted to be given  
as follows:  
1704 =n the case of noiices to the Corporation:  
### THE AEROSPACE CORPORATION  
Attention: Charlotte Lazar-Morrison, General Manager  
Office of Human Resources Division  
P.O. Box 92957  
Los Angeles, California 90009  
1705 Inthe case of notices tu the Association:  
### AEROSPACE PROFESSIONAL STAFF ASSOCIATION  
Attention: Mark M. Simpson, President  
P.O. Box 248  
Hawthorne, Califcmia 906250  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be signed by their respective  
representatives hereunder duly authorized this day of November 7, 2007.  
### THE AEROSPACE CORPORATION  
       
### BY:  
Garv F.  
Principal Director  
Space Materials Laboratory  
C. Gran A  
Principal Director  
Vehicle Subdivision  
(iy za  
Lazar-Morrison  
General Manager Human Resources Division  
  
       
### AEROSPACE PROFESSIONAL  
### STAFF ASSOCIATION  
    
### BY  
Anneliese Libje  
2™! Vice President  
* tel ee  
_Margrre Yi  
S. Dawes  
Officer At large  
      
M. Simpson  
Botaie  
3  
i  
tid it  
i  
i  
Fs € 9 ft  
i  
3  
### ADDENDUM 1  
Confidentiality  
The Aerospace Corporation (“Aerospace”) and the Aerospace Protessional Staff Association (“APSA”)  
collectively referred to hereinaiter as “the parties,” enter into the following agreement (“Agreement”) on  
this 21st day of December, 1992. In order to balance Aerospace’s desire to maintain the confidentiality of  
information it believes is confidential and APSA’s desire to obtain information it believes is relevant and  
necessary to perform its duties as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of Aerospace’s non-  
supervisory Level I. II, and III MTS, the parties agree as follows:  
1. For purposes of this Agreement, the terms “Confidential documents” and “High  
Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only” shall mean any documents and/or written or electronic  
data maintained by Aerospace that (i) Aerospace classifies as “High Internal  
Use Only” (11) APSA cannot obtain publicly through or from another source, and (iit) Aerospace  
deems is subject to this agreement.  
  
Any High Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only documents provided by Aerospace to APSA are  
subject to the tollowing conditions of confidentiality:  
a. Aerospace shall prominently identify with an appropriate stamp or other distinguishing mark  
any documents it deems as High Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only betore providing  
such documents to APSA.  
b. APSA, as to any and all Confidential and/or High Sensitivity/Aerospace. Internal Use Only  
documents provided to it under this Agreement, shall treat such documents with due care and  
take all reasonably prudent acts to prevent unauthorized disclosure of tne same.  
  
With regard to any Confidential and/or High Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only  
documents provided to APSA by Aerospace, APSA agrees not to disclose said documents to  
any third party. Thts restriction shall not apply to protessionals retained by APSA, e-g..  
attorneys and accountants, who are informed of this Agreement and agree to abide by its  
terms. Such Confidential and/or High Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only documents  
shall not be distributed by APSA to either its membership or the bargaining unit, provided,  
however, that APSA may disclose said documents to those persons who are duly  
elected/appointed members of its Board of Directors and other persons acting as official  
representatives and/or agents of APSA.  
d. APSA shall not disclose to any party, other than APSA officers and other persons acting as  
official representatives and/or agents ot APSA who are responsible for collective bargaining  
negotiations and/or grievance processing, any confidential information of a proprietary, trade  
secret, or personal nature (i.e., medical information, psychiatric information/reports, and/or  
disciplinary or counseling notices) relating to any employee of Aerospace, provided,  
however, that APSA shall retain the night to disclose information of a personal nature where  
such disclosure has been authorized in writing by the affected Aerospace employee(s).  
e. APSA shall not disclose to non-bargaining unit employees or to any other third party. in  
whole or in part. the results of any analysis APSA may undertake with respect to Confidential  
and/or High Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only documents and/or information  
contained in such documents. Notwithstanding the preceding, APSA shall retain the nght to  
disclose such analysis and/or documents to the Vice President, Office of Human Resources,  
to Aerospace-designated participants in Step 2 or Step 3 of the grievance resolution process  
where the material is relevant to the specific grievance under consideration, and to  
Aerospace’s management negotiating team during contract negotiations, provided, however,  
that such analysis and/or documents shall not include, refer to, relate to, or be derived from,  
in whole or in part, any confidential information of a proprietary or trade secret nature, and  
provided, that such material shall be identified by APSA with an appropriate stamp or other  
distinguishing mark.  
APSA shall retain the right to disclose to bargaining unit employees the results of any  
analysis APSA may perform on Confidential and/or High Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use  
Only and/or information contained in such documents, provided, however, that such analysis  
shall not include, refer to, relate to, or be derived from the class of confidential information  
referred to in paragraph above, and, provided, that utilization of scatter plots shall be  
limited to employees’ ages, years of experience. lengths of Aerospace service, degrees, MTS  
levels, ladder rankings, salaries, raises, bonuses, and/or other monetary awards.  
APSA shall retain the right to disclose to the National Labor Relations Board, the Equal  
Employment Opportunity Commission, the California Department of Fair Employment and  
Housing, the U.S. Department of Labor, and the California Department of Industrial  
Relations (or equivalent agencies in states other than California), or their successor agencies,  
the results of any analysis APSA performs regarding the Confidential and/or High  
Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only documents when reasonably necessary to comply  
with APSA’s statutory duty of fair representation, provided, however, that APSA shall give  
Aerospace advance notice and an opportunity to bargain before such disclosure.  
Every three (3) years, Aerospace shall remind bargaining unit employees of their assigned  
Employee Identification Codes (“EICs”). Subsequently thereafter. APSA shall notify  
bargaining unit employees that they have the right to request of APSA, in writing, that APSA  
not disclose their individual employment data as part of any analysis that APSA distributes to  
bargaining unit employees. APSA shall honor any such request, and Aerospace shall refrain  
from influencing or persuading bargaining unit employees to make such requests. Each party  
shall notify the other of its compliance with this paragraph.  
In the event APSA receives a subpoena or other validly issued administrative or judicial  
process requesting documents or information that is the subject of this Agreement, APSA  
shall, prior to complying with such subpoena or other process, provide prompt notice to  
Aerospace. APSA shall retain the right to respond to said subpoena or similar legal  
instrument in such a manner as to (i) protect its interests as an institution; (11) comply with its  
statutory duty of fair representation; and/or (i111) comply with governing legal authority.  
This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties regarding the subject matter  
hereof and will not be amended, altered, or modified in any way except by written agreement of the  
parties.  
This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect unless and until one party provides thirty (30)  
days written notice to the other of its intent to terminate this Agreement, provided, however, that the  
terms and provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, 3, and 4 as to any and all Confidential and/or High  
Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only documents provided to APSA under this Agreement shall  
survive the termination of this Agreement.  
1-2  
### I  
Eetai t€2  
  
  
a3 t 3 ft  
3  
(  
Nothing in this Agreeme:.t is irtendeac te Zive or be construed as giving either party in any  
way any greater rights to ubtain or withhold information than provided under federal law.  
Nothing in this Agreement !s intended ta give or should be construed as giving either party mn any  
way any greater or lesser rights than conveyed by Article IV, APSA Communications. of the then-  
### current Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
This Agreement is non-precedential.  
### APPENDIX A  
### DUES DEDUCTION  
### AUTHORIZATION AND ASSIGNMENT  
Name:  
Last First Middle  
CCC Employee No.  
TO THE AEROSPACE CORPORATION (herein called the Company)  
l. You are hereby authorized:  
a. To deduct from my salary each week a sum equivalent to the amount, which shall  
have been, certified by the Aerospace Professional Staff Association (APSA) as the  
weekly portion of its regular membership dues.  
b. To remit all sums so deducted to the Treasurer of the Association.  
This authorization may be revoked by me at any time by giving written notice thereof to  
the Company and APSA; provided, however, such revocation shall not be effective until  
the week beginning four (4) weeks after the week in which the Company receives such  
notice.  
3. This authorization revokes any prior authorization.  
to  
Date:  
Employee Signature  
EF }  
j  
tf )  
### E  
A-2  
Me  
### APPENDIX B  
### NONSUPERVISORY MTS  
### SECTION 1. CAREER PATHS  
The Corporation’s mission requires highly skilled professional support tn technical specialties. The  
Corporation, therefore, provides a professional nonsupervisory career path for Members of the Technical  
Staff (MTS). The MTS professional career path consists of four levels of positions, depending upon the  
employee’s functional assignment and responsibilities. Positions, in order of increasing responsibility, are  
levels 1, 2, 3, and 4 MTS.  
a.  
b.  
Level 1 MTS include the subcategories of Associate MTS, MTS, and Senior MTS.  
Level 2 MTS include engineering specialist, project engineer, research engineer, research  
scientist and project leader.  
Level 3 MTS include senior engineering specialist, senior project engineer, senior engineer,  
senior scientist, and senior project leader.  
The next step as a nonsupervisory MTS are the level 4 positions of principal engineer and  
principal scientist. These positions are not included in the bargaining unit represented by APSA.  
MTS on the nonsupervisory career path who become available for reassignment due to organizational or  
programmatic changes may be transferred to other positions on the nonsupervisory career path in  
accordance with corporate needs and individual interests and if the required position qualifications are  
met. Such reassignments shall not be made for the purpose of justifying a termination of employment  
based upon an ostensible lack of work.  
### SECTION 2. MTS JOB DESCRIPTIONS  
### LEVEL 1 MTS JOB DESCRIPTIONS  
### DATE:  
### TITLE:  
### TITLE:  
### TITLE:  
### TITLE:  
### TITLE:  
### TITLE  
### TITLE:  
01/28/03  
Advanced Degree Fellowship* ORG. LEVEL: 1 GRADE: 00** POS. CODE: 4008  
Member of the Technical Staff ORG. LEVEL: 1 GRADE: 81 POS. CODE: 4009  
Associate MTS ORG. LEVEL: 1 GRADE: 81 POS. CODE: 4018  
Senior MTS ORG. LEVEL: | GRADE: 81 POS. CODE: 4019  
Associate MTS — Rotation Program* ORG. LEVEL: 1 POS. CODE: 4028  
: MTS - Rotation Program* ORG. LEVEL: 1 GRADE: 81 POS. CODE: 4029  
Senior MTS - Rotation Program* ORG. LEVEL: 1 GRADE: 8! POS. CODE: 4039  
Purpose  
Provides professional engineering/scientific support within (research and development) engineering,  
systems engineering, project engineering, or technology functions/organizations.  
B-]  
Typical Assignments  
Engineering assignments: Performs analytical studies, conducts tests, develops details of specifications,  
prepares details of analytical report findings, assists in planning and development of studies and design  
projects.  
Systems engineering assignments: Participates in development of program interfaces between hardware  
and computer systems; diagnoses both hardware and software simulation tool problems; designs  
improvements to simulation environments; develops and/or revises programs for data reduction and  
analysis.  
Project engineering assignments: Performs analytical studies, conducts integration tests, develops details  
of acquisition hardware/software and database specifications.  
Technology assignments: Assists in technology planning and development; performs testing and  
evaluation of materials and devices; develops procurement specifications and test procedures; prepares  
details of analytical reports, including preliminary findings and recommendations.  
Characteristics & Capabilities  
Associate Member of the Technical Staff: Applies standard techniques, procedures and criteria in  
carrying out a series of engineering tasks under supervision and guidance. Contacts are primarily with  
immediate supervisor, project leaders, and/or other MTS professionals in the group. Normally possesses  
a bachelor's degree in an appropriate technical discipline from a recognized institution (or an equivalent  
combination of training and experience).  
Member of the Technical, Staff: Independently evaluates, selects, and applies engineering techniques,  
procedures and criteria, using judgment in making adaptations and modifications. Assignments typically  
have specified objectives. Contacts are primarily internal, with infrequent inter-organizational and  
outside customer contacts on routine matters. Normally possess a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate  
technical discipline from a recognized institution (or an equivalent combination of training and  
experience) and two or more years of increasingly responsible and related engineering/scientific  
experience.  
Senior Member of the Technical Staff: Plans and conducts work requiring judgment in the independent  
evaluation, selection and adaptation/modification of a variety of techniques, procedures and criteria.  
Devises new approaches to problems encountered. Frequent inter-organizational and outside customer  
contacts on matters of importance. Normally possess a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate technical  
discipline from a recognized institution (or an equivalent combination of training and experience) and  
five or more years of increasingly responsible and related engineering/scientific experience.  
* Designates temporary assignment allowing an employee (normally assigned to an engineering/technology  
organization) experience in other assignments (frequently in program office environments) in order to expand  
technical and administrative skills and to enhance career progress.  
** Job classification assigned to "ungraded" status (Grade 00) to allow transfer of employees from/to any Pay Grade  
without need for recording a demotional or promotional transaction.  
3  
3 € B € dC £2 Ef  
i  
3  
{  
### E  
### E  
### LEVEL 2 MTS JOB DESCRIPTIONS  
DATE: 01/28/€3  
TITLE: Project Leader ORG. LEVEL: 2 GRADE: 82 = POS. CODE: 4476  
TITLE: Engineer - Rotation Program ORG. LEVEL: 2 GRADE: 82 POS. CODE: 4436  
TITLE: Research Scientist ORG. LEVEL: 2 GRADE: 82 = POS. CODE: 4456  
TiTLE: Engineer ORG. LEVEL: 2 GRADE: 82 POS. CODE: 4466  
TITLE: Project Engineer ORG. LEVEL: 2 GRADE: 82 =POS. CODE: 4486  
TITLE: Engineering Specialist ORG. LEVEL: 2 GRADE: &2 CODE: 4496  
Purpose  
Works independently with both internal and external customers and with technical support, as a technical  
authority, consulcant, primary investigator, or project leader. May lead or organize technica! efforts or  
project teams. Interfaces between and Aerospace technival ana management staff. May  
mentor less experienced MTS and serve as role model.  
Characteristics & Capabilities  
Project Leader: Serves as integration leader and/or coordinator of a teani of contributors.  
identifies issues, prioritizes tasks, facilitates communications, and acts as spokesperson for the working  
group to management/customers. Scopes requirements for and initiai¢és acquisition of technical support  
from appropriate corporate resources. Monitors and may assist in development of budgets and other  
resource allocations to accomplish tasks, and may be given additional administrative coordination and  
management liaison responsibilities. Acts as mentor to team members, providing onentation, technical  
guidance and development insight. May participate in new business anwor technical planning efforts.  
May bring in tasks and projects beyond personal activities from internal and exterial sources.  
Engineer - Rotation Program: A temporary assignment aliowing an employee (normally assigned co an  
engineering specialist or engineer/scientist role) experience in other assignments (frequently in program  
office environments) in order to expand technical and coordinative skills aria to enhance career progress.  
Research Engineer/Scientist: Determines analytical techniques, mterpretation of results, and arranges  
for performance of analyses; assesses associate contractors’ technologies, analyzes and resolves proolems,  
determines associate contractors’ technology support needs, and may act as pro tem consultant to  
associate contractors: assesses suitability of simulation models and resu.ts. and verifies results using  
alternative methods and approaches; devises and recommends improvements in data reduction analysis  
methods; prepares reports and oral presentations. May lead project teams within a department. Supports  
multiple programs and/or activities and frequently acts as POC for technical activities. May bring in tasks  
and projects beyond personal activities from internal and external sources.  
Project Engineer: Normally responsible for (a) a specific project element (e.g., a payload, spacecraft  
subsystem, or software package) and associated interfaces: (b) a specitic engineering discipline (e.g..  
fracture analysis, circuit design): (c} a program of system aspect that crosses technical boundaries (e.g.,  
mission analysis, technical design/evaluation. on-orbit operations). in systems engineering assignments.  
independently services a number of project segments and/or smaller program/project efforts.  
Engineering Specialist: Conducts specialized technical studies and reports findings. Coordinates  
specific technical assignments for designated discipline or organizations. Provides technical advice to  
management, customers, and associate contractors. Initiates development of advanced analytical  
techniques, concepts, and/or design criteria for subsystems. May lead project teams within a department.  
Supports multiple programs and/or activities and frequently acts as POC for technical activities. May  
bring in tasks and projects beyond personal activities from internal and external sources.  
Common Knowledge, Experience And Educational Requirements  
Normally possess a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate technical discipline from a recognized institution  
(or an equivalent combination of training and experience) and eight or more years of increasingly  
responsible and related engineering/scientific experience, preferably including experience in a systems  
engineering and/or program management environment. Exhibits high level of innovation, creativeness,  
and initiative. Demonstrated ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with  
customers. Broad internal recognition from peers and Aerospace program office. Broad  
technical/programmatics impact inside and outside of Aerospace.  
### LEVEL 3 MTS JOB DESCRIPTIONS  
DATE: 01/28/03  
TITLE: Sentor Project Leader ORG. LEVEL: 3 GRADE: 83 POS. CODE: 4527  
TITLE: Sr. Engineer - Rotation Prgm. ORG.LEVEL:3 GRADE: 83 POS. CODE: 4557  
TITLE: Senior Scientist ORG. LEVEL:3 GRADE: 83 POS. CODE: 4567  
TITLE: Senior Engineer ORG. LEVEL:3 GRADE: 83 POS. CODE: 4577  
TITLE: Senior Engineering Specialist ORG.LEVEL:3 GRADE: 83 POS. CODE: 4587  
TITLE: Senior Project Engineer ORG. LEVEL:3 GRADE: 83 POS. CODE: 4597  
Purpose  
Acts as senior technical authority, consultant, primary investigator, or team leader. May lead or organize  
interfaces between customers’ and Aerospace technical and management staff. Coordinates large-scale  
technical efforts across program/project lines. Mentors less experienced MTS and serves as role model.  
Characteristics & Capabilities  
Senior Project Leader: Serves as the integration leader and/or coordinator of a team of technical  
contributors which may include advanced or senior level technical/project specialists, or may serve as  
principal technical representative to customer, coordinating efforts on several smaller projects in  
concurrent operation or on portions of larger multi-phase/multi-disciplinary project. Identifies issues,  
prioritizes tasks, facilitates communications, and acts as spokesperson for the working group to  
management/ customers. Scopes requirements for and initiates acquisition of technical support from  
appropriate corporate resources including cost and economic or market analysis specialists, as  
appropriate. Monitors and may assist in development of budgets and other resource allocations to  
accomplish tasks, and may be given additional administrative coordination and management liaison  
responsibilities. Acts as senior mentor to team members, providing orientation, technical guidance and  
development insight. May participate in new business and/or technical planning efforts. May bring in  
tasks and projects beyond personal activities from internal and external sources.  
Sr. Engineer - Rotation Program: A temporary assignment allowing an employee (normally assigned  
to a senior engineering specialist or senior engineer/scientist role) experience in other assignments  
(frequently in program office environments) in order to expand technical and coordinative skills and to  
enhance career progress.  
Sr. Engineer/Scientist: Provides technical authority and leadership in conducting studies; provides  
technical guidance to associate contractors and government agencies in formulating systems  
criteria/requirements; prepares technical proposals to obtain internal/external funding for research and  
B-4  
ta £ES Ls  
C2 & SD  
### EB ER ER ERB ECB EB EB ERB ECD ECD £SD  
i  
development efforts: maintains authoritative with national! laboratories and technical centers. May  
lead cross-organizational teams and crganizes interfaces with customer and/or Aerospace program  
offices. May bring tn tasks and projects beyond personal activities from internal and extemal sources.  
Sr. Engineering Specialist: Independently conducts long-range technical studies and reports findings.  
Initiates studies designed to solve new technical problems and provide new technical solutions within area  
of expertise. Provides ongoing technical consultation and advice to management, customers. and  
contraciors in area of specialization. Takes initiative to inform management of perceived technical  
problems and recomrmends courses of action. May lead cross-organizaticnal teams and organizes  
interfaces with customer and/or Aerospace program cffices. May bring in tasks and projects beyond  
nersonal activities from interna! and external sources. Acts as organization's designated representative at  
technical meetings, presentations, and symposia.  
Sr. Project Engineer: May undertake a major program segment such as system-level architectural  
analysis, conceptual design of a new vehicle or major payload. May be required to investigate urgent  
technical problems or assemble a major briefing or report. As Aerospace representative in customer's or  
contractor's environment, provides nondirective advice. accepts action items and may coordinate pertinent  
budgets, tasks, and priorities. In systems enyineering assignments, generally leads/coordinates tezm  
comprised of diversely skilled engineers servicing a major portion cf a large project or working across  
projects, and interfaces regularly wir custcmer and contractor program management.  
Common Knowledge, Experience And EJucational Requirements  
Normally possess a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate technical discipline from a recognized institution  
(or an equivalent combination of training and experience) and twelve or more years of increasingly  
responsible and related engineering/scientitic experience, preferably including multi-disciplinary systems  
engineering and/or program management environments. Exhibits excepticnally high level of innevation,  
creativeness, and initiative. Demonstrated ability to establish and rzintain effective working  
relationships with customers. ‘Widely recognized internally and externally by peers, management,  
program office, Air Force, and contractors.  
### SECTION 3. MTS COMPENSATION  
### GENERAL  
Compensation budgets and salary/merit review procedures are established for <ffective and consistent  
salary acnunistration. Base-pay salary adjustments are made to reflect changes in Job responsibilities,  
individual performance, career growth within job assignments, and improvement of internal salary equity.  
A variable pay program has been established as an integral part of the compensation system for regular  
employees. Variable pay is a form of compensation tied to the strategic mission that encourages the  
achievement of corporate goals. The variable pay program complements the aiinual merit review program  
and rewards employees for exceptional performance and accomplishments with a lump-sum cash award,  
without increasing the employee's base pay or affecting employee benefits.  
The variable pay program includes hiring incentives, as appropriate, to acquire critical skills.  
### PROCESS  
Promotional increases  
B-5  
A promotional increase reflects an employee's movement to a position in a higher salary grade. It  
recognizes a major change in job assignment, usually occurring through the transfer process, such as from  
Member of the Technical Staff (MTS) to Manager, or an employee's growth in capability and job  
responsibilities, such as a reclassification to a higher-graded position within the same job family, e.g.,  
Budget Analyst to Senior Budget Analyst.  
A nonexempt employee may be promoted to an exempt position by progressing through more responsible  
jobs in a job family, gradually acquiring an applicable degree or comparable education and experience,  
and performing exempt-level duties; e.g., Laboratory Technician (nonexempt) to Research Assistant  
(nonexempt) to Research Specialist (exempt).  
A position is exempt from the provisions of the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act and the California  
Wage Orders if it meets the criteria for exemption as defined by state and federal statutes (see Practice  
HR-1-1).  
A nonexempt employee may also be approved for promotion to an exempt classification upon  
demonstrating ability to perform exempt-level work as defined by state and federal exemption tests.  
The supervisor normally consults Compensation and initiates the promotion when the employee's  
demonstrated level of work qualifies for exempt status. Compensation may conduct a job audit to  
determine if the employee is performing exempt-level work as defined by state and federal statutes.  
An employee selected for an exempt position who does not clearly possess the minimum education and  
experience qualifications may be placed in a lower-grade (trainee) classification for a period, normally of  
six to 12 months.  
Reclassification  
Reclassification involves the movement of a job classification to a higher or lower salary grade and  
usually results from a determination based on job evaluation or an industry/labor market salary survey.  
An employee in an upgraded classification may be given a salary increase to achieve an equitable position  
relative to the new peer group. The salary of an employee in a downgraded classification may be adjusted  
to reflect decreased responsibilities and should fall within the lower salary grade parameters.  
When reclassifying to MTS, the Staffing Resources Department and the Compensation Department  
evaluate the employee's education and work history, agree on the equivalent years of MTS experience,  
and establish the appropriate salary along with any required salary adjustment.  
Salary Inequities  
A salary adjustment may be recommended at any time by Compensation and management to correct a  
salary inequity based on evaluation of an employee's salary, performance level, and both internal and  
external salary relationships.  
Over 15 Percent Salary Increases  
B-6  
A salary increase over 15 percent musi be justified and documented. When such an increase 1s  
contemplated, the supervisor should contact the appropnate Compensation Representative for assistance  
in preparing the required documeniation as well as for concurrence with this action.  
A salary increase totaling more than 15 percent within a 12-month period requires the approval of the  
appropriate Level 6 Vice President.  
The time period for calculating the 15 percent limitation is the 12 months preceding the proposed  
increase. For example, if an emplcyee is to be given a salary adjustment on August 28, that increase,  
when combined with all other increases received since the previous August 28. cannot exceed 15 percent  
without special approval.  
Salary/Merit Reviews  
Salaries of all regular employees are reviewed in the fall of each year. Salary increase forecasts are  
prepared for merit rev.ews, which usually become cffective in mid-December or as authorized by the  
Board of Trusiees.  
Auinua, Salary/merit reviews are intended to unprove corporate-wide salary and employee performance  
relationships and provide incentive for meeting and exceeding performace expectations.  
Properly administered annual salary budgets maintain overall salary levels that are competitive in the  
extemal marketplace. Within the merit budget, line managers have flexibility to adjust individual salaries  
according to their evaluation of salary equity compared with contributions ana performance.  
Variable Pay  
As funding permits, a sum of money for employee incentive programs ts allocated along with the merit  
budget.  
Division general managers approve the distribution of individual payments employees at level 4 and  
below based on criteria including, but not limited to, exceptional performance, c7itical skills or capabuity,  
technical contributions, team leadership or team contributions, cost savings, supporl centnbutions, or  
significant employee accomplishments.  
Individual awards of more than $10.000 require approval of the executive Council.  
The Board of Trustees approves the distribution of funds to management employees above level + to  
recognize exceptional job performance in advancement of corporate goals.  
Lump-sum payments do not become part of an employee's base salary; nowever, payments are taxable  
and reported to Internal Revenue as income earned.  
Hiring Incentives  
Any employee who voluntary terminates employment or is terminated for cause within 12 months of the  
date of hire after receiving a hiring bonus is obligated to repay the bonus upon termination of  
employment.  
Compensation Budgets  
The Compensation Department recommends annual compensation budgets based on compensation survey  
data and goals defined by the Executive Council. The budgets are approved by the Board of Trustees and  
allocated to the Executive Offices and the Groups by the Compensation Department.  
A corporate reserve is established for promotions, defined inequities, and exceptional salary adjustment  
requirements occurring throughout the year. This reserve is distributed based on a collaborative decision  
process normally involving the Business Directors and the Compensation Department.  
The Compensation Department develops and, with Executive Council approval, communicates  
instructions each year for the allocation and administration of salary adjustment budgets.  
Compensation budgets for bargaining unit employees are negotiated annually with the Aerospace  
Professional Staff Association.  
### SECTION 4. MTS PAY PLAN STRUCTURE  
The Aerospace Corporation and the Aerospace Professional Staff Association agree that the MTS Pay  
Plan will be conducted in conformity with the following description and guidelines:  
### OBJECTIVE OF PROPOSED STRUCTURE  
The objective of the MTS structure is to provide the organization with a structure that reflects internal pay  
practices and one that is representative of the external marketplace. The proposed structure does both. In  
addition, it provides a clear, defensible guideline that meets the requirements of our customers and of our  
auditing agencies.  
### OVERVIEW OF NEW STRUCTURE  
The proposed MTS structure will recognize pay differences related to job roles, that is, by organizational  
level (levels 1 — 4). Bargaining unit employees will be found in the first three levels, in the same manner  
that they are currently classified by organizational level. Level 1 will be defined for all EBS increments;  
however, level 2 will be defined with a “typical entry point” of 8 years, and level 3 will be defined with a  
“typical entry point” of 12 years. This is consistent with the current published guidelines found in the  
Aerospace Professional Career Path booklet.  
Each of the three bargaining unit organizational levels will be defined by a minimum and a maximum rate  
of pay. The minimums and maximums reflect market pay for comparable work in competitive  
organizations.  
### CURVE DEVELOPMENT  
Within organizational levels 1 and 2, five relative percentiles for each year of experience will be  
identified, P10, P25, P50, P75, P90. For level 3, three relative percentiles for each year of experience will  
B-8  
Ed ta it  
i  
be identified, P25, P50, P75. The relative percentiles will reflect the projected distributien of actual  
employee salaries by EBS for the effective y2ar. The actual vlotted percentile curves will be smoothed.  
The relative percentile curves will be updated on an annual basis effective mid-December to reflect the  
actual population's new distribution. At that time, the minimums and the maximums will be evaluated and  
adjusted to the extent necessary. Except in exceptional circumstances, the new minimuns will not be  
greater than any individual minimum and the new maximums will not be less than any individual  
meximum.  
### USE OF THE PROPOSED STRUCTURE  
The proposed structure will be used internally in the following way:  
To provide an administrative guideline for salary determination for newly-hired or recently-  
promoted employees, to establish minimum and maximum rates of pay as required by our  
customer(s), and to meet the requirem 2nts of external auditing agencies.  
The proposed structure will be utilized primarily by the compensation and employment  
departmetts and by administrators in the technical g-oups.  
### SPECIFIC ADMINISTRATIVE ISSUES  
Comparing today’s actual internal population with the prcposed structure. we see that essentially all of  
the current population fits within the proposed minimum and maximum rates of pay by organizational  
level. However, over time, as salaries and job assignments change, that may not be the case. Salaries  
falling outside the proposed ranges of pay will be addressed in the same manner as they are today. In  
general, guidelines for such situations are as follows:  
a. Promotion for an employee whose current salary is less than the minimum of the new  
organizational level: If the EBS is at or above the “typical entry point” for the nev  
organizational level, the employee will be automatica!ly moved (i.e., non-budgeted increase) to  
the minimum of the new organizational leve!. and then promotional dollars will be applied to  
bring the salary into an equitable relationship with those of peers. This reflects the current  
practice for promotions of this type. Instances where an employee's EBS is less than the “typical  
entry point” will be handled on an exception basis to ensure equity among other employees at or  
above the “typical entry point.”  
b. Voluntary demotion for an employee whose higher-level job is eliminated: As per practice  
HR-2-3 Compensation, when an employee is reclassified to a lower-graded position, the  
employee's salary should be adjusted to reflect a decrease in responsibility and should not exceed  
the current maximum of the lower-grade rate range.  
### G  
Salary movement for an employee whose salary falls beneath the minimum of the organizational  
level after the (annual) structure adjustment takes place: Compensation will continue to notify  
management whenever this occurs. In almost al) instances, a non-budgeted increase is given to  
bring that employee to the minimum of the new organizational level. However, management  
maintains the final decision for determming whether an increase to the minimum of the new rate  
will be given. Instances in which the rate is not adjusted include an employee who entered an  
organizational level two or three position earlier than at the “typical entry point” OR an  
individual whose overall level of contribution or utility is ranked very low relative to those of  
their peers.  
R-9  
d. Salary movement for an employee whose salary is at the maximum of the organizational level:  
Increases in pay will not occur until] the maximum rate for the organizational level increases,  
which occurs whenever the structure is adjusted (usually on an annual basis).  
### STRUCTURE  
The following curves will be available:  
a. A smoothed percentile plot of all bargaining unit employees from year 0 to year 43 for current  
employees as of December 15, 1997.  
b. A smoothed percentile plot of all LEVEL | bargaining unit employees from year 0 to year 43 for  
current employees as of December 15, 1997.  
A smoothed percentile plot of all LEVEL 2 bargaining unit employees from year 8 to year 43 for  
current employees as of December 15, 1997.  
d. A smoothed percentile plot of all LEVEL 3 bargaining unit employees from year 12 to year 43  
for current employees as of December 15, 1997.  
These curves will be updated each year with an effective date of mid-December. The first update will  
reflect an effective date of December 15, 1998.  
### OTHER ISSUES  
In the HRMIS/SAP system, the EBS field will be updated to reflect only whole numbers  
effective October 4, 1993. Employees whose EBS now reflects one-half years will be rounded up  
to the next whole number, i.e., EBSs will be rounded off to the nearest integer. On December 12,  
1993, all MTS will be credited with an additional year of experience to reflect the end of another  
year.  
The following changes will also be reflected in HRMIS/SAP December 9, 2006:  
a. Grade 99, level 0 MTS, will no longer be active. All current MTS in level 0 will be  
changed to level 1.  
b. Level 1 MTS will be classified in grade 81.  
Level 2 MTS will be classified in grade 82.  
Level 3 MTS will be classified in grade 83.  
C. The minimum and maximum for grade 81 will be $1,086 and $2,478 per week.  
The minimum and maximum for grade 82 will be $1,448 and $3,198 per week.  
The minimum and maximum for grade 83 will be $1,690 and $3,788 per week.  
The minimum and maximum for grade 84 will be $2,009 and $4,495 per week.  
B-10  
### E  
i  
### APPENDIX C  
### WORK ENVIRONMENT  
### SECTION 1. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT PROCESS  
### EMPLOYEE VALUE  
The value to the Corporation is a major consideration in the following situations:  
a, Salary management  
b. Reduction-in-force  
c. Promotion  
d, Transfers  
e. Job assignments  
The parties agree that an empioyee’s value is composed of two major categories: indiv.dual performance  
and other factors. These are listed below with their agreed-to components, wnich are not intended to be  
all-inclusive. Each organization should tailor the guidelines to its requirements/needs for communicating  
organizational value.  
Individual Performance  
Job Knowledge: The degree of demonstrated understanding of the skills, orinciples. techniques, and  
procedures necessary to perform all phases of the position. Does the employee have both and  
depth of required skills to perform both fundamental and specialized tasks, maintain currency in the field,  
exhibit creativity, and incorporate innovative techniques and procedures into their work?  
Productivity: Demonstrate utilization of job knowledge and skilis to produce work of quantity and  
quality meeting the professional standards of the organization. Does the employee set goals and  
consistently complete tasks on schedule. and provide accurate resuits requiring a minimum of  
correction and amplification?  
Dependability: The demonstrated commitment to complete assignments reliably with minimal  
supervision. Does the employee make a commitment, meet deadlines. and follow work rules and  
procedures? Does the employee comply with and maintain a safe, healthy, and injury-free work  
environment? Can the employee be relied on during times of crisis?  
Corporate and Organizational Perspective: The degree of demonstrated commitment to the corporate  
and organizational mission. Does the employee participate as a team member and develop effective  
teams? Does performance reflect an emphasis on customer focus, mission impact, and value to the  
Corporation? Is the employee cost conscious?  
Adaptability: The degree of demonstrated flexibility to assess and adjust to changing work conditions  
precipitated by new corporate strategies and priorities, programmatic constraints, and/or unexpected  
changes in requirements. Does the employee demonstrate ability to undertake a variety of assignments,  
develop alternative courses of action, and apply knowledge/skills to new areas?  
C-1  
Leadership: The degree of demonstrated ability to achieve customer satisfaction through inspiring,  
mentoring, coaching, and empowering. Does employee take initiative, exhibit persistence and  
enthusiasm, assume risks, anticipate and meet others’ needs?  
Communication: The demonstrated ability to express ideas clearly, listens effectively. and fosters an  
exchange of information with all personnel. Does the employee create clear, relevant, and effective  
communications; express verbal communication that ts clear, articulate, responsive, and sensitive to the  
audience?  
Interpersonal Skills: The degree of demonstrated ability to interact with others in an effective manner,  
which promotes attainment of goals. Does the employee relate well to others, encourage communication,  
cooperate in problem solving and strive to maintain a harmonious environment, respond well to direction  
and training, and respond to criticism and praise?  
Other Factors  
a. Experience and Training  
l. Proven skills and talents  
2. Competency stage  
3, Credentials  
b. Organizational and Corporate Needs  
1. Level of responsibility  
2. Importance and difficulty of assignments  
3. Impact of current contributions  
4. Likely future contributions  
5. Degree of job match  
6. Degree of geographic match  
7. Has useful contacts  
8. Criticality of customers supported  
Cc. Latent Skills and Talents  
1. Potential  
2, Marketable unused qualities and traits  
d. Marketplace  
Value of employee’s products and contributions relative to the marketplace  
Constraints placed on Aerospace by external policy-makers  
>}  
### SALARY MANAGEMENT PROCESS  
Generally, an employee’s salary is based on the value of the employee's contributions to the Corporation.  
The employee's value is expressed as a ranking relative to the other employees in the same organization.  
The ranking process may be a linear ranking in the form of a ladder with the highest-ranked individual  
being at the top of the ladder and the lowest-ranked individual being at the bottom of the ladder.  
### I  
i  
f  
### J  
The parties agree that either linear ranking or natural grouping may be utilized by management for the  
purpose of vatue rauking. For veduction-in-force, ranking will te linear. Natural grou;ing tmplies that  
under ideal conditions the indiv:dual employees in ‘he same group would receive the same salarv. Linear  
ranking simply means that each group ts composed of only one individual.  
The agree that, for the purpose of salary management, preliminary ranking of employees shall be  
performed after the manager receives and reviews the Performance Evaluation Forms’ Part LA  
from the employees. It 1s acknowledged that ranking ts an iterative process.  
Generally, an employee’s merit increase is a direct function of the rank, present salary  
relative to the other emoloyees in the same organization, performance ana other factors, and the  
Corporation's merit review bud 2et.  
### REPORTING TO EMPLOYEES  
The employees receive annual performance evaluations in accordance with Article VI of the current  
collective bargaining agreement.  
The parties agree that written comments shall be provided for one of the eight (8) performance  
components that is an area of strength and one of the eight (%) performance comporents that is an area to  
strengthen. Written comments regarding the individual’s general performance sha‘l be provided. The  
comments on the “area to strengthen” shall be in most cases a “future developmen‘ need” which shall not  
be discussed in the general performance. In a few cases the “area to strengthen” shall be a “needs  
improvement’. This shall only be used when the MTS ts told that a fathire tc improve shall be  
documented on PEF/APIP and that the MTS was given adequate time to improve. The manager shall be  
prepared to discuss all eight performance components.  
The parties agree that management expectations for the forthcoming year ar? an 2ppropriate subject of  
discussion between the manager and the employee, but shall not be 1mte the documentation  
of the current annual performance evaluation.  
### REPORTING TO APSA  
Employee salaries are provided to APSA pursuant to Paragraph 1606 of the collective bargaining  
apreement.  
The parties agree that bargaining unit ladder/ranking data as provided by the Corporation to APSA  
pursuant to a lawful request by APSA shall be provided in both hard copy form and as a single file on  
magnetic media.  
### SECTION 2. CORRECTIVE ACTION  
### GENERAL  
The corporation has a three-step formal corrective action process for managing unsatisfactory  
and/or unacceptable conduct. The process consists of progressive steps taken by  
management in an effort to resolve the problem. This practice is intended for supervisors to use to correct  
an employee's unsatisfactory performance and/or unacceptable conduct.  
Prior to initiating formal corrective action, supervisors informally coach and counsel employees in a  
continuous process to establish and maintain expectations of performance, conduct, and productivity as  
detailed in the Performance Management Practice (see Practice HR-4-1). Employees are given the  
opportunity to improve their unsatisfactory performance and/or unacceptable conduct before notation is  
made on the annual Performance Review Evaluation Form or the formal corrective action process is  
initiated. When supervision's coaching and counseling fail to correct the problem or do not result in  
improved performance or conduct, supervisors may promptly initiate the formal corrective action process  
by contacting Employee Relations (ER).  
Supervisors document performance and conduct on a continuous performance management basis. This  
documentation is required for events leading to the corrective action process and is reviewed by ER when  
cortective action is initiated.  
ER assists both the supervisor and employee in the corrective action process. ER involvement is required  
at each step of the formal corrective action process to preserve a balance between the rights of the  
employee and the interests of the corporation.  
Management, with the assistance of ER, may intervene immediately in the event of gross misconduct or  
extreme circumstances without following the corrective action process.  
ER initiates actions or investigations related to problems of performance or conduct that may adversely  
affect an employee's status. Such actions include, but are not limited to, formal corrective action,  
suspension, termination, demotion, reassignment, or displacement. Cases involving serious breaches of  
security, possible illegal activity, fraud. waste and abuse, or situations where it is appropriate, an  
investigation will be coordinated with the Director of Security and Safety, the Director of Internal Audits,  
or the Office of the General Counsel.  
The Vice President, Office of Human Resources, will ensure the proper coordination of activities in  
situations requiring the correlation of investigative efforts among ER, Security and Safety, Internal  
Audits, and the Office of the General Counsel so that the rights of the employee are properly balanced  
with the interests and its responsibility to conduct a fair, impartial, and effective  
investigation.  
Supervisors are responsible for promptly addressing unsatisfactory performance or conduct of subordinate  
supervisory personnel up to and including corrective action and/or immediate reassignment if the  
situation warrants and if an appropriate opening is available, with the concurrence of the Vice President,  
Office of Human Resources, and the organization’s level 6 vice president.  
### PROCESS  
Managing an employee’s unsatisfactory performance or conduct may require taking one or more of three  
corrective action steps: Informal Counseling, Formal Counseling and Formal Written Plan.  
Options resulting from the process include deactivating the corrective action when performance or  
conduct improves, proceeding to the next step when performance or conduct does not improve, or  
extending the process to permit further evaluation of improvement or accommodate extenuating  
circumstances. Supervisors may escalate the corrective action process at any time. The corrective action  
process may result in termination of employment if performance or conduct does not improve.  
Scheduled merit reviews and promotions for employees at Step 2 or 3 of the formal corrective action  
process are deferred or omitted until conclusion of corrective action; increases, it subsequently granted,  
are not retroactive. Transfers for employees in the formal corrective action process are permitted.  
C-4  
t  
### A  
Step 1 — Informal Counseling  
Informal Counseling is normally the next step when Performance Management coaching and counseling  
with the employee has failed to correct unsatisfactory performance or conduct (see Practice HR-4-},  
Performance Management). Although the supervisor and employee may seek assistance and counseling  
from ER, this Informal Counseling session is only between the supervisor and the employee.  
The superviser immediately meets with the emplovee in a Step | - Informal Counseling s#ssion to  
adcress the conticuing unsatisfactory performance and/or unacceptable conduct. This meeting includes  
the following:  
a. A thorough review of the expectetions of the employee’s performance and conduct.  
b. Specific identification of the perceived unsatisfactory pertormar.ce and/or unacceptable conduct.  
C, Consideraiion of the employee's to the identified p-oblem( -).  
d. Action necessary to bring employee's unsatisfactory performance and/or unacceptable conduct up  
to standard, includiny a time frarre for correction.  
é, An explanation of the «consequences of failure to meet the expected standards, including  
progression to the next step of Corrective Action. If the unsatisfactory performance and/or  
unacceptable conduct is not corrected, the employee should be zdvised they are in Step 1 --  
Informal Counseling before management proceeds to Step 2 — For.ial Cor iseling.  
The employee ts provided the opportunity to respond to the identified problem(s! in the corrective action  
meeting.  
No formal documentation of this Stzp | - Informal Counseling meeting is rzguired other than informal  
notes in the supervisor's file. No documentation ts placed in the employee's personnel file.  
Step 2 — Formal Counseling  
Step 2 - Formal Counseling is normally tae next step when Step | — Informal Counseling has failed to  
correct the unsatisfactory performance and/or conduct.  
The supervisor conters with the next level of management and ER. The supervisor advises the employee  
of possible escalated corrective action.  
ER reviews the supervisor's documentation to verify the employee was coached and counseled infonnally  
on unsatisfactory performance or conduct in Step 1 — Informal Counseling and was given the opportunity  
to correct the problem.  
ER meets with the employee to provide an opportunity for questions and vevifies understanding of the  
corrective action process. ER prov:des copies of cco-porate practices HR-+-1, Performance Management:  
HR-4-3, Corrective Action Procedures; HR-6-1, Complaints and Grievance Procedures; and any other  
relevant practices.  
ER coordinates a meeting with the employee and the supervisor to discuss the unsatisfactory performance  
and/or conduct. ER advises the employee of the nght to request attendance of a peer (coworker) as an  
observer. If the employee is a member of the bargaining unit, the employee may invite an Aerospace  
Professional Staff Association (APSA) representative in accordance with the APSA Collective  
Bargaining Agreement.  
The supervisor and the ER administrator meet with the employee to discuss and clarify the possible  
consequences of continued unsatisfactory performance or conduct. The items discussed in previous  
coaching and Step 1 — Informal Counseling meetings are restated per corporate practice (see Practice HR-  
4-1). Both the employee and the supervisor should clearly understand the points covered and the  
conditions set during this Step 2 - Formal Counseling meeting, including a clearly specified time period  
for improving performance or conduct, commensurate with the problem. The employee is informed of  
the time period specified for showing improvement in performance or conduct during Step 2.  
If performance or conduct continue to deteriorate, or do not improve sufficiently, the corrective action  
process may be accelerated to Step 3 — Formal Written Plan.  
The supervisor prepares a written summary of this meeting and the points that were covered. A copy of  
this memorandum is given to the employee and ER. This memorandum is ‘not placed in the employee's  
personne! file and contains a statement to that effect.  
The employee is provided the opportunity to respond to the identified problem(s) in the corrective action  
meeting. The employee may also submit comments regarding the corrective action process to ER within  
two workdays after the meeting. A copy of the employee's comments will be given to the supervisor.  
The supervisor confers with ER and may decide to deactivate Step 2 - Formal Counseling, extend the  
specified time period, or proceed to Step 3 — Formal Written Plan.  
If there is an extension, ER coordinates a meeting with the supervisor and employee to review the  
progress. ER advises the employee of the right to request attendance of a peer (coworker) as  
an observer. If the is a member of the bargaining unit, the employee may invite an APSA  
representative in accordance .with the APSA Collective Bargaining Agreement. The supervisor  
summarizes the meeting in.a:memorandum to the employee with a copy to ER.  
Step 3 - Formal Written Plan  
A Step 3 - Formal Written Corrective Action Plan is normally the next step when an employee has failed  
to correct the unsatisfactory performance or conduct during Step 2 — Formal Counseling.  
The supervisor confers with the next level of management, the cognizant general manager, and ER. The  
supervisor advises the employee of possible escalation of corrective action.  
ER reviews management's documentation to verify the employee was coached and counseled in Step 2 —  
Formal Counseling on unsatisfactory performance or conduct and was given the opportunity to correct the  
problem.  
ER meets with the employee to provide an opportunity for questions and verifies understanding of the  
corrective action process. ER provides copies of corporate practices HR-4-1, Performance Management;  
HR-4-3, Corrective Action Procedures: HR-6-1, Complaints and Grievance Procedures; and any other  
relevant practices.  
The supervisor prepares a Formal Written Plan with the assistance of ER. This plan is approved by the  
next level of management and the organization’s general manager. The plan includes:  
C-6  
5  
  
i  
i  
### a DUE  
  
i  
f  
i i  
a. Sxplicn description of the unsatisfactory performance or conduct, including frequency, duration,  
and dates of occurrence, if pertinent.  
b. Previous efforts to assist the employee in the correction of the problem through Performance  
Management informal coaching and counseling, Step 2 - Fortnal Counseling, and performance  
review discussions.  
guidelines for performance or condu2t required of the employee to correct the problem,  
and explanation of consequences of failure to meet the expected standards  
d. The specified time period for the employee to correct the problem. The process will be  
accelerated if unsatisfactory performance or conduct continues  
e. Provision for immediate termination 1f the problem 1s not corrected.  
ER coordingstes a Meeting with the employee and the supervisor, ER. advises the ernployee of the right te  
request attendance of a peer (coworker) as an observer. If the employee is of the bargaining  
unit, the employee may invite an APSA representative in accordance with the APSA Collective  
Bargaining Agreement.  
The supervisor and the ER meet with the employee and present fhe Forma] Writter. Plan  
Each item on the plan is discussed, and the employee is encouraged to respond. The employee signs the  
plan ana receives the original. Copies go to the emplcyee’s personnel file. the supervisor, and ER.  
After two years of satisfactory performance and conduct, the Formal Written Plan is removed from the  
eniployee's personnel file.  
The employee will be provided the oppertunity to respena to the identified problem(s) in the corrective  
action meeting. The employee may also submit commenis regarding the cermeetive action process to ER  
within two workdays after the meeting. A copy of the conrents will be given fe the  
supervisor.  
The supervisor, at any time during or at the completion of the Step 3 —Formal Written Plan phase, and  
after conferring with ER, may decide to deectivate Step 3, extend the specified tine penod, or proceed  
with termination ¢f employment (see Practice The superviyer extend the time period of  
the current Formal Written Plan or prepare a new Plan.  
If there is an extension, ER coordinates a meeting with the supervisor und employee to review the  
employee's progress and present the new, written Plan. A peer may attend as an observer. If the  
employee is a member of the bargaining unit, the employee may invite an Aerospace Professional Staff  
Association representative in accordance with the APSA Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
Recurrence of Unsatisfactory Performance or Conduct  
The supervisor, after conferring with ER, may initiate a corrective actior siep up to and including  
termination when an employee, having been in any step of the corrective ac:ion process, has had the step  
deactivated by improved performance or conduct, but again exhibits unsatisfactory performance or  
conduct. The supervisor need not start the corrective action process from the beginning, even if the  
unsatisfactory performance or conduct is different thar. previously exhibited by the employee. ER assists  
the supervisor in determining which step of corrective action ts appropriate for the cucumstances.  
Immediate Management Intervention  
C-7  
Gross misconduct or extreme circumstances may necessitate immediate suspension or termination.  
Employees immediately report to line management any incident of gross misconduct or extreme  
circumstances. ER must be notified for assistance.  
When misconduct or extreme circumstances warrant, the supervisor with the assistance of ER may take  
immediate action to have an employee immediately relieved of duty and removed from the premises,  
pending further investigation. While the employee is suspended, ER conducts an investigation of the  
circumstances and coordinates with line management, Security and Safety, the Office of the General  
Counsel, and Internal Audits, as required.  
ER notifies management of the findings of the investigation and makes a recommendation to management  
based on corporate policy and practice. ER notifies the employee of the findings and resultant decision of  
management, which may include termination or reinstatement. ER assists management in finalizing this  
process.  
APSA is notified as soon as possible when a bargaining unit Member of the Technical Staff (MTS) is  
involved.  
Exempt employees may only be suspended without pay in full week increments. An exempt employee  
suspended during a week in which the employee has performed any work will be paid in full for that  
week.  
Situations requiring management intervention include, but are not limited to, the following:  
a. Drug-free workplace violations (see Practice HR-6-2)  
b. Conflict-of-Interest violations (see Practice ST-1-2).  
c, Gross negligence or intentional actions resulting in damage to corporate property or interests (see  
Practice PR-3-1).  
d. Discrimination against or harassment of any employee; sexual harassment violations (see Practice  
HR-6-4).  
e. Failure to comply with information systems security procedures.  
f. Embezzlement or theft of corporate or employee property.  
g. Security clearance denied or revoked.  
h. Possession of a dangerous weapon on the premises unless specifically authorized by the  
corporation (see Practice SE-6-1).  
1. Falsification or misrepresentation of information on timecards or employment applications.  
j. Insubordination, e.g., refusal to comply with reasonable, job-related instructions from the  
supervisor.  
k. Job abandonment (includes unauthorized departure from job, department, or premises; failure to  
return to work upon expiration of a Leave of Absence; and failure to report to work and notify  
supervisor of absence).  
C-8  
### (Aida £FEA EB CB OED  
i Ce £2  
### cB LS  
a oe oe ee ee Ge  
1. Working at another company while on medical disability  
ni. Unavailabihtty to perferm job, e.g.. excessive absences.  
n. Divulging information of a proprietary or sensitive nature.  
Q. Using The Aerospace Corporation's time. equipment and premises to perform work for another  
company and/or activities  
p. Violations of the Fraud, Waste and Abuse Awareness Progra:n isee Prictice ST-1-1).  
q. Violent, threatening, ot abusive behavior, andor physical assault (se: Practice SE-6-3)  
r, Garnoling m the workplace.  
### SECTION 3. ALTERNATE PROGRAM  
The corporation provides a voluntary Alternate Workweek Program designed to increase flexibility tn  
scheauled work hours and workdays for regular full-time employees. Part-time, casual, arid temporary  
employees are not eligible to participate in this program.  
Regular full-tume employees may choose to work a standard 5/40 workweek (five 8-hour workdays,  
Monday through Friday) or may choose to work one of two Alternate Work Schedules (AWS) that ailow  
for a day off every other Friday. This is referred to as a 9/80 workweek.  
The standard Monday-through-Friday workday at El Segundo offices is scheduled from 7:15 a.m. to 4  
p.m.. with a 45-minute lunch period. Regional offices may utiuze difierent workday schedules.  
Schedules that vary from the normal start and stop times or lunch periods require management approval.  
The Monday-through-Thursday workday for employees on AWS ts from 7:00 a.m. io 4.45 p.m., with a  
45-minute lunch period. Schedules that vary from the normal start and stop times or lunch periods  
require management approval. The employee works 7:00 a.m. to 3.45 p.m. the firs. Fnday of each AWS  
two-week cycle (work hours are divided. for time recording purposes, into four hours/units in the morning  
for the first week and four hours/units in the afternoon for the second week). Regional offices may utilize  
different AWS workday schedules. Each payroll! week is 40 hours/units.  
The second Friday of each AWS two-week cycle is the employee's reguiar aay off (RDO). The RDO is  
treated the same as a weekend day with regard to paid absences. Any employee who works on his/her  
assigned RDO reports, for time recording purposes, the work hours tn the rnorning as part of the current  
week’s effort and the work hours in the afternoon as part of the subsequent week's  
Newly hired, regular full-time employees begin working on the standard 5/40 workweek unless  
otherwise agreed by the new employee and their manager. New hires choosing to work on an alternate  
workweek schedule may go on AWS at the beginning of the earliest applicable schedule cycle.  
Two calendars indicating Alternate Schedule 1 and Alternate Schedule 2 are proviaed to employees on a  
yearly basis. Employee selection of an individual schedule will be subject to approval by immediate  
management.  
C-9  
Alternative workweek participation and assigned work days and hours for individual employees are  
subject to internal and external corporate needs as determined by management. Employees in certain  
positions may not be eligible for desired schedules due to the nature of the job or customer requirements.  
AWS will have no impact on employee benefits such as sick leave and vacation accrual, medical, dental,  
vision, life insurance, voluntary personal accident insurance, retirement, disability, or flexible spending  
accounts.  
Regular full-time employees submit an Alternate Work Schedule Request and Change Form (Form 470)  
to immediate management. Management attempts to accommodate an employee's choice of work  
schedule and approves Form 470 when appropriate. The approved form is sent to Payroll two weeks  
prior to the start date of the new work schedule. For new hires, management submits an approved Form  
470 to Payroll at the beginning of employment.  
A three-month commitment: should be made to the new schedule to minimize frequent schedule changes  
while still allowing flexibility. Employees on AWS may elect to return to the 5/40 workweek at the end  
of any 9/80-workweek cycle (two weeks), subject to management coordination and approval. An  
employee who voluntarily terminates participation in the 9/80 workweek would normally have to wait  
three months before requesting to return to the 9/80 workweek.  
Employees on AWS charge actual hours for vacation, sick time, holidays, jury duty. legal absence,  
bereavement, and extended workweek.  
When a holiday falls on a Friday and it is a RDO for employees on AWS, employees take the preceding  
Thursday as the holiday. When a holiday falls on a nine-hour workday (Monday through Thursday),  
employees on AWS charge the additional hour to personal holiday or vacation, or may make up the  
additional hour in the same workweek.  
Exempt employees on AWS and extended workweek have the option of working on the preceding  
Thursday and receiving pay.for the holiday and the extra day off (see Practice HR-2-4).  
Employees are paid a maximum of 40 hours per week for jury service. The Friday RDO 1s treated like a  
weekend day. No additional compensation will be paid to employees asked to appear for jury duty on  
their RDO.  
### SECTION 4. EXTENDED WORKWEEK (EWW)  
Extended workweek (EWW) is a workweek that exceeds the standard 40-unit workweek for full-tume  
employees or the regular work schedule for part-time employees. EWW is an expedient measure for  
extraordinary situations that require additional specific effort over a designated limited period for the  
timely accomplishment of program or project objectives within the funding level EWW may be  
authorized in increments of up to three months.  
Exempt employees through level 4 are eligible to receive temporary, added compensation when an EWW  
is specifically tasked and authorized in advance by the level 5 manager with program or project budget  
authority. The cognizant level 5 manager may authorize emergency extended workweeks after the fact.  
Compensation for EWW is paid only for a week during which a full-time employee works the equivalent  
of at least six standard workdays (48 units), and includes an employee’s base 40-unit weekly salary and  
the equivalent hourly rate for the additional units worked beyond 40 in the week. After the weekly  
minimum of 48 units has been met. EWW may be charged in one-unit increments.  
C-10  
f  
t 3  
t  
### I  
  
L {  
  
3  
### I  
d  
  
i J  
i  
i J et  
  
Part-time employees receive EWW compensation ¢nly for a week during which the employee works at  
least 8 untts over the regular work schedule, and includes an employee's base weekly salary and the  
equivalent hourly rate for the additional units worked beyond the regular work schedule. After the  
weekly minimum of & over the regular work schedule has been mzt, EWW may be charged in one-  
uti merements.  
Employees on an alternate work schedule may be authorized EWW compensation for work on a Friday  
regular day off (RDO). The RDO ‘s treated the same as a weexend day. When a scheduled holiday falls  
on a RDO, the employee takes the preceding Thursday cs the holiday. An employee on an alternative  
work schedule and EWW has the option of working on the preceding Thursday and receiving pay for the  
holiday and the extra day of work.  
Holidays. bereavement. jury duty, vacation approved in advance, and paid sick leave, up to five  
consevutive days, are corsidered standard workdays. Employees who take vacation while on EWW shall  
not be denied credit tor work associated with a scheduled EWW provided the vacation was approved in  
advance by the cognizant level! 5 manager.  
An employee’s EWW compensation may not exceed 20 units in a workweek or 400 units in a fseal ver.  
Line management may approve an exception to the EWW 20-unit workweek maximum only when an  
employee is directed to work cn holidays while on EWW and ts required to work EWW units  
in that week. Employees directed to work on holidays when on EWW will receive EWW pay for the  
units worked in addition to the normal holiday compensation (see Practice HR-3-2).  
A Vacation Accrual Limitation Waiver Request (Form 34), approved by the 2zmployee's level 5 manager,  
musi be submitted to Payroll when ar emplovee reaches the maximum vac ation accrual while on EWW  
or following termination of the scheduled EWW.,  
### SECTION 5. HIRING, PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS & KREASSIGNMENTS  
### HIRING  
Posted positions are not offered to external applicants until full consideration has been given tv all  
suitably qualified internal applicants, 1.e., employees who have applied during the first two weeks of a  
position posting in the Position Vacancy Listing.  
The corporation's policy is not to place a new employee in an organization where the employee would be  
reporting to the same manager/supervisor as a family member or domestic partner. Family members and  
domestic partners may not be in a supervisory relationship.  
### GENERAL  
The corporation promotes from within when qualified applicants are available. Promotion is based on job  
understanding, experience, demonstrated comnpetence, and ability to assuine added responsibility and  
authority.  
Employees are encouraged to apply for transfers and reassignments that are beneficial to the employee  
and to corporate interests. Applicants receive equitable and ccnsistent treatment when applying for  
posted position vacancics.  
The corporation's policy is not to transfer an employee into an organization where the employee would be  
reporting to the same manager/supervisor as a family member or domestic partner. Family members and  
domestic partners may not be in a supervisory relationship.  
Employees may apply for any posted position for which their qualifications meet the minimum  
requirements, However, employees cannot have more than three active applications under consideration  
at the same time. Employees in a position for fewer than six months must have their supervisor's  
approval on the transfer application.  
Vacant positions through level 4 are posted; however, a level 6 vice president can withhold from posting  
a vacancy below level 4. Executive Council approval is required to withhold posting at level 4.  
Posted position vacancies are not offered to external applicants until consideration is given to all qualified  
employees who applied during the first two weeks of posting. The level 6 vice president, or designee,  
may elect to post a vacancy with the notation "Strong Candidate Identified." if a highly qualified  
candidate has been identified.  
Managers are strongly encouraged to interview employees displaced by organizational changes or  
personnel requirements. The corporation expedites the review of transfer applications of employees on  
notice for a reduction in force (RIF) when the corporation believes transfers may be warranted. In RIF  
and displacement cases, there are no restrictions on the number of applications an employee may have  
active at the same time nor must such applicants have been in the previous position for a minimum of six  
months. Normally, all qualified applicants for a vacancy are interviewed. If more than six applicants  
apply, only the six best-qualified need to be interviewed, provided that qualified applicants on RIF notice  
are interviewed.  
The employment representative facilitates the expeditious accomplishment of these processes on behalf of  
the applicant and hiring supervisor.  
### SECTION 6. AEROSPACE ROTATION PROGRAM (ARP)  
The Aerospace Rotation Program provides selected Members of the Technical Staff (MTS) the  
opportunity to broaden their perspective and knowledge of company and customer operations by  
accepting temporary assignments in the technical organizations. Long-term goals of the ARP are to foster  
closer communication among the technical groups. to develop leadership skills in program participants,  
and to enhance the staff's experience base and career development options.  
The ARP facilitates mobility of MTS between groups by creating special temporary positions in all three  
technical groups. MTS may apply for, on a completely voluntary basis, an assignment for up to 12  
months to a position in another group with the understanding and full assurance that, upon completion of  
the assignment, they may return to their originating organization and level. The appropriateness of a  
proposed assignment is explored thoroughly by the involved line management of the originating and host  
organizations and the applicants before a final agreement is reached.  
### Ee £2 ECS CSB  
  
& £2  
### EB ERP LA CB Ed  
oo on  
MTS participating in the program are retainsd as members of their current cost center: however,  
nianagement of their activities is transferred to the host organization for the duration of the assignmert.  
Changes to the terms of the rotation assignment agreement may be made with the concurrence of the  
management of both the originating and host organizations and the participating MTS.  
‘the corporation provides assistance and allowances to minimize the disruptive and economic impact en a  
regular employee who accepts a position in the ARP that results tn relocation. Please refer to Practice FI-  
2-1, Temporary Domestic Assignment for specifics. The ARP is intended to be as flexible as possible in  
meeting its objectives. The following ground rules should be interpreted accordingly:  
a.  
b.  
### G  
Cb  
MTS participation in the plan will be voluntary.  
Candidates for in this program shall be MTS with a minimum of 5 years total  
experience, at least 2 of which shaii have been at The Aerospace Corporation. It is expected that  
the majority of candidaves will hold technical staif positions.  
All levels of management will support the plan and stress its career benefits when counseling  
### MTS.  
Host/originating group management at both Level 4 and 4 will approve ail! participants after  
consultation with Level 2 aad 3 management. Evaluation criteria will stress ability to  
learn in and adapt to the new environment as well as to contribute to the host organization.  
Return of a selected candidate to his or her original organization and levei wil! be guaranteed for  
up to 12 months, or longer if acceptable to all parties.  
Selected MTS from ETG will not limit their activities to their technical specialties, but will be  
expected to actively participate in the core task of their host organization. They will be placed in  
positions with good customer/contractor exposure and be given a variety of assignments.  
Rotation of Program Office candidates to ETG will be encouraged by the creation of appropriate  
informal positions such as lead engineers. commensurate with candidates’ experience/interests.  
Promotions of plan participants will be pre-coordinated between originating and host  
management. Only such pre-coordinated promotions will be retained when the participant returns  
to the originating organization.  
Participants may withdraw from the program to accept other assignments, including promotion or  
permanent transter.  
Host management will provide a written performance appraisal and associated performance  
appraisal interview record for inclusion in the annual Performance Evaluation Form (PEF).  
Originating management will coordinate and complete the annual PEF for the participating MTS,  
including the performance appraisal documentation and associated ‘iiterview results provided by  
the host organization.  
Originating management will forecast the participating MTS’s annual merit review based on the  
previous year’s performance evaluation combined with the perfonnance appraisal provided by the host  
organization. {t is expected that participation in the program will enhance the careers of participating  
MTS. Consequently the MTS’s ranking in the originating organization will mot normally be lowered by  
participation in the program.  
C-13  
Additional information on the ARP can be obtained from the ARP Handbook. This handbook and  
additional information can be obtained through the ARP website http://info.aero.org/hr/ARP.  
### SECTION 7. EXEMPT EMPLOYEES — DISTRIBUTION OF EFFORT  
### GENERAL  
The corporation's contracts with the Air Force and other customers describe technical tasks to be carried  
out and require that work performed on the various tasks be reported accurately. Exempt employees  
report such work in terms of hours of effort.  
Hours of effort include all time during which an employee is directly subject to the control of the  
corporation. Time spent in work-related travel is also included in hours of effort subject to the control of  
the corporation. Time spent in traveling from home to and from the usual work place is not included.  
The standard Monday-through-Friday workday at El Segundo offices is scheduled from 7:15 a.m. to 4  
p.m., with a 45-minute lunch period. Schedules that vary from the normal start and stop times or lunch  
periods require management approval. Regional offices may utilize different workday schedules.  
The Monday-through-Thursday workday for employees on alternate work schedules (AWS) is from 7:00  
a.m. to 4:45 p.m., with a 45-minute lunch period. Schedules that vary from the normal start and stop times  
or lunch periods require management approval. The employee works 7:00 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. the first  
Friday of each AWS two-week cycle; the second Friday is the employee's regular day off (RDO). The  
RDO is treated the same as a weekend day.  
### PROCESS  
Distribution of effort is documented by employees on a daily basis. For accounting and compensation  
purposes, the payroll week begins on Saturday at 12:01 a.m. and ends at midnight Friday for employees  
on the standard work schedule. For employees on an alternate work schedule, the payroll week begins  
mid-day on Friday and ends mid-day the following Friday. Any employee who works on his/her assigned  
RDO reports, for time recording purposes, the work hours in the morning as part of the current week's  
effort and the work hours in the afternoon as part of the subsequent week's effort.  
Distribution of effort and absences are recorded in the e-time Collection system. Exempt employees use  
actual hours in reporting their work effort. Full-time exempt employees are expected to account for a  
total of 40 or more hours of effort per workweek. E-time automatically prorates the reported work hours,  
except Extended Work Week hours, to a maximum of 40 units.  
Voluntary absences, necessitated by personal reasons in which an employee is not ready, willing and able  
to work, are accounted for when 40 hours of effort are not expended on corporate work. An exempt  
employee is expected to account for the difference between reported hours worked and the scheduled  
hours of effort using paid sick leave, vacation or other absence, as appropriate, to the nearest whole hour,  
or "no pay" in whole-day increments. “Whole-day” refers to the total number of hours scheduled for  
individual workdays.  
An exception to the whole day, no pay minimum is made for part-time employees. Otherwise, use of no  
pay is not permitted for partial-day absences.  
C-14  
{  
  
t  
| ee ee  
i  
i  
E 3  
i  
Absences in whole-day increments for personal reasons ‘1.e., other iher approved absences) may result in  
the exernpt employee's pay for the resorted workweek being reduced in the event that the employee hes  
exhausted all paid vacation benefit.  
Exempt employees are not required to account for the difference between time actually worked and the  
scheduled hours of effort due to insufficient work assignments. The difference ts charged to a: overhead  
account, subject to review and approval by the supervisor.  
The following absence codes must be recorded and approved on timecards:  
D Death or Funeral in Femily (Relationship of deceased is written cn the back of the timecard)  
E Emergency Shutdown  
F Family Care and Mcdical Leave  
H Holiday  
Industria! Injury Time Loss  
J Jury Duty  
L Legally Required Court Appeararce  
M Military Reserve Duty  
N No Pay  
O Other Paid Absences  
P Personal Holiday  
R Rehabilitation  
S Sick Leave  
Vv Vacation  
The hours reported by the employee using the above absence codes are not prorated by the 2-time  
Collection system.  
A holiday must be recorded as 8 hours (4 hours for part-time employees) of absence. When a holiday  
falls on a 9-hour workday (Monday through Thursday), employees on an alternate work schedule charge  
the additional hour to personal holiday or vacation, or may make up the additional hour in the same  
workweek.  
The corporation provides for up to two hours of paid absence if an employee would not otherwise be able  
to vote in an election. Such absence is reported as Other Paid Absences.  
An exempt employee who works 40 or more hours and takes one or more authorized hours of Emergency  
Shutdown (“E™) may record it on their tumecard that way. Management may not require employees to not  
record “E™ on their timecards if it was approved and the employees took the time off. On the other hand.  
the same approved hours of Emergency Shutdown may be used to complete a 40-hour workweek.  
This approach would not apply to recording sick time, vacation, or any other absences. In such situations,  
employees may reduce the reported hours of absence provided that they end up reporting the minimum  
40-hour workweek. Retroactive adjustments may be made to scheduled vacation taken during a given  
week because of subsequent effort performed later in the week. Retroactive adjustments may not be made  
to scheduled vacation taken during an Emergency Shutdown.  
Each exempt employee signs a completed timekeeping form at the end of each week. The employee's  
signature certifies that, to the best of their knowledge. the recorded hours are true and correct.  
Management's signature on the timekeeping form certifies the reasonableness of the application and  
distribution of effort and the validity of absences recorded.  
The employee is notified of any subsequent correction and/or change to the employee's entries to the e-  
time Collection system.  
Payment for Unused Personal Holiday Hours — Personal Holiday hours are not cumulative from year to  
year. At the end of the fiscal year, if an employee has not taken their personal holiday hours, they will be  
paid for the unused portion.  
Emergency Shutdown Hours  
An exempt employee who works 40 or more hours and takes one or more authorized hours of Emergency  
Shutdown (“E™) may record it on their timecard that way. The “E” time does not have to be left off the  
timecard even though it may not be needed to satisfy the minimum 40-hour workweek. The most  
accurate action for the employee is to record the actual hours worked and any authorized hours of  
Emergency Shutdown, if used. Management may not require employees to leave “E™ off their timecards  
if it was approved and the employees took the time off.  
On the other hand, the same approved hours of Emergency Shutdown may be used to complete a 40-hour  
workweek.  
This approach would not apply to recording sick time, vacation, or any other absences. In such situations,  
employees may reduce the reported hours of absence as long as they end up reporting the minimum 40-  
hour workweek.  
### SECTION 8. EXEMPT EMPLOYEES - PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT  
### GENERAL  
The following terms and conditions of employment for part-time exempt employees are modeled, with  
limited exceptions, on the terms and conditions applicable to full-tume exempt employees. The goal is to  
maintain the maximum flexibility possible for part-time exempt employees while complying with federal  
and state laws.  
### SCHEDULE  
The part-time employee chooses from the following list of scheduled work hours per week: 20, 24, 25,  
28. 30, 32, 35, and 36. Based on the scheduled work hours, a “nominal work schedule” is established, in  
writing, by the employee and the manager. The “nominal schedule” shall state the number of hours to be  
worked by the employee on each workday.  
| oe oe |  
i  
### UD  
### E  
Daily work schedules may be varied on a week-to-week basis. in writing. subject to management  
discretion. The goal 1s to recognize the inherent flexibility allewed for exempt employees in complving  
“vith management direction while establishing a basis by which paid absences are determined. This  
schedule is referred to as the “current work schedule” or “current schedule.” The number of  
scheduled work hours per week will be identical in both nominal and current schedules.  
Changes to the number of scheduled work hours per week and the resultant weekly salary must be  
submitted using a Personnel Status Change (PSC).  
Part-time employees are eligible for Extended Work Week (EWW?.  
### COMPENSATION  
Weekly compensation is computed on the basis of the number of scheduled work hours per week. An  
exempt employee is not paid for work hours exceeding his/her scheduled work hours per week, except as  
authorized for EWW.  
No pay may be utilized in whole-day increments (not necessarily 8 hours) based on the “current work  
schedule” established for the employee. There is no prescribed limit, subicct ta management discretion,  
on the voluntary utilization of no pay by part-time exempt employees.  
### ABSENCES  
Holidays are defined as seven fixed holidays and a personal holiday that ‘: scheduled by the employee.  
Four hours of holiday pay cre provided for each holiday, including the persona! holiday. The personal  
holiday may be used as a (partial) day off or in one-hour increments.  
lf a holiday falls on a scheduled workday and 1s less than the scheduled hours for the day, the employze is  
expected either to use vacation to make up the rest of the day or to make up the time during the then-  
current workweek. If an employee has inadequate accrued vacation and needs an extra vacation hour(s)  
to complete a holiday absence. the employee is allowed to borrow the necessary vacation.  
The actuai hours based on the employve’s “current work schedule” are applicable to the following paid  
absences:  
Death or Funeral in Family  
Emergency Shutdown  
Industrial Injury Time Loss  
Jury Duty  
Legally Required Court Appearance  
Military Reserve Duty  
Rehabilitation  
Sick Leave  
Vacation  
### PAYMENT FOR UNUSED PERSONAL HOLIDAY HOURS  
Personal Holiday hours are not cumulative trom year to year. At the end of the fiscal year, if an  
employee has not taken their personal holiday hours, they will be paid for the unused portion.  
### BENEFITS  
Full-time benefits” for part-time employees refers to the individual employee’s benefits if he/she were a  
full-time employee working 40 hours per week. The “part-time benefits” for employees are prorated as  
described below relative to the same employee working full-time.  
“Weekly salary” refers to the weekly salary paid to the individual employee while working part-time.  
Full-time salary” refers to the weekly salary that the individual employee would earn if working full-time  
and drawing a salary based on 40 hours/units of work.  
Part-time employees are eligible for, but are not limited to, the following benefits:  
Vacation Accrual — The part-time benefit uses the same hourly relationship as is applicable to  
full-time employees.  
Severance Pay if RIF’d — Half credit is given for part-time service; pay is based on the eligible  
weeks of severance pay multiplied by the current full-time salary.  
Life Insurance (Company Paid) — The part-time benefit 1s based on half of the full-time annual  
salary, rounded to the nearest $1,000.  
Life Insurance (Employee Paid) — The part-time benefit is based on half of the full-time annual  
salary, rounded to the nearest $1,000.  
Medical Insurance — Full-time benefit.  
Dental Insurance — Full-time benefit.  
Vision Coverage — Full-time benefit.  
STD/SDI — The part-time benefit is based on the most recent 12 months of salary.  
Long-Term Disability — The part-time benefit is based on the most recent 12 months of salary.  
Occupational Accident (Company Paid) — Full-time benefit.  
Voluntary Personal Accident (Employee Paid) — Full-time benefit.  
Flexible Spending Account — Full-time benefit.  
VA/AP — Full-time benefit.  
Aerospace Employees’ Retirement Plan (AERP) - Employees who were hired prior to 1/1/93 are  
covered under AERP. The part-time benefit is based on a “blended” salary during each fiscal  
year after meeting the 1000-hour requirement. The “blended” salary assumes that the annual  
raise goes into effect on January 1“ of the fiscal year.  
Aerospace Savings Account Plan (ASAP) - Employees who hired on or after 1/1/93. The part-  
time benefit is based on the weekly salary after meeting the 1000-hour requirement.  
Retiree Medical — Full-time benefit.  
és € 8  
ae  
  
### J  
Ee t 3 £4 i J f  
i  
(  
### OTHER PROVISIONS  
The Alternate Workweek Schedule (AWS) is not applicable to part-time employees, although part-time  
employees may schedule up to nine hours a day in their “nominal” and/or “current work schedules.”  
No changes to Telecommuting are identified since the assigned workdays and hours are set by mutual  
acreemert between the employee and hts/her manager.  
### SECTION 9. NONEXEMPT EMPLOYEES — DISTRIBUTION OF EFFORT  
### GENERAL  
The corporation regulates work schedules of nonexempt employees in a manner consistent with good  
business practices and the requirements of applicable federal and state laws.  
The workweek is a regularly recurring 168-hour period of seven consecutive 24-nour workdays. The  
standard workweek at The Aerospace Corporation commences with the First Shift on Saturday. The  
Alternate Work Schedule (AWS) workweek coinmences mid-shift on Fricay. Full-time employees are  
usually assigned a 40-hour schedule.  
Scheduled Work Hours  
The principal work shift (Day Shift) at El Segundo corporate offices is 7:15 a.m. to 4 p.m.. with a 45-  
minute lunch period. Schedules that vary trom the normal start and stop times o1 lunch periods require  
management approval. The principal work shift at regional offices begins between 6:15- &:15 a.m.  
depending on location. Employees assigned to work the Second or Thud Sinft nay be given a 30-minute  
mea! period, which must be shown on the weekly timecard.  
The Monday-through-Thursday workday for nonexempt employees on AWS is from 7:00 a.m. to 4:45  
p.m.. with a 45-minute lunch period. Scnedules that vary ftom the normal siar: and stop imies or Junch  
periods require management approval. The employee works 7:00 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. the first Friday of  
each AWS two-week cycle: the second Friday is the employee's regular day off (RDO).  
Time Recording  
All hours worked by nonexempt employees must be reported on the timecard as they were actually  
worked and must be reported for the day on which the work commenced. Nonexempt employees record  
each job order number and absence code and must account for a minimum of 40 hours per week.  
including employees who regularly work less than full time.  
Paid time (elapsed time) must be recorded daily. Paid time (elapsed time) ana paid absence time (elapsed  
time) must be recorded in the datly detail, as well as in the “total hours pay" The following  
absence codes must be recorded and approved on timecards:  
Call-In Pay  
Death or Funeral in Family  
Emergency Shutdown  
Family Care and Medical Leave  
Holiday  
Industrial Injury Time Loss  
Jury Duty  
Military Reserve Duty  
Other Paid Absences  
Personal Holiday  
Rehabilitation  
Sick Leave  
Vacation  
"No pay" hours (elapsed time) must also be recorded in the daily detail as well as in the "no pay" column.  
Time less than 40 hours not accounted for in a given workweek must be recorded as “no pay.”  
Elapsed time is recorded to the nearest tenth-of-an-hour, except for holidays that must be recorded as 8  
hours of absence. When holidays fall on a 9-hour workday, employees on an alternate work schedule  
charge the additional hour to personal holiday, vacation, or “no pay.” For part-time emplovees, holiday  
time would be recorded as 4 hours of holiday pay and 4 hours of personal holiday, vacation or “no pay.”  
Deviations from an employee's established work schedule may occasionally be authorized by  
management.  
Overtime Compensation  
The corporation, in conformance with applicable laws, provides appropriate overtime pay for all hours  
worked in excess of eight hours per day for employees on the standard work schedule or nine hours per  
day (Monday through Thursday) for employees on an alternate work schedule and 40 hours in the  
workweek.  
Work in excess of 8 hours in one day for nonexempt employees on the standard work schedule (5 days/40  
hours) and in excess of 40 hours in any week must be approved by a member of line management and  
compensated as overtime. Work in excess of 9 hours in one day (Monday through Thursday) for  
nonexempt employees on an alternate work schedule (9 days/80 hours) and in excess of 40 hours in any  
week must be approved by a member of line management and compensated as overtime. Overtime  
worked is identified separately as "Premium Hours” on the timecard.  
The Friday Regular Day Off is treated like a weekend day for employees on an alternate work schedule.  
Overtime is paid at one and one-half the base hourly rate for the first twelve hours and at double the base  
hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve.  
A paid absence is counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing a 40-hour workweek and for  
computing overtime hours for the week in which it occurred.  
Time off during a workweek may be made up during the same workweek, with supervisor approval, by  
working Over eight hours a day for employees on the standard work schedule or over nine hours a day  
(Monday through Thursday) for employees on an alternate work schedule, up to a maximum of 11 hours,  
at the straight-time rate of pay.  
Travel Time on Company Business  
When management requests a nonexempt employee to travel on company business, the travel time is  
considered to be hours worked for compensation purposes. Employees are not compensated for time  
spent on meal periods, sleeping, or recreation.  
C-20  
a  
t  
t  
f  
a  
F232 €£ 2 €& F €F tf td ft  
it  
### L  
### E  
### L J  
t J  
On regularly scheduled workdays, the normal commute to and from work is no? compensable.  
Nonexempt employees are compensated for airport commute time in excess of the normal commute time  
to Aerospace, airport waiting time, and travel time. Compensation for travel time stops when the  
employee has checked into the hotel. On the return date, compensable travel time stops when the  
employee has returned to the home airport or back to Aerospace.  
On non-regular workdays, the employee's entire travel time is compensable. On arrival, the compensable  
travel time stops when the employee has checked into the hotel. On the return date, the compensable  
travel time stops when the employee has retumed to their residence.  
### SECTION 10. NONEXEMPT EMPLOYEES - BENEFITS  
Benefits for part-time nonexempt employees are identical to the benefits fot part-time exempt employees  
with the exceptions of holidays, occasional sick and legally required coun  
Holidays (General)  
Holidays are defined as seven fixed holidays and a personal holiday that is scheduled by the employee.  
Four hours of holiday pay are provided for each holiday. including the personal holiday. The personal  
holiday may be used as a (partial) day off or in one-hour increments.  
The Corporate Study Assistance Program provides that participants receive full holiday pay during weeks  
of full-time work and partial holiday pay during weeks of part-time work.  
If a holiday falls on a scheduled workday and is less than the scheduled hours for the day, the nonexempt  
employee is expected either to use personal holiday, vacation or “no pay” to make up the rest of the day.  
If an employee has inadequate accrued vacation and needs an extra vacation hour(s) to complete a holiday  
absence, the employee is allowed to borrow the necessary vacation.  
Occasional Sick Leave  
Occasional sick leave payments are based upon the employee's basic rate of pay. excluding overtime,  
shift differential, extended workweek pay, or other additional compensation. Regular part-time  
employees accumulate and receive paid occasional sick leave at half the rate of regular fuil-time  
employees.  
A full-time. nonexempt employee is credited with an occasional sick leave allowance of 80 hours at the  
beginning of each fiscal year. Unused allowance accumulates from year to year to a maximum of 999  
hours. The maximum occasional sick leave payable to a full-time nonexempt employee in any single  
fiscal year is 160 hours (80 hours for part-time employees). The nonexempt employee's allowance ts  
prorated during the first year of employment and when returning from a leave of absence or long-term  
disability. A part-time employee is credited with half the rate of a employee.  
When a nonexempt employee’s status changes between full-time and part-time, the fiscal year allowance  
for the new category becomes effective for the entire current year. A full-time employee who used more  
than 40 hours of occasional sick leave during the current fiscal year and goes to part-time status will not  
be paid further occasional sick leave during the fiscal year, unless the employee has an unused  
accumulated balance.  
When an exempt status changes to nonexempt, the employee is credited with the prorated  
fiscal year allowance for the new category.  
A paid occasional sick leave absence is counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing a 40-hour  
workweek and for computing overtime hours for nonexempt employees for the week in which it occurred.  
A nonexempt employee’s cumulative occasional sick leave charges are recorded in tenth-of-hour  
increments up to the maximum allowance and approved by the employee’s direct supervisor.  
Legally Required Court Appearance  
Nonexempt employees are not eligible for paid time off in response to legally required court appearances.  
### SECTION 11. BUSINESS TRAVEL  
### SECTION 11.1 AIR TRAVEL  
### GENERAL  
The nature of Aerospace business makes domestic and international travel a major job requirement. The  
volume of travel required makes it a major cost of doing business. Therefore, the corporation endeavors  
to use every available means to ensure that actual travel costs incurred are the lowest practical available.  
Travel costs are eligible for reimbursement only if they are reasonable and necessary actual expenditures.  
### TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS  
All travel arrangements are made through the corporate travel agency. This includes electronic tools  
(Web based) supported by such agency. Travel Services and the Chief Financial Officer must approve  
any exceptions to booking travel through the corporate travel agency.  
Airline accommodations are limited to the lowest available coach or equivalent airfare, based on rates  
negotiated with the airlines. This may preclude choice of carrier or airport, require a stop enroute, or a  
change of plane. The Corporate travel agency must make every effort to accommodate traveler’s  
requested arrival times and to minimize the number of plane changes and the length of time for any  
layovers.  
First Class airfare is not reimbursable on Government contracts and every attempt should be made to use  
U.S. flag carriers.  
Use of air transportation other than scheduled commercial airlines and company-approved charter flights  
must be authorized by the cognizant vice president and coordinated in advance with the Risk  
Management Office.  
Use of a personal aircraft on company business is prohibited.  
A traveler's departure airport is considered to be the airport closest to the employee's work base (e.g., El  
Segundo travelers use Los Angeles International Airport, Chantilly travelers use Dulles International  
Airport). Utilization of alternate departure airports is subject to approval of cognizant management level  
4 or above.  
Cost in excess of the lowest available standard coach airfare provided by the corporate travel agency or its  
equivalent is not reimbursable, except when valid requirements are established, such as: when such  
accommodations prolong travel or result in increased costs offsetting the transportation savings; when  
customer support requires a specific travel itinerary: or when the traveler has a disability certified within  
the past year by a physician and approved by the cognizant vice president and the Chief Financial Officer.  
C-22  
i  
i 3  
i  
3  
en ee |  
  
j  
5 idetda ¢é  
{  
ae  
i  
t  
A disability is defined by the corporation as an impairment or medical condition that substantially limits  
ene or more inejor life activities, the nature of which would cause excessive pain or discomfort te the  
traveler when seated tn coach accommudations.  
Make travel arrangements with the corporate travel agency as far in advance as possible te maximize  
savings. The travel agency will provide information required to secure airline reservations, including  
changes and cancellations.  
Caneel unused air reservations through the corporate travel agercy, tien immediately notify Travel  
Accounting, providing them with the “Cancellation Number.”  
Return unused ticket coupons or electronic ticket airline passenger receints.  
Return unused non-refundable tickets to Travel Accounting to report and track further ticket usage. If  
using a non-refundable ticket, immediately advise the travel agency of itinerary changes to maximize  
ability to reuse the ticket.  
File a “lost ticket application” with the appropriate airline when paper tickets are Jost and forward a cony  
of the lost ticket application to Travel Accounting,  
Use the corporate charge card for airline ticket purchases.  
### REQUEST FOR A DISABILITY OR MEDICAL EXCEPTION  
A request for a disability or medica: exception begins with a letter from the employee's doctor describing  
the medical reason the employee cannot fly coach. The letter shouid contain the employee's physical  
limitations and restrictions, medications, and conditions or other reasons for the disability. The letter  
from the doctor is attached to an Authorization to Upgrade Au Travel to Accomniodate  
Disability form (Form 58) and forwarded to Health Services. The employee mdicates on Form 58 how  
often he or she flies annually.  
Health Services forwards Form 58 and the medical letter to the corporation’s medical director who may  
confer with the employee's physician and/or the employee. if necessarv. Jf the medical director  
recommends approval of the request, Health Services retains the medical letter in a confidential medical  
record for the employee and forwards Form 58 to the employee’ supervisor for approval. The supervisor  
forwards the approved Form 58 to the cognizant vice president for approval or rejection. The vice  
president forwards the form to the Chief Financial Officer.  
The Chief Officer has tinal approval on a disability or medical exception request, which is then  
sent to Travel Services with a copy to Travel Accounting to document reimbursement claims. Travel  
Services will notify the corporate travel agency that the employee is allowed business or first class  
accommodations.  
The approval process for disability and medical exceptions may be reviewed prior to subsequent trips, but  
in any case, must be renewed annually. Annual renewals require an updated letter from the employee's  
doctor and an updated. approved Form 58  
### TERS  
Submit, within seven days after return from travel, a TER with original passenger receipts to support  
reimbursement claims for airline tickets.  
### SECURITY AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS  
Comply with corporate security practices when on classified domestic travel (see Practice SE-5-3,  
Practice SE-1-4, and Practice SE-5-2),.  
Obtain approval from the cognizant vice president for international travel on the Electronic Travel  
Request or manual Travel Request (TR) (Form 60) in advance, and contact the authorized travel agency  
for passport, inoculation, applicability of international driver's license requirements, and ticket  
information 60 days prior to departure. Detailed approval requirements for international travel are  
contained in another corporate practice (see Practice BO-6-8).  
Report all international trave! (business and personal) to Security using a Foreign Business/Personal  
Travel form (Form 5575). (See Practice SE-4-3.)  
### FREQUENT FLIER MILES AND AIRLINE CLUB MEMBERSHIPS  
Frequent flyer miles earned by the traveler can be used for personal trips. Travelers who use frequent  
flyer miles for business trips are not reimbursed for the value of the frequent flyer miles; however, the  
traveler will be reimbursed for any fees associated with the use of frequent flyer miles for company  
business.  
Annual Airline Club Memberships in various airline clubs are available to assist travelers in  
accomplishing their travel in support of our customers. Memberships may be purchased through the  
company-established program. Travel Services administers the program, providing enrollment  
information and procedures.  
### COMBINED PERSONAL AND BUSINESS AIRLINE TICKETS  
Combined personal and business airline tickets must be approved in advance by management level 4 or  
above. When applicable, the traveler is responsible for the cost difference between the amount the  
corporation would normally pay for business-related air travel and the total amount of the ticket charged  
to the company.  
Use of personal motor vehicles in lieu of air travel is reimbursed at the lower cost of miles driven times  
the current allowable IRS mileage rate (as published in the annual bulletin from the Principal Director of  
Finance) or the lowest available coach fare for the trip based on information provided by the  
corporation’s travel agency.  
If a personal motor vehicle is used in lieu of air travel, company travel time will be limited to normal  
flight time plus four hours, except for relocations. Excess time will be charged to vacation.  
### SECTION 11.2 CAR RENTALS AND GROUND TRANSPORTATION  
C-24  
3 Bb EP € € 8  
f  
i J} fia ft  
}  
iF Lt J 3  
### E J  
i  
Employees on travel may require use of a rental car, personal vebicle, or public transportation for  
business purposes. The corporation recognizes distinct categories of travel for the purposes of  
determining what expenses are reimbursable.. The travel categories are:  
Local travel - Trips that do not require purchased transportation and are normally within 100 miles of the  
employee's assigned location.  
Domestic travel - Trnps that include purchased transportation or lodging, and are within the 50 United  
States and its possessions in che Caribbean.  
International travel - Trips that include purchased itansportation or lodging that are outside the limits of  
domestic travel.  
Local Travel during regular workdays  
Employees required to commute occasionally to off-site locations in personal motor vehicles on regular  
workdays, including assigned workdays in Extended Workweek should utilize company-provided virtual  
fleet vehicles (where available). public transportation (where available), or personal automobiles.  
Employees are reimbursed costs in excess of the normal cost of ccmmuting tc and from work.  
mileage is reimbursed to employees required to commute occasionally to off-site locations on a Saturday.  
Sunday, or regular day off (RDO).  
Any personal vehicle used for local transportsticn nust be insured 13; compliance with corporate practice  
(see Practice BO-6-6).  
Use of a personal motor vehicle for company travel is reimbursed at the cost of miles driven times the  
current allowable Internal Revenue (IRS) mileage rate {as published the bulletin from  
the Prir:cipal Director of Finance).  
Employees who commute to work by commuter bus, vanpool. or commercizl transportation and nay a  
monthly fee where they are charged whether or not they ride are retrmbursed for the total number of miles  
driven for local travel on company business when a personal vehicle is used. Any credit or expected  
refund received by the employee must be deducted froin the amount retrabu.sed for iniieage.  
Total mileage for an employee using a personal motor vehicle is reimbursed when an employee works on  
a paid holiday, on a RDO, on the 6" or 7" day of the workweek, or is called back to work after  
completing a nortnal work shift.  
Local Travel to and from Airport for Domestic or International Business Travel  
Whenever practical, the employee should use the corporation’s intra-facility and airport bus service for  
travel between Aerospace and the airport and between facilities at corporate oftices.  
If an employee uses a personal vehicle for local travel to and from the airport, the corporation wiil  
reimburses the employee for these miles only when they are in excess of their normal commuting miles to  
and from work (Monday - Friday, except on a RDO). Travelers are reimbursed for the total mileage to  
the airport when travel begins on Saturday, Sunday, or RDO. Travelers are reimbursed for total mileage  
from the airport when business necessitates return on a Saturday, Sunday, or RDO.  
Car Rentals and Ground Transportation Used for Domestic and International Travel  
C-25  
Employees should rent compact or intermediate-size automobiles, and share cars when practical. Excess  
costs for upgraded models or luxury car rentals are not reimbursed. The corporate travel agency makes  
car rental reservations. The corporate rate or discount extended to the corporation by agreement with a  
designated rental agency should be requested.  
Reserve car rentals for domestic and international travel through the corporate travel agency with the  
corporate preferred car rental agency, which is currently Avis. Employees should not purchase Loss  
Damage Waiver (LDW) or Collision Damage Waiver (CDW) when renting from Avis for domestic  
travel, except in Alaska and Hawaii. For international travel, Purchase full liability, comprehensive, and  
collision coverage when a car is rented for international travel. If a collision deductible is required,  
purchase LDW or CDW to eliminate legal complications in a foreign country. Finally, always purchase  
LDW or CDW when a car is rented from a car rental agency other than Avis or is rented in Alaska or  
Hawaii.  
The employee must comply with all car rental insurance requirements.  
Rental car insurance on personal portions of travel is the responsibility of the traveler. When an auto  
rental includes both business and personal portions of travel, the traveler provides rental car insurance for  
the personal days when the liability waiver is not included in the rate.  
Corporate charge cards are used in lieu of cash for car rentals or ground transportation related to travel  
expenses while on domestic and international travel.  
If a taxi, bus or train is used in lieu of a rental car, travelers will be reimbursed for the actual cost of  
transportation.  
Retain all original receipts that are required to support reimbursement claims for charges billed to the  
corporation or the traveler in excess of $15 for car rental and ground transportation.  
Parking costs are reimbursable but parking tickets, traffic citations, or other preventable expenses are not.  
Cancel all unused car reservations and record the “Cancellation Number” provided by the car rental or  
travel agency.  
Return rental cars must be returned to the appropriate rental agency or authorized representative and if  
practical, the vehicle should be refueled before it is returned.  
Personal Vehicles used for Domestic Travel and Rental Cars used for Personal Travel Overlapping  
Business Travel  
The employee may, in some cases, use a personal vehicle for domestic travel. Use of personal motor  
vehicles in lieu of air travel is reimbursed at the lower cost of miles driven times the current allowable  
IRS mileage rate or the lowest available coach airfare for the tip based on information provided by the  
corporate travel agency. Ifa personal motor vehicle is used in lieu of air travel, company travel time will  
be limited to normal flight time plus four hours, except for relocations. Excess time will be charged to  
vacation.  
Personal motor vehicles used for domestic travel must comply with corporate practice on insurance  
liability levels.(see Practice BO-6-6).  
When an auto rental includes both business and personal portions of travel, the traveler’s cost is  
determined on the basis of the average daily cost of the rental period.  
C-26  
f  
i oe 5p oEd ED € J  
}  
Ee t@ Fi 9 Ct 2  
i  
ew.  
res  
a  
py  
Accidents Involving Personal, Rental, ory Leased Vehicles Used on Company Business  
Report promptly any auto accident involving personal, rental, or leased vehicles usec on company  
business, including property damage or bodily injury, to local law enforcement agencies. the Security  
Contro: Center, the Risk Management Office. and ihe car rental agency, when applicable. Invoices  
received by travelers for damage to rented cars musi be forwarded to Risk Management for processing.  
### SECTION 11.3 LODGING, MEALS, AND INCIDENTALS  
### GENERAL  
The corporation is required, in compliance with our U.S. Government contracts, to provide written  
justification for lodging. meals, and incidental expenses incurred during business travel that exceed the  
allowed maximums. Reimbursemeni of actual meals, incidenta! expenses, and lodging up to 309%. cf  
established Federal per diem guidelines ts allowed on travel within the contiguous United States when the  
business travel meets specific criteria. Ailowabte pet diem rates are availakie i: the Aerospace Hotel  
Guide and electronically at hty://infa.aero.org‘corpsery/travelacet/.  
   
Expenditures for meals and incidentals on local travel will be reimbursed onlv if the employee travels  
beyond the 100-mile radius (e.g., from E: Segundo to Santa Barbera, San Diego, Edwards Air Forze Base,  
and Vandenberg Air Force Base) or is required to purchase 2 meal in conjencuon with a contractor  
meeting or seminar.  
Host gifts in lieu of lodging costs may be reimbursed at the rate of $25 per night but not for more than  
$75 per each seven-day period. The cost of host gifts is reimbursed from corporate resources.  
Lodging Arrangements and Meals  
Lodging arrangements should be made as car :n advance as pessible the corporate trave! agenry.  
This lodging cancellations and changes. Lodging accommodations are selected trom the  
Aerospace Hotel Guide.  
Cancel unused lodging reservations and record the "Cancellation Number" provided by the hotel or travel  
agency to avoid a no-show billing.  
Use a corporate charge card in lieu of cash for travel expenses such as lodging and meals (when  
practical). The traveler ‘s responsible for payment to the issuing charge cerd ccmpany for expenses not  
direct-billed and is reimbursed through the travel reimbursement process.  
Timely Submittal of a Trip Expense Report (TER)  
Promptly submit a TER with original receipts to support reimbursement claims for: lodging expenses:  
valet and laundry services, which are rermbursable only for trips lasting longer than four days (clothing  
purchases are not reimbursed); other reasonable and necessary travel expenses of $25 or more: and  
expenses unusual in nature, which must be explained and justified.  
Corporate 800 Number and Corporate Calling Card  
Use the corporate 800 number or corporate calling card for long distance telephone calls when practical.  
Business and essential family-related telephone calls, including safe-arrival calls, are reimbursable or  
chargeable to the 800 number. Telephone calls with a unit cost in excess of $15 are explained on the TER,  
to include the person called and the purpose of the call.  
Reimbursement for Proceeding, Preprints, Publications and Abstracts  
The Library and Information Resources Center reimburses expenditures for proceedings, preprints,  
publications, and abstracts upon submission of a Library Request form (Form 327) and the original  
receipt.  
### SECTION 11.4 TRIP AND EXPENSE APPROVALS  
### GENERAL  
The nature of corporate business makes travel a major job requirement and therefore a major cost of doing  
business.  
Electronic Travel Requests, Travel Requests, and Travel Expense Reports  
All domestic and international travel must be authorized by submission of a Travel Request (TR) (Form  
60) that has been approved in advance of departure with the exception of business travel arranged through  
the corporate travel agency. In this case an Electronic Travel Request (ETR) can be substituted for a TR.  
Business expenses for trips requiring an ETR or TR must be documented and approved on a Travel  
Expense Report (TER). The TER must be submitted to Travel Accounting within seven days after return  
from travel. The purpose and justification for the trip must be recorded on the TER and approved by the  
appropriate line management (Level 3 an above with the exception of some exceptions at regional  
offices). In addition, the traveler's name, title (or relationship to the contractor), dates and places of  
expenses must be documented on the TER. Money due to the company from personal expenses charged  
to the company for air or car rental or for repayment of cash advances is payable with the submission of  
the TER.  
If the trip was a multipurpose trip, the percentage of cost to each program must be identified.  
Travel must never be charged to job orders 86XX and 97XX. Any travel related to labor under these job  
orders must be charged to 9990.  
Travel Approval for Recruitment Purposes and at the Request of a Formally Constituted  
Government-Sponsored Group  
Approval from the Vice-President of Human Resources must be obtained when travel is for recruitment  
purposes.  
Travel, for the purpose of participation, at the request of a formally constituted Government-sponsored  
group is normally reimbursed by that group. When not so reimbursed, approval must be obtained by  
management level 5 or above.  
Frequent Fiyer Miies  
Frequent flyer miles earned from air carriers, and points earned from hotel and car rental membership  
programs, or other travel suppliers as a result of travel purchased by the corporation are considered  
  
fF  
{ 3  
f J  
¢  
3  
1&2 CC 3 YD  
3  
tL 3 € 3  
3  
corporate property. Aerospace has elected to permtt travelers to use these Lenefits for perseral use as  
long as such use does not increase the cost of business travel! to the corporation.  
Travel Advances  
Travelers can obtain travel advances through the use of their sorporate charge cards via ATM withdrawal.  
Employees who do not have a corporate card may request a travel advance by submitting an approved  
Check Request (Form 24; to Disbursements for processing. If an ernplovee is on international travel to a  
location wher: ATM cash withdrawals using the corporate card are not feasible, they should submit an  
approved Check Request for the advance to Disbursements at least one week prior to departure.  
### SECTION 11.5 CHARGE CARDS  
### GENERAL  
Cerperate charge cards (Amzencan Express and Telephone Calling aie issued to full-tirae  
employees in the name of the corporation for use in conducting company business. Employees who fravei  
at least twice a year on company business are encouraged to obtain and use corporate charge cards to take  
advantage of cost-saving benefits.  
To obtain an American Express card, a Charge/Telephone Card Request (Form 129) is submitted by line  
iianagement at level 4 or above to Travel Accounting. To obtain a Telephone Calling Card, Farm 139 ts  
subniitted by line manageinent at level 4 or above to Voice Systems.  
Employees are encouraged te use the corporation's 800 number for placing business calls whi'e en  
domestic travel. Employees who travel to internetional destinations on company business should request a  
Telephone Calling Card.  
At El Segundo offices, gasoline charge cards are available on loan for corporate vehicles from the Motor  
Pool Dispatcher: the card and charge receipts are returned with the vehicle according to corporate practice  
(see Practice BO-6-2).  
Employees who misuse corporate charge cards are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including  
termination.  
### RESPONSIBILITIES  
Employees use a corporate American Express card for such travel expenses as ATM cash withdrawals,  
hotels, cav rerzals, meals (when practical), and transportation purchases 4 Telephone Calling Card ts  
used for business-related telephone calls.  
The employee verifies airfare and auto rental charges indicated on the Amercan Express statement, which  
are directly billed to corporate central billing accounts.  
The employee is responsible for payment to the issuing charge card company for expenses not direct  
billed and is reimbursed through the Travel Expense Report (TER) process. Charge card expenses for  
conference registration or other business-related expenses are reimbursed using a Check Request (Form  
24).  
Employees should not use corporate charge cards for the purchase of personal items or for personal calls.  
Money due the corporation from unauthorized charge card expenditures (ineJudirg direct-billed airfare,  
auto rental, and personal phone calls) must be paid immediately to the corporation by submitting a  
personal check to Travel Accounting.  
Expenditures made for corporate business on personal credit cards are reimbursed through the TER  
process. The employee is responsible for payment to the issuing credit card company.  
Travel Accounting assists in resolving disputes between employees and American Express. Retrieval of  
charge cards before employees are cleared for termination is accomplished in accordance with corporate  
practice (see Practice HR-1-10).  
Retrieval of Telephone Calling Cards before employees are cleared for termination is accomplished in  
accordance with corporate practice (see Practice HR-1-10).  
### SECTION 11.6 INSURANCE AND INCIDENTS  
### GENERAL  
The corporation insures employees on company travel status (including authorized local travel) for four  
times their annual salary, but not for less than $50,000 nor more than $250,000 for loss of life or two  
members (hands, feet, or eyes); or for 50 percent of the principal amount for loss of one member, subject  
to exclusions and limitations set forth in the insurance contract.  
Employees are not reimbursed for the cost of trip or personal accident insurance they purchase to cover  
travel on either a commercial or private carrier (motor vehicle or chartered aircraft) since it duplicates  
coverage already provided.  
When a personal vehicle (does not include a two-wheel vehicle) is stolen or damaged during its  
authorized use for company business and the deductible amount, damage, or temporary car rental  
expenses are not recoverable from any other party, the corporation will reimburse the employee, up to a  
combined maximum reimbursement of $250. for: (a) the deductible portion of collision or comprehensive  
coverage, or for the actual damage: and (b) car rental expenses in excess of the amount covered under the  
employee's personal auto policy.  
When car rentals are required for corporate business during international travel, the traveler must  
purchase full liability. comprehensive and collision coverage. If a collision deductible is required,  
purchase the Loss Damage Waiver (LDW) or Collision Damage Waiver (CDW) to eliminate legal  
complication in a foreign country. This expense is reimbursable to the traveler.  
When a car is rented with any rental agency other than Avis for domestic business travel, the traveler  
must purchase LDW or CDW. This expense is reimbursable to the traveler. An employee who does not  
purchase LDW or CDW may be responsible for loss or damage to the rental vehicle. On Avis rentals,  
LDW or CDW must be purchased in Hawaii and Alaska.  
When an auto rental includes both business and personal portions of travel, the traveler is responsible for  
damage to the rental vehicle that occurs during the personal portion of travel and is not otherwise covered  
under his or her persona] auto insurance or through the purchase of LDW or CDW.  
When an employee becomes ill or injured while on authorized travel status, the Security Control Center is  
notified as soon as possible. If the employee's illness or injury 1s critical, the Director, Human Resources  
Operations, may authorize the use of corporate funds for returning the employee home or sending a  
member of the employee's immediate family to the employee's location, or both.  
C-30  
fd ER € 2 CD  
i a  
Ce € 2 CA LS  
ca ts  
Es £3 £3 CD  
### Ce FLD LS  
### RESPONSIBILITIES  
Employees:  
a. Certify on the Travel Expense Report (Form 18) or Check Request (Form 24) that the persona!  
motor vehicle used for company travel is covered with liability insurance to meet at least the  
minimum amounts required to establish financial responsibility in thetr state.  
b. Report accidents or illnesses while on authorized travel status to the Security Control Center.  
The Corporate Insurance Office provides information and assistance to employzes on Insurance matters.  
The Security and Safety Directorate notifies the employee's supervisor. the Director, Human Resources  
Operations, the Corporate Insurance Office, and other appropriate management personnel when an  
employee becomes ill or is injured on authorized travel status.  
### SECTION 11.7 COMBINED BUSINESS AND PERSONAL TRAVEL  
### GENERAL  
Personal travel in conjunction with business travel requires prior authorization at level 4 or above. It must  
not conflict with nor delay the accomplishment of business objectives.  
When business travel interrupts pre-existing vacation iravel, the corooration rays for the cost of trave:  
from the vacation point to the business destination aid return tc vacaticn or home office wert.  
location. Government fares may be uzed, if applicable for corporat: use.  
If surface transportation is used for any segment of the business trip, the corporation pays an amount for  
that segment equal to the lowest available coach fare cr actual mileage, based on current reimbursement  
rates, whichever is lower.  
Use of a cancellation penalty or nonrefundable fare must be approved in advance by management level ¢  
for cost savings versus company risk. The traveler is responsible for the cost difference between the  
amount the corporation would normally pay for business-related air trave! and the total amouni of the  
ticket charged to the company.  
If an employee elects to combine business and personal travel, the emp!cyee is responsible for costs  
related to cancellation or change on a non-refundable ticket or a ticket carrying a penalty for cancellation  
or change, whenever any portion of the trip is canceled or rescheduled.  
Payments for personal porticns of air travel and automobiie rental are due upor submission of the Travel  
Expense Report (Form 18). The traveler may submit a check for the personal portion of travel with the  
TER or choose to have the personal travel portion deducted from tile TER -eimbursement.  
Timecards must reflect personal travel (1.e., vacation time).  
When an auto rental includes both business and personal portions of travel, the traveler’s cost is  
determined on the basis of the average daily cost of the rental period. Additionally, the traveler is  
responsible for damage to the rental vehicle that is not otherwise covered under his or her personal auto  
insurance or through the purchase of Loss Damage Waiver or Collision Damage Waiver.  
Employees should exercise caution when using an Avis Wizard number to rent a car for personal use.  
Verify that your personal credit card is being charged. In many cases, when personal credit cards are  
submitted for payment, the charges are being billed to the corporation because the information in the  
Wizard profile is connected to the corporate card.  
### SECTION 11.8 INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL  
### GENERAL  
Trips that include purchased transportation or lodging outside of the 50 United States and its possessions  
in the Caribbean are considered international travel  
Travel Requests (TR) (Form 60) for international travel are approved in advance by cognizant  
management level 4 or above.  
Cognizant level 5 management, responsible for the traveler's job order, authorizes Business Class airfare  
for international flights that meet the following criteria: the purpose of the trip provides benefit to the  
Government; the flight is the most direct and logical between origin and destination points; and the  
scheduled flight time, including stopover time for connections, is in excess of 14 hours. Cognizant level 6  
management, responsible for the traveler's job order, approves exceptions.  
Trips supporting civil and commercial business must meet the travel criteria in paragraph 3 and must be  
approved by the General Manager, Civil and Commercial Division.  
Requests to participate in corporate-supported meetings are processed in accordance with corporate  
practices (see Practice SE-5-3 and Practice SE-4-2) and documents related thereto.  
When an individual interrupts international personal travel to attend an authorized corporate activity, the  
staff member will be in work status for the normal workdays involved with the meeting(s) and will be  
reimbursed for the reasonable and necessary expenses associated specifically with that period.  
Security requirements for individuals on international travel (including personal international travel) are  
established in a corporate practice (see Practice SE-4-3).  
Passport, visa and inoculation costs are reimbursed on an authorized Check Request (Form 24).  
Employees on international travel are reimbursed for taxis or other airport ground transportation.  
U.S. flag carriers are preferred for international travel.  
When car rentals are required for corporate business during international travel, the traveler must  
purchase full liability, comprehensive and collision coverage. If a collision deductible is required,  
purchase the Loss Damage Waiver (LDW) or Collision Damage Waiver (CDW) to eliminate legal  
complication in a foreign country. This expense is reimbursable to the traveler.  
### RESPONSIBILITIES  
t  
t 5  
f 3  
3  
### E  
  
3  
i  
EF £2 f  
### J  
i  
The traveler contacts the corporate travel agent ior passport, inoculation, zpplicability of internaticnal  
driver's license requirements, and ticket information 60 days prior to departure and compl:es with all  
corporate practices, especially those related tw international travel, irip and expense approvals (see  
Practice BO-6-4), and associated security requirements as shown above.  
### SECTION 11.9 TRAVEL TO COMPANY OFFICES AND FIELD LOCATIONS  
### GENERAL  
Employees traveling to company offices and field locations on corporate business should coordinate in  
advance with the office or location to be visited to arrange meetings, cransponation, oifice tacilities, and  
other services. Should advance coordination be inappropmiate, the traveler's in-line management contacts  
the general manager responsible for the facility to be visited.  
Travelers compy with visit contro! security requirements (see Practice SE-5-3) and notify the facility to  
be visited in advance. Travel need not be coordinated to a destination within the geographical area  
serviced by the company office or location, if such travel is to a subcontractor or a specific company or  
Ineeting not directly r2lated .o an oifice or location.  
Personnel at the office or location being visited assist the traveler in accomplishing the aims and purposes  
of the visit. including changes in travé: arrangements and other needs.  
Travelers check with the office or location for messages, information, and uther data to the visit  
upon arrival. Coordination should be maintained with the office or location throughout the visit, including  
communication of results, prior to departure.  
### SECTION 12. MEAL AND MILEAGE ALLOWANCES  
Exempt employees required to work beyond the normal workday, on a Kegular Day Off (RDO). on a  
holiday. or other unscheduled workday are eligible for meal and mileage allowances.  
A meal allowance of $8 is provided when two or more hours are worked beyond the end of the normal  
workday shift cr when five or more but less than ten hours are worked on the RDO, on the 6" or 7" day  
of the workweek, or on a paid holiday.  
A meal allowance of $13 is provided when ten or more hours are worked on the RDO, on the 6" or 7"  
day of the workweek, or on a paid holiday.  
Mileage is allowed at the current rate per mile for the use of a personal vehicie in making a normal round  
trip from home to the assigned work location when the employee 1s required to work on the RDO, on the  
6" or 7" day of the workweek, on a paid holiday, or return to an asstgned work location after completing  
a normal shift.  
Exempt employees on an Extended Work Week (EWW) are not eligible for overtime meal and mileage  
allowances.  
### SECTION 13. TRAFFIC AND PARKING  
C-33  
Regulations are established and enforced to ensure orderly traffic management safety at Aerospace  
General Offices (AGO) and Los Angeles Air Force Base (LAAFB) facilities. Parking lots are provided at  
corporate offices for corporate employees, Air Force and government personnel, and visitors.  
All employees, contractors, and visitors driving on corporate property must comply with all traffic  
controls, posted traffic and parking signs, and roadway markings. The maximum speed limit is 15 miles  
per hour on roadways and 5 miles per hour in parking areas.  
Employees who use AGO and LAAFB facilities must register their vehicle(s) with Traffic and Parking  
and display a current decal. Users assume responsibility for damage or loss to their motor vehicles,  
motorcycles, bicycles, and personal property.  
Employees using Enterprise fleet vehicles are issued a pass for each leased vehicle by the Enterprise agent  
at the motor-pool trailer. These passes, which bear no Aerospace markings and are serially numbered,  
serve only as temporary decals for gate access to Aerospace property and must be returned with the  
vehicle. Employees driving fleet vehicles must show Aerospace identification and their lease agreement  
to enter LAAFB.  
Air Force personnel must register their vehicles in accordance with LAAFB regulations and display a  
current Registered Vehicle Decal (DD Form 2220) to park on corporate premises. Systems Program  
Directors must obtain a burgundy decal to park in reserved level 5 and 6 spaces.  
Air Force contract personnel must register their vehicles in accordance with LAAFB regulations and  
display a current laminated Temporary Vehicle Pass, AF Form 75, to park on corporate premises. Atr  
Force contract personnel and contract personnel with an Aerospace-issued picture badge are issued an  
Aerospace parking decal by Traffic and Parking.  
The parking decal is removed from the vehicle and the remnants returned to Traffic and Parking when  
ownership of the vehicle is transferred. The parking decal is returned to Personnel Security on or before  
the last workday upon termination or transfer to another corporate facility.  
Vehicles may not be parked in crosswalks, walkways, roadways, or fire lanes. Vehicles may not be  
backed into diagonal parking spaces.  
Employees located on the LAAFB are guests of the Base Commander and must comply with LAAFB  
regulations applicable to resident contract personnel. Air Force, government, and contract personnel are  
subject to the current Memorandum of Agreement between the Corporation and LAAFB.  
Traffic rules and regulations are enforced seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Citations are issued to  
violators on a Notice of Traffic or Parking Violation (Form 5390). The administrative action taken on  
citations is as follows:  
a. First Traffic Citation Within a 12-Month Period - The Physical Security Manager informs the  
employee in writing of the violation and details possible action if further violations occur.  
b. Second Traffic Citation Within a 12-Month Period - The Director, Physical Security Department,  
informs the immediate supervisor in writing of the violation and copies the employee. The  
supervisor responds in writing, describing the action taken to prevent recurrence.  
C. Third Traffic Citation in a 12-Month Period - The Director, Physical Security Department,  
notifies the employee's level 5 manager. The employee may have parking privileges revoked for  
a 3-month period.  
C-34  
i  
3 f  
cf 3 ¢  
4  
### E  
i  
{  
### J  
### I  
Ed ft  
é  
i  
dj. Employees may request a copy of their traffic and parking record from Traffic and Parking.  
Employees who park their vehicles on corporate premises must remove them within 24 hours, except for  
vehicles in the long-term travel parking area. Traffic and Parking must be notified of extenuating  
circumstances. Towing at the owner's expense may result if unauthenzed or non-operational vehicles are  
not removed after reasonable requests to do so.  
Long-term travel parking is south of Building A6é near the motor pool. Employees who use long-term  
parking must provide their vehicle's license plate number, and prejected date of return to  
Security. This parking area is served by corporate and private shuttle: operating to and from the Los  
Angeles International Airport.  
The administrative poirt of contact is responsicle for tratfic and parkiap at other corporate and regional  
Offices.  
### SECTION 14. SECURITY PROGRAM  
### SECTION 14.1 SECURITY INCIDENTS — (VIOLATIONS AND INFRACTIONS) -  
### DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS  
Employees must compiy with corporate practices and Government security regulations. Failure to do so  
may result in the employee being charged with a security incident (violation or infraction) and  
disciplinary action being applied by management, up to and including termination. The Government  
requires the establishment and application of disciplinary actions when security incidents are committed,  
as stipulated in the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual.  
### SECURITY VIOLATIONS  
A security violation is a charge issued for any incident concerning classifted material that involves the  
loss, compromise, or suspected compromise of classified information; gross negligence in the handling of  
classified material; the deliberate disregard of security requirements; or incidents that are not deliberate in  
nature but involve a pattern of negligence or carelessness.  
Security violations are reported to the cognizant security agency (CSA) and other U.S. Government  
agencies as applicable (Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office, Departmeni of State, National  
Reconnaissance Organization, etc.).  
### SECURITY INFRACTIONS  
A security infraction is a charge issued for failure to comply with established security requirements or  
controls that does not result in the compromise or possible compromise of classified information or for a  
breach or blatant disregard of established security procedures related to the protection of all corporate  
assets that places information. personnel, or property in jeopardy or results in damage or loss of such  
assets.  
Security intractions may be reported to the CSA and other U.S. Government agencies as applicable.  
### SECURITY INCIDENTS RELATED TO NON-EMPLOYEES  
An incident attributed to a non-employee must be reported immediately to the Principal Director, Security  
and Safety Directorate.  
### SELF REPORTING  
Employees are encouraged to self-report all security incidents by contacting Government Security. After  
hours, notify the Security Control Center.  
### WHEN AN INCIDENT OCCURS  
Upon notification of an incident involving an employee, line management reviews the incident with the  
employee and notifies them that administrative or disciplinary action will be taken. A Security  
representative will interview and request written statements from the employee and all affected  
individuals as part of the internal investigation.  
### FIRST VIOLATION  
A first violation requires a written reprimand from cognizant management at level 5 or above. The  
employee is required to prepare a written reply, indicating the self-imposed corrective action taken to  
prevent a recurrence. This is the minimum disciplinary action. Security incidents that occurred more than  
ten years prior to the date of a current incident are not considered in applying disciplinary action. The  
existence of such incidents is considered in the employee's annual performance review  
### FIRST INFRACTION  
A first infraction requires an oral or written reprimand from the employee's line management. The  
employee is required to prepare a written reply, indicating the self-tmposed corrective action taken to  
prevent a recurrence. This is the minimum disciplinary action. Security incidents that occurred more than  
ten years prior to the date of a current incident are not considered in applying disciplinary action. The  
existence of such incidents is considered in the employee's annual performance review  
### SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS  
Second and subsequent violations require cognizant management at level 6 to review and discuss the  
incident with the employee. As a part of the review, the employee's past security record is considered.  
The review may result in the initiation of suspension or termination proceedings. If the review does not  
result in suspension or termination, another written reprimand is issued to the employee. This is the  
minimum disciplinary action. Security incidents that occurred more than ten years prior to the date of a  
current incident are not considered in applying disciplinary action. The existence of such incidents is  
considered in the employee's annual performance review  
### SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT INFRACTIONS  
C-36  
  
[  
### BEDE  
t  
4  
  
i  
9 t 3 t J  
3  
Second or subsequent infractions require cognizant .nanagement at level! 5 or above te review and discuss  
the incident with the employee. The employee is required to prepare a written reply, indicating the self-  
lraposed corrective action taken to preveut a recurrence. As part of the review, the employee's past  
security record is considered. If the review does not result in suspension or termination, another writtea  
reprimand is issued to the employee. The review may result in the initiation of suspension or termination  
proceedings. Security incidents that occurred more than ten years prior to the date of a current incident  
are not considered in applying disciplinary action. The existence of such incidents is considered in the  
employee's ennual performance review  
### SECTION 14.2 PERSONNEL SECURITY CLEARANCES  
### GENERAL  
Department of Defense (DOD) regulations and corporate policy require that individuals with access to  
classified material have personnel clearances issued under government regulations.  
Individuals are permitted access to classified material only when properly cleared and when management  
determines that access is necessary for the performance of contractually obligated tasks.  
The corporation processes the minimum number of personnel ciearances required for contractual  
obligations. Personnel clearances are granted by the appropriate agency after successful  
completion of a background cneck.  
Personnel clearances for employees and consultants are requested through Fersonnel Secuntty.  
### SECTION 14.3 PHYSICAL SECURITY  
### GENERAL  
The corporation is committed to providing a safe and secure work environmen: for all eraployees.  
Physical barriers, security officer patrols, unspections, administrative procedures, and cour: orders are  
used to prevent unauthorized access. Employees are assigned a specific authorization access ard are  
responsible for observing guidance from the security staff and rmmediaiciy reporting any suspicious  
activity or security deviations to security management. Cognizant management establishes and maintains  
physical security controls at regional offices. The Principal Director. Security and Safety Directorate, or  
designee, is the point of contact for review and guidance for regional offices.  
The corporation will not tolerate: (a) threats or violence against persons or property: (b) theft or misuse  
of corporate, government, or personal property: or (c} possession of legal substances or unauthorized  
weapons on premises. Violations will lead to disciplinary action up to and including  
termination, and may also result 1n arrest, prosecution, or other legal action.  
### PROCESS  
Clearance of Employees - Requests for Confidential, Secret, and Top Secret clearances are justified in  
writing by line management before submission to Personnel Security. The justification includes specific  
need-to-know and identification of the project, program, or task zequiring Conyidential, Secret, or Top  
Secret access.  
Requests for upgrading or reinstating a Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret clearance are justified in  
writing by line management. This also applies to new employees with transferable clearances.  
Cleared employees receive a security briefing and complete Classified Information Nondisclosure  
Agreement (Form 312) prior to being granted access to classified material.  
Clearance of Intending Citizens and Foreign Nationals - Generally, only U.S. citizens are eligible for  
personnel clearances. However, an intending citizen or foreign national may be granted a Limited Access  
Authorization at the Confidential or Secret level when in the national interest, and when specific  
requirements outlined in the DOD National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) are  
met. Such cases are referred to Personnel Security.  
Adverse Information - Employees immediately report to the Principal Director, Security and Safety, any  
information indicating that access to classified material by an individual cleared, or in the process of  
being cleared for such access, may not be consistent with the national interest. Other corporate and  
regional office employees report adverse information to the on-site security representative. Examples of  
adverse information include, but are not limited to, illegal activity, drug or alcohol abuse, or excessive  
debt.  
Notification to Employee Relations and Services, the General Counsel's office, and the employee's  
management at level 4 or above is made as required. Copies of required reports are submitted to the  
cognizant security agency and other government agencies. The employee also receives copies of these  
reports.  
Suspicious Contact - Employees report: (a) any efforts by any individual, regardless of nationality, to  
obtain illegal or unauthorized access to classified or sensitive unclassified information; (b) any efforts to  
compromise a cleared employee, and (c) all contacts by cleared employees with known or suspected  
intelligence officers from any country, or any contact that suggests the employee concerned may be the  
target of an attempted exploitation by the intelligence services of another country to the Principal  
Director, Security and Safety, using a Suspicious Contact Report (Form 5559). Regional office  
employees report suspicious contact by submitting Form 5559 to the on-site security representative.  
Personnel Changes - Personnel Security, upon notification from the employee or Human Resources,  
reports any name change, death, termination, or change in citizenship to the appropriate government  
agency. The appropriate government agency is also notified when employees who have been cleared, or  
are in the process of being cleared, no longer require access to classified material.  
Employees cleared at the Top Secret level must report a change in marital status to Personnel Security.  
Representatives of a Foreign Interest - Employees notify Personnel Security when they become  
representatives of a foreign interest, which is reported to the government in accordance with DOD  
regulations. A representative of a foreign interest, as defined by the NISPOM, is “a U.S. citizen or  
national who is acting as a representative of a foreign interest.”  
Administrative Downgrade or Termination of Personnel Clearances - A personnel clearance is  
administratively downgraded without prejudice to a lower level (e.g., Top Secret to Secret or Secret to  
Confidential) when a cleared employee or consultant no longer requires access to the level cleared and  
when a future requirement for such access is not anticipated. Personnel clearances for employees on  
leave of absence or long-term disability are reviewed by management and Personnel Security to  
determine if they should be administratively terminated.  
C-38  
i  
d’ F £E dB € F £€  
t  
### I  
{  
i  
### E  
t  
}  
### E  
j  
Management periodically reviews the clearance levels anc’ requirements of subordinates. Personrel  
Security is notified when it is determined that ain ernployee has not had access to the previously required  
level of classified material for a prolonged period of time, and initiates administrative downgrading.  
DOD has authority to administratively term’nate or downgrade personnel clearances, if it determines that  
clearances were granted in error or are not required.  
Actions are taken without prejudice to the employee or the corporat’on; they do not retlect adversely on  
the employee's present or future personnel clearance eligibility. Indiv‘dua! personnel clearance files are  
noted.  
Reinstatement of Personnel Clearances - Reinstatement actions are initiated by Personnel Security if an  
exaployee needs te have access to classified material subsequent te the adn-inistrative termination of the  
personnel clearance and such need occurs within tw» years fron: the date the govenment was notified of  
the adininistrative termination.  
Clearance Denials, Suspensions, o1 Revocations for Cause - The personnel clearance or access  
authorization of an employee may be denied, suspended, or revoked only by written authority of the DOD  
or other appropriate government agency. Employees whose access authorization or personnel clearance  
has been denied, suspended, or revoked are removed iminediately from to classified material and  
may be considered for immediate termmaticn.  
### SECTION 14.3 PHYSICAL SECURITY  
### PROCESS  
Access Control: Access to corporate facilities is controlled by gates, staffed jobbies, and automated (card  
reader) portals.  
Visitor processing Is pertormed at staffed lobbies.  
Multiple entries (piggybacking) on a single card reader is authorized, but the individual activating the  
portal is responsible for verifying that others have authorized access.  
Coordination for card reader installation, modification, or removal must be made in advance with the  
Manager, Technical Security.  
Container and vehicle inspections may be performed in accordance with contractual requirements or at  
the discretion of the Principal Director, Security and Safety Directorate. Inspections detect the  
unauthorized movement of property. classified or sensitive unclassified material, and the presence of  
unauthorized or tllegal materials, such as weapons. drugs, and hazardous materials.  
Patrol and Emergency/Alarm Response: Patrols of corporate facilities are established and tracked by  
Physical Security in accordance with contractval and insurance requirements. Emergency and safety  
alarm responses are coordinated with Environmental Safety. and cortrolled and monitored by the Security  
Control Center (SCC) and Physical Security.  
Alarm Systems: Security and safety alarm systems report to the SCC. The SCC may monitor Facilities  
Department alarms when authorized by the Director, Physical Security. Installation, modification. or  
removal of alarms must be coordinated with the Manager, Technical Security.  
Investigations: Employees report to line management any incident that may require a security  
C-39  
investigation. Line management, in turn, notifies Security and Safety of all reports received.  
Security and Safety initiates investigations related to situations that involve serious breaches of security  
or have corporate security implication or effect. Examples include subversive acts; theft, loss, damage, or  
misappropriation of property; compromise or suspected compromise of classified or sensitive unclassified  
material; threatening behavior in the workplace: or possible illegal activity. Security and Safety maintains  
cognizance over security investigations and, where appropriate, coordinates the investigation with Human  
Resources (HR), the Office of the General Counsel, and Internal Audit, as required.  
Except for allegations of illegal activity, the accused employee ts notified of the allegations and given an  
opportunity to respond. The employee also receives a written summary of the findings.  
The Vice President, Office of Human Resources, will ensure the proper coordination of activities in  
situations requiring the correlation of investigative efforts among HR, Security and Safety, Internal Audit,  
and the Office of the General Counsel so that the rights of the employee are properly balanced with the  
corporation's interests and its responsibility to conduct a fair, impartial, and effective investigation.  
Security investigations are considered High Sensitivity/Aerospace Internal Use Only and privileged  
information; access and distribution are kept to a minimum.  
### SECTION 14.4 DOD SECURITY CLEARANCE INVESTIGATIONS  
The Corporation takes a proactive role in informing job applicants of the eventual need for security  
clearances and in assisting employees in obtaining security clearances. The Corporation makes the  
following efforts to assist bargaining unit employees in the DOD Security Clearance process:  
l. Employees being requested to complete and return a security clearance investigation information  
form, including those applying for a security update. shall be made aware of the following:  
a. Areas of special interest in any security clearance investigation,  
b. DOD's adjudicative guidelines, and that  
c. Aerospace Security is available to provide limited information and advice in the event of  
perceived problems with the employee’s background, and if and only if requested by the  
employee.  
d. If requested by the employee, an Aerospace Security representative shall analyze the  
employee’s background for the purpose of identifying mitigating circumstances  
applicable to any “problem” area.  
  
Employees who have been notified that the preliminary investigation has resulted in a denial of  
the security clearance request shall receive assistance in the appeal process, if and only if  
requested by the employee.  
a. If requested by the employee, an Aerospace Security representative shall analyze the  
employee’s background for the purpose of identifying mitigating circumstances  
applicable to any “problem” area.  
b. Aerospace Security shall identify those Internet web sites that may provide applicable  
and helpful information.  
C-40  
a  
### BED € FT ED € 8 ED CE  
a  
i  
3  
f  
i Ef  
c J  
3. Employees who have been notified that the preliminary investigation has resulted in the inability  
of the DOD agency to find that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant a security  
clearance and who decide net to appeal may request for the corporation to submit Form 5¢2 or.  
their behalf to DOHA and cancel any further security clearance processing by that agency. Such  
request shall be granted by the corporation and result in the following consequences for the  
employee:  
a. Displaced status for a minimum of 91 days, including assistance in preparing ta seek  
another job, as opposed to discharge for cause.  
b. If requested by the employee, a careful and comprehensive review of their suitability to  
work In the Civil & Commercial Division.  
4, Fmployees who have received a final denial of their clzarance request shall receive  
assistance from the Corporation, including:  
a. Disnlaced status for a minimum of 91 days, tnc’uding assistance in preparing to seek  
another job, as opposed to discharge for cause.  
b. If requested by the employee, a careful and comprehensive review of their suitability to  
work in the Civi! & Division.  
3. The corporation shall not require employees affected by the new security policy to waive any of  
their legal rights to challenge policy DD 254 in a court of Jaw or to file an EEO complaint.  
### SECTION 15. PROPRIETARY INFORMATION  
### GENERAL  
The corporation originates proprietary information in addition to what it receives from outside sources.  
Outside sources of proprietary information may include the U.S. as well as contractors,  
subcontractors, and suppliers performing government and commercial contracts. All proprietary  
information is safeguarded as conirclled access (see practice SE-4 1).  
Employees safeguard, and assist the corporation in safeguarding, all such proprietary information.  
Employees are expected not to misuse, misappropriate, or disclose such proprietary information to  
persons or companies outside of the corporation, except as required in the course of their employment or  
with the corporation’s prior written consent.  
The Office of the General Counsel establishes requirements and administers matters relating to  
proprietary information.  
### DEFINITIONS  
Proprietary Information 1s any scientific, engineering, technical, business. and trade-secret information  
deemed exceptional and distinctive that warrants special controls, handling, or processing. Proprietary  
concepts may include patentable ideas, new discoveries, new processes, business methods, computer  
software, cost and pricing data, or other trade secrets and may be included in notebooks. engineering  
drawings, tecnnical Gocuments, and other items disclosing original work..  
C-4]  
### PROCESS  
All employees complete an “Employee Confidentiality and Assignment Agreement” (Form 2080) at the  
time of employment. This agreement addresses intellectual property and the employees’ obligation to  
protect proprietary information.  
The Staffing Department ensures that Form 2080 is executed by employees.  
Management determine whether information originated within their areas is proprietary in nature. The  
Office of the General Counsel provides guidance and assistance.  
Internally Generated Proprietary Information:  
Employees mark internally generated proprietary information with a Controlied Access designation and  
include, as a minimum, the following restrictive legend on documents to provide necessary notice of its  
proprietary nature:  
“Proprietary information of The Aerospace Corporation.”  
The restrictive legend is applied to the title page and each page containing proprietary  
information. Bound documents are marked on the outside of the front and back covers.  
Externally Originated Proprietary Information:  
The Office of the General Counsel or Jevel 5 management may sign “non-disclosure” or other written  
agreements with non-government third parties regarding the protection of their proprietary formation.  
Such information normally is not accepted from or exchanged with non-government sources until! a  
written agreement governing its use is completed. However, proprietary information may be accepted  
from associate contractors working on government programs without a written agreement, and the  
corporation and its employees will apply the same safeguards afforded Controlled Access information.  
The Office of the General Counsel prepares or processes written agreements when required. After  
acceptance, each document containing proprietary information is marked and recorded in accordance with  
the agreement.  
In addition to any legends placed on proprietary information by the submitter, when received by the  
corporation, it should also be imprinted with a “CONTROLLED ACCESS” legend.  
Employees safeguard externally originated proprietary information from unauthorized use, disclosure, or  
reproduction while the information is used for the purposes submitted. Externally originated proprietary  
material is destroyed as Controlled Access information.  
Employees receiving unsolicited submissions of concepts, ideas, or other materials from individuals  
outside the corporation, whether such submissions are designated confidential or proprietary, shall  
forward such submissions to the Office of the General Counsel.  
The Office of the General Counsel acknowledges receipt of the submissions, requests that the submitter  
complete a “Submitted Idea Agreement” (Form 2084), and informs the submitter that consideration will  
not be afforded the idea or proposal pending receipt of the completed form. The Form 2084 is reviewed  
and with the advice of cognizant technical personnel, an appropriate response is prepared and transmitted  
to the submitter.  
C-42  
f  
a ee |  
i  
Technical data, proposals, or other information submitted by a government agency and designated as  
proprietary or bearing a restrictive legend are treated as Controlled Access. Proprietary information that  
bears a government security classification is treated in accordance with the indicated level of  
classification and appropriate security practices.  
The Security and Safety Directorate conducts periodic inspections of unclassified sensitive and classifted  
material and verifies proprietary information is properly marked and stored.  
### SECTION 16. ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION SERVICES  
### GENERAL  
Employees are provided with electronic communication services and equiprnent meluding Internet and  
World Wide Web access, an internal network, electronic mail (e-mail), voicemail. computers, telephones,  
and fax machines to facilitate the conduct of business-related duties. The corporation relies on the  
professionaltsm, good judgment. and discretion of employees in the use oi these communication  
resources and in the dissemination of information.  
The corporation has the legal right to moniter, intercept, and irack the use of electronic communication  
resources as part of its normal business practices; these activities are not private.  
In general, the corporation does not screen or monitor telephone records, voicemail, e-mail. Internet  
activity, or other communications, but reserves the mght to monitor such communications or enter an  
employee's electronic data files when, at the discretion of management, there is a legitimate business or  
security reason to do so.  
Personal use of communication resources is a privilege, which depenas on the professional integrity of  
each employee. The corporation imay be held responsible for inappropriate operation of corporate  
resources provided for employee use. Employees who utilize these resources inappropriately may be  
subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.  
The use of electronic communication resources, as well as photocopiers and printers, for inappropriate  
activities such as commercial or political activities, adult material, chain letters, or any other use that may  
reflect adversely on the corporation is prohibited.  
Internet access 1s provided for the conduct of company business. The corporation may restrict access to  
specific sites judged inappropriate for corporate use; however, the corporation relies on the maturity and  
good judgment of employees to refrain from accessing inappropriate sites and information.  
### RESPONSIBILITIES  
Employees demonstrate professionalism and ethical conduct in the use of corporate resources. comply  
with network and security procedures, adhere to corporate practices, and protect corporate information.  
### SECTION 17. TEMPORARY DOMESTIC ASSIGNMENTS  
### GENERAL  
C-43  
The Corporation provides assistance and allowances to minimize the disruptive and economic impact on a  
regular employee who accepts a temporary domestic assignment necessitated by corporate requirements.  
An employee on temporary domestic assignment is provided temporary living within commuting distance  
of the temporary work assignment.  
Expenses normally reimbursed are normally allowable under applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations.  
Exceptions may be made but must be requested in writing by the employee and be approved in writing by  
the cognizant level 5 or higher and the Chief Financial Officer.  
### DEFINITIONS  
Temporary Domestic Assignment is defined as an assignment to a work location within the United States  
other than the employee’s regular work location where such location is far enough from the employee's  
residence to make daily commuting impractical and where the assignment is expected to be for more than  
30 days but less than one year. For assignments of less than 30 days, normal travel practices apply (see  
Corporate Practice BO-6-1, BO-6-2, BO-6-3 BO-6-4, BO-6-5 and BO-6-6). For assignments that are  
expected to be more than one year or become assignments of more than one year, permanent domestic  
relocation practices apply (Corporate Practice FI-2-2).  
Dependents are the spouse, same-sex domestic partner, and all persons who would qualify as  
dependents of either the employee or the employee’s spouse or same-sex domestic partner for federal  
income tax purposes. Same-sex domestic partners are only eligible if the employee has filed a  
Declaration of Domestic Partnership with the Secretary of State in California or an Affidavit of Domestic  
Partnership outside California with the Benefits Department.  
### PROCESS  
Reimbursement of Expenses  
The employee submits claims for reimbursement of expenses to the Travel Accounting Department,  
Finance Directorate, on a Check Request (Corporate Form 24). Reimbursable expenses for employee and  
dependents include:  
Travel for One Trip to Find Temporary Living Quarters — The employee and spouse (or same-sex  
domestic partner) as well as dependents under 18 years old, are allowed one trip to find temporary living  
quarters. The corporation will reimburse transportation costs associate with this trip (mileage if the  
employee’s automobile is driven) as well as costs for lodging, meals, and rental car (see paragraph 10 for  
tax information). Should an additional trip be necessary, it may be requested in writing by the employee  
and approved by cognizant management level 5 or higher and the Chief Financial Officer.  
Travel to New Assignment — When traveling by automobile. an employee must drive a reasonable  
number of miles per day, weather permitting. The maximum number of days reimbursed for such travel  
is eight. Additional expenses resulting from the use of longer alternate routes are the responsibility of the  
employee.  
Transportation at Place of Assignment — An employee may use their personal automobile or rent or lease  
an automobile for transportation at the place of assignment. Mileage expenses will not be paid for  
commuting to and from work, pleasure, or personal business.  
C-44  
(  
i  
i  
If an employee chouses to use their personat automobile at the tenporary assignment, mileage allowance  
or shipping costs of the personal automobile to and from the place of assignment is paid. Under certain  
circumstances, shipment of a second automobile may be authorized when a spouse, same-sex domestic  
partner, and/or dependents accompany the employee.  
Reimbursement for the cost of renting or leasing an automobile may be authorized, provided automobile  
transportation is essential to the relocation and neithsr the employee's personal automobile, a  
vehicle, or adequate public transportation is available. Reimbursement does not include the cost of fuel  
used for commuting or non-business purposes.  
Shipment of Personal Effects -- The cost of shipping personal effects, not including household  
furnishings. is authorized up to 1,000 pounds per person. It is the employee's responsibility to arrange for  
this shipping, which will be reimbursed by the Corporation for actual out-of-pocket costs supported by a  
receipt(s) for paid to a third party. The Corporation also reimburses actual costs  
requized) to ship personal effects back to the origina! location at the completion of tre  
assignment.  
Onsite Reatal Exenses - The corporation wiil help defray temporary housing costs by reimbursing the  
employee for actual out-of-pocket rental expenses paid to a third party at the temporary location, noi to  
exceed the following: $1,200 per month ) (prorated $40/day) for an empioyee not accompanied vy  
spouse, same-sex domestic partner, and/or dependents; $1,350 per month (prorated $45/day) for an  
employee accompanied by spouse, same-sex domestic parmer, and/or dependent: or $1,500 per month  
(prorated $50/day} for an employee accompanied by spouse, same-sex domestic partner, and/or two or  
more dependents. In areas where housing rental costs are higher or ther2 is limited rental property  
available, exceptions to the onsite rental maximums may be made on a cas2-by-case basis. The Principal  
Director, Finance Directorate, approves these exceptions  
The actual cost of renting essential furnishings ts allowable if suitable furnished quarters are not readils  
available at the site of the temporary assignment.  
Offset of Maintenance Cost for Vacated Residence Up to $100 per month is allowed for maintenance of  
the employee's vacated residence. Receipts are required.  
Home Visits -- Monthly home visits are authorized when the employee is not accompanied by spouse,  
same-sex domestic partner or legal dependents. If the employee is unable to return home within a six-  
month period, the spouse, same-sex domestic partner or legal dependents may be authorized to visit by  
round-trip coach airfare. The spouse, same-sex domestic partner or dependents are not eligible for other  
allowances, including per diem.  
Advance For Expenses -- An employee on temporary assignment may receive an advance of funds for  
such immediate expenses as travel, lodging, and meals while locating suitable quarters, shipping costs.  
and settling-in costs on an as-required basis. Expense advances should be requested on a Check Request  
(Form 24) submitted to Travel Accounting.  
Reporting and Withholding Federal and State Income Taxes  
The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires that all allowances, airfare. and any other reimbursement  
provided for dependent travel and relocation are to be considered additional income and are sugject to  
income taxes, which are reported on the emplovee’s W-2 as taxable income.  
Many states require that employers withhold taxes from employees for wages earned in the state where  
the employee is working, whether or not the employee is a resident of the state. If an employee is a  
C-45  
resident of one state and will be working for a period of time in another state, state income taxes may be  
withheld in the state where the employee is working or in both the resident state and the state where the  
employee is working.  
The Corporation reimburses the employee (also known as “grossing up for tax”) for taxes associated with  
federal income tax, state-of-residence income tax, and the Medicare portion of FICA tax applicable to  
reimbursable relocation expenses. Tax reimbursement is based on fixed nominal tax rates, which are not  
necessarily the employee's actual tax rates.  
Temporary assignments extending beyond one year are not considered temporary travel by IRS.  
Expenses for temporary assignments beyond one year are reimbursed only upon written approval of the  
cognizant level 5 or above and the Chief Financial Officer. Any expenses so approved will be taxable  
income to the employee subject to withholding tax and will not be “grossed up for tax”. Such expenses  
will be reported on the employee’s W-2 as taxable income.  
Employee’s Tax Liability -- The Corporation's withholding of Federal and, tn certain cases, state income  
taxes, does not represent a final determination of tax liability. Tax hability is determined by individual  
circumstances surrounding the relocation and is a matter between the employee and the IRS or the  
appropriate state agency. Accordingly, an employee who receives allowances is advised to consult tax  
counsel when preparing individual income tax returns.  
Expenses involving same-sex domestic partners may be subject to Federal income taxes and certain state  
taxes.  
### SECTION 18. PERMANENT DOMESTIC RELOCATION  
Introduction  
The Corporation reimburses eligible employee and dependents for expenses incurred in permanent  
relocation to another domestic site when it is determined to be a benefit to the employer. Employees are  
encouraged to relocate as promptly and economically as feasible.  
The length of the employee’s assignment must exceed 12 months. The distance between the employee's  
new workplace and the former residence must be at least 50 miles farther than the distance between the  
previous workplace and the former residence, and the move must meet the test of reasonableness as  
determined by the Corporation.  
Allowed expenses fall under the corporation’s contracts with Federal Government agencies, pursuant to  
the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR).  
Relocation of a new employee from a foreign country is provided only from an appropriate continental  
United States port of entry.  
When a current employee accepts a transfer to a new position, management and the employee negotiate  
and agree on the effective date of transfer to the new Cost Center, which begins the effective date of  
relocation process. Excluding travel for house hunting and relocation, travel between an employee's old  
business location and new business location after the Personnel Status Change (PSC) effective date to the  
new cost center is considered commuting, and costs such as airfare, mileage, hotels and meals will not be  
reimbursed. The cognizant vice president and Chief Financial Officer may grant exceptions to this  
provision.  
C-46  
fF & a £ A OD  
Ea 2 € € Sb t€ 2 EOD  
Cc 2 I  
fat t SB  
  
es  
The transferring employee charges time for house hunting and trave! to the new location to the  
transferring Cost Center and Job Order 9990. The emplovee ts allowed four additional transiticn davs ‘hat  
are also charged to Job Order 9990.  
The Corporation may make exceptions in special cases. Exceptions must be fully doctumented and  
require the approval of cognizant level 5 line management and the Chief Financial Officer.  
### DEFINITIONS  
An eligible employee is a new!y hired or existing full-time, Member of the Techrical Staff.  
Dependents are the employee's spouse, same-sex domestic partner, and all persoas who would qualify as  
dependents of either the employee or the emplovee's spouse or same-sex domestic partner for federal  
income tax purposes. Same-sex domestic partners are only elizible if the einployee has filed a  
Declaration of Domestic Partnership with the Secretary of State in California or an Affidavit of Domestic  
Partezship outside California with the Aerospace © orporation’s Beneflis Departra2nt  
Tre 60/45 maximum is the maximum number <f days authorized for relocstion travet, which includes a  
house-hunting trip and temporary living as well as travel ime from o'd to new destination. This  
translates to 60 days for the employee and 45 days for the employee’s same-sex domestic partner  
and other dependents.  
### PROCESS  
Relocation Completion Pericd  
Relocation begins on the new hire’s start date and on the transferring PSC effective date. The  
employee has one year to complete the relocation process, which includes submission of all expenses.  
Should the employee terminate within one year, the employee will be for repaying the  
corporation the full amount of the relocation reimbursement as described in corporate Practice FI-2-2,  
paragraph 15.  
The relocating employee must complete a Relocation Worksheet. This worksheet is available frem  
Staffing Resources. Any known exceptions to corporate policy must he listed and pre-approved on this  
worksheet.  
The relocating employee meets with a representative from Human Resources and Finance to reach  
agreement on items to be reimbursed as listed on the Relocation Worksheet. The employee, Human  
Resources and Finance management, and the employee’s level 5 management sign the Relocation  
Worksheet as evidence of the agreements reached.  
An extension of the completion period may be requested, at least three weeks prior to the end of the one-  
year period, by submitting a written, reasonable justification to Staffing Resources for review. Such  
extensions must be approved in writing by cognizant level 5 management and the Chief Financial Officer.  
Reimbursement of Expenses  
Claims tor reimbursement of authorized expenses must include receipt. The 01!y exception is for meal  
expenses. The corporation normally provides airline tickets for the relocating employee and dependents.  
Taxes  
C-47  
The corporation reports reimbursement of relocation expenses to the Internal Revenue Service. Some  
reimbursed expenses may be treated as taxable income to the employee. The corporation is required to  
withhold applicable taxes on those reimbursed expenses treated as taxable income at the time the  
reimbursement is made.  
The corporation reimburses an eligible employee, based on fixed nominal tax rates, for federal income  
tax, state-of-residence income tax, and the Medicare portion of FICA tax applicable to taxable,  
reimbursed relocation expenses. Certain taxable expenses that are allowed to be taken on the employee's  
tax return as an itemized deduction, whether actually taken as an itemized deduction or not, will not be  
included in expenses for which taxes are reimbursed. Examples of these types of deductions are loan  
origination fees, dual residence interest, property tax allowances, and mortgage differential interest.  
Relocation Cost Agreement  
The transferring employee will be required to read and sign a Relocation Cost Agreement (Corporate  
Form 146). A new hire must read and sign the Offer Attachment with Relocation (Corporate For 3686-  
A). The corporation requires. the employee to refund all payments that were made for the employee's  
relocation if the Vice President, Human Resources, determines that an employee's resignation within 12  
months after being hired or transferred is within the employee’s control.  
Relocation Provisions - Reimbursement of relocation expenses may include some or all of the expenses  
discussed in the following paragraphs:  
House-Hunting Trip - The employee and spouse (or same-sex domestic partner), as well as  
dependents under 18 years old, are allowed one pre-move visit to the locale of the new  
assignment. The Principal Director, Finance, or the Chief Financial Officer may authorize a  
second pre-move visit. The number of days used as part of this allowance ts counted toward the  
maximum 60/45 days authorized for relocation. The corporation will reimburse transportation  
costs associated with:the pre-move visit (mileage if the automobile is driven), as well  
as costs for lodging; meals and rental car. Reimbursement will not be made for dependent-care  
expenses or other personal-type expenses.  
Relocation Travel - The Corporation reimburses air or automobile travel and meal allowances as  
follows:  
The actual cost of the lowest available customary standard coach or equivalent airfare  
and reasonable cost of baggage handling and taxi fares during travel are reimbursed.  
First-class or business class airfares are not authorized.  
When traveling by automobile, an employee must drive a reasonable number of miles per  
day, weather permitting. The maximum number of days reimbursed for such travel is  
eight. Additional expenses resulting from the use of longer alternate routes are the  
responsibility of the employee. The number of days used as part of this allowance is  
counted toward the maximum 60/45 days authorized for relocation.  
Meal allowances for the employee and dependents are rermbursed at the standard rate  
published in the Federal Travel Regulation.  
Actual lodging costs are  
Temporary Living - Actual and reasonable expenses for temporary lodging are reimbursed;  
receipts are required. This allowance is discontinued when an employee moves or changes from  
C-48  
such temporary quarters into the new, permanent place of residence. The number of days used es  
part of this allowance ts counted toward the maximum 60/45 days authorized for relocation  
Meals are not reimbursed once the employee and dependents are at the new locatic.n  
because the employee is no longer considered cn travel status.  
Home Purchase -- The Corporation reumburses the reasonable costs incurred in connection with  
the purchase of a new, principal residence. The employee must be a resident homeowner  
immediately preceding the time the employment cffer or transf2r is accepted to qualify for  
purchase assistance. Total costs may not exceed 5 percent of the purchas? price of the new home.  
Allowable costs typically include: owner's title policy (if carried on previcus residence): closing  
costs; loan origination fees (determined by market conditions, but not to exceed the amount  
deemed reasonable by the Corporation, and rot including any amount paid to obtain a lower er  
more favorsble mortgage interest rate}. application fees, tax stamps: recording fees, mortgage  
title pchey: appraisal fees; credit reports’ notary fees: survey fees (to ascertain a description of the  
property): transfer feez: reasonable lezal fees for document review: and escrcw or service fees.  
Non-allowable costs typically include: real estate brokers” fees and commissions: amounts paid to  
obtair, a lower or more favorable mortgage interest ratz; geological survey fees, building  
inspection fees: costs of litigation/arbitration; real and personal property insurance against loss or  
damage: mortgage life insurance: property taxes; and operating and maintenance costs.  
Swing-Loan Interest -- An emplovee may lack sufficient cash for a down payment on a new home  
while the former residence remains unsold. In such 2ase, the employee is eligible for  
reimbursement of interest on a swing loan in the amount necessary “or a down payment on a new  
residence. Payments of this type are included in the 14 percert sale price reimbursement of the  
property as described in Corporate Practice FI-2-2, paragraph 16.7.1. The exact terms and  
conditions of a swing loan are 2 matter between an employee and the federal or state -chartered  
lending institution of choice. The loan period may not exceed 90 days. Interest is reimbursed at  
the leading institution’s lowest available rate.  
Dual Residence -- Reimbursement is made for certain continuing costs of ownership incurred  
when the former principal residence remains unsold after a residence at the new location has been  
occupied. The aforementioned costs. when acded to the closing costs described under Home Sale  
as described in paragraph 14.7 and costs attributed to swing-loan interest. must not exceed 14  
percent of the sale price of the property wren sold. Dual residence payments are subject to the  
one-year limit set forth in paragraph 12.1. The employee must submit documentation indicating  
that the unsold residence is on the market and available for sale at a price and that it is  
not leased or rented.  
Reimbursable dual residence costs on the former principal residence include:  
maintenance of building and grounds (exclusive of fixiig-up expenses) not to exceed  
$100 per month; utilities; taxes: property insurance: and mortgage interest costs after  
settlement date or lease date of the new permanent residence.  
The portion of mortgage payments to be credited toward the principal balance is not  
reimbursed.  
Home Sale -- The Corporation the reasonable costs incurred in connection with the  
disposition of the principal residence owned vy ar employee immediately prior to the time the  
employment offer or transter is accepted. When the principal residence is a multiple-dwelling unit  
C-49  
or includes more than a residential lot, the reumbursable selling costs are apportioned according to  
the percentage of the actual living area (e.g., house and yard) as compared to the total property.  
Allowable costs typically include: real estate commissions; closing costs: escrow fees; tax  
stamps; recording fees; reasonable legal fees for document review; appraisal fees; termite  
inspection; and reasonable prepayment loan penalties. These costs, when added to the  
continuing costs associated with the ownership of the vacant former principal residence  
being sold (dual residence costs), will not exceed 14 percent of the sale price of the  
property sold.  
Non-allowable costs typically include: home warranty policy; fire insurance, property  
taxes: fumigation services; costs of litigation or arbitration; repairs or refurbishments; and  
cleaning services.  
The corporation provides a bonus for relocating employees who sell their homes within a  
180-day period. If the home is sold within the 180-day period, the amount reimbursed to  
the employee is 1.5% of the home sale prices, less any dual-residence costs incurred. The  
180-day period begins on the new fire’s start date or the relocating employee's PSC  
effective date. Money paid to the employee is taxable and will not be grossed up.  
Withholding and payroll taxes will be withheld from the payment.  
Mortgage -- The Corporation provides a mortgage assistance allowance to a  
relocating employee if the first mortgage on the new home bears a higher contract interest rate  
than the first mortgage contract interest rate on the old residence. This assistance continues over a  
three-year period. These costs are not allowable for a relocating employee who was not a  
homeowner immediately prior to the time the employment offer or transfer is accepted. The  
formula used in calculating this allowance is: the difference between the mortgage interest rates  
of the old and new residence times the current balance of the old mortgage times three years. The  
mortgage balance on the old residence is the actual balance outstanding on the date the home is  
sold. An employee must provide documentation supporting the mortgage balance and interest  
rates from the lending institutions involved.  
Payment of the mortgage differential allowance is made annually, not to exceed three  
annual payments. The first installment is paid upon completion of sale of the old home  
and purchase of the new home. The next installment is paid one year later, and the last  
installment is paid one year after the second. Prior to receiving approval for the second  
and third installments, the employee submits a written request for the mortgage  
differential payment and provides documentation to verify that the mortgage has or has  
not been refinanced at a lower rate, including any change based on an adjustable-rate  
mortgage (if so, payment will be adjusted accordingly) and the home ts not sold, leased,  
or currently used as rental property.  
An employee ts eligible for mortgage differential allowance only as long as employment  
with the Corporation is continued. Should the employee voluntarily terminate between  
annual payments of the mortgage differential allowance, the employee is required to  
refund to the Corporation a prorated portion of the most recent mortgage differential  
allowance.  
Rental Differential -- An employee who retains ownership of a vacated home in the old location  
and rents at the new work location ts eligible for a rental differential allowance, provided the  
rental quarters at the new location are comparable in size and style to those vacated.  
C-50  
Ea ke FE &@§ 3 EF 2 EB LL Bo EG Dh UO KK OR OM OR OU a UE SD  
a  
### EA  
### LA  
Payments are computed on the annualized difference between the actual rental costs of  
the home and the 2ctual reatal amount received for the vacated home (if rented or  
leased) or the fair market rental value (if unoccupied), based on an appraisal. Example:  
$1,200 (new monthly rent) minus $1,000 (fair market monthly rent of vacated home)  
equals $200 monthly rental difference or $2,400 annualized rental diffzrential allowance.  
The annual rental differential allowance will not exceed $8,400.  
Payment of the rental differential allowance is made annually, not tc exceed three annual  
payments. The first payment is made at the time of relocation, when the employee moves  
into the new rental home. or as soon thereafter as practical. Subsequent payments, as  
determined and approved, are paid on the anniversary date(s) of occupancy. provided the  
employee submits a written request and verifies the continucus rental of the same  
residence at the new location (including any change in rent}, a3 well as retention of  
ownership of the vacated residence.  
AN employee is eligible for vental differential allowance only as tong as employment is  
Should the employee voluntarily terminate between arnual payments of the  
remlal ditfzrential, the employee is required to refiind te the Corporation a prorated  
portion of the must recent rental differential allowance.  
Lease Cancellation -- Reimbursement is provided for the costs actually incurred in the  
cancellaticn of a lease agreemeat co an employee's former principe! res dence. The employee  
provides the landlord vith notice to vacate the leased as soon as possible upon  
accepting relocation. Documentation must be evidencing the requirement for a  
cancellation fee as well as the actual payment.  
Transportation of Household Goods and Personal Effects -- The Corporation pays for the  
reasonable costs associated with shipment of the household goods ard personal  
effects from the current residence to the residence at ‘he new location. Includet are split  
shipments (two pickups and delivernes at separate origins and deMinations), packing or crating  
required by the moving firm, unpacking, temporary storage fer up to 60 days including  
warehouse and handling charges, insurance (reasonable and customary charges), and delivery  
from warehouse to residence. The IRS recegnizes anything beyond the first 30 days of storage to  
be taxable on the employee's W-2. Mileage or shipping ccsts, or a combination thereof, is paid  
for transporting up to two automobiles; shipping costs are not allowed when the relocation  
distance is 500 miles or less. In lieu of 1 second automobile, mileage crly is reimbursed for one  
motor home, when authorized by the Chief Financial Officer. The cost of shipping pets by air.  
including the required pet services container, is allowable, but not the kennel fees, inoculations.  
or other veterinary care or services. This provision does not include the cost of shipping items  
such 2s boats, aircraft, livestock. toxic or flammable materials, guns or ammunition, or items  
outside the normal consideration of household guods.  
Miscellaneous Relocation Allowance -- An employee eligible to relocate receives, in lieu of  
actual costs, a flat amount not to exceed $1,000 for the following: discormnecting and connecting  
household appliances; automobile registration and required related fees such as smog impact fees.  
license and use taxes: cutting and fitting rugs, drapecies 21d utility  
fees, and deposits, and cable TV fees: and the purchases of insurance against damage to or Joss of  
personal property while in transit; ete. Receipts are required for rermbursement of actual costs if  
they exceed the $1,000 limit.  
### SECTION 19. SHORT-TERM INTERNATIONAL ASSIGNMENT  
### GENERAL  
The business requirements of the corporation sometimes dictate the need for employees to accomplish  
particular tasks or objectives at international locations, including specific meetings, project management  
tasks or technical consultation.  
The Human Resources Directorate and the appropriate division administer the provisions of this practice.  
It is essential that the guidelines as applied to a specific individual be discussed with the Principal  
Director, Human Resources Directorate, and approved by the appropriate level 6 management prior to  
initiating an assignment.  
Exceptions to compensation guidelines for each assignment type must be discussed with the Principal  
Director, Human Resources Directorate, and approved by the appropriate level 6 management.  
Exceptions to this practice may be approved in specific instances for good cause. Such exceptions must  
be fully documented and approved by the appropriate level 6 management.  
### DEFINITIONS  
Short-term International Assignment: An assignment to a host country for 12 or fewer uninterrupted  
months, exclusive of the home leave visit, as defined at the time of the assignment offer. These types of  
assignments are further defined in this practice as business trips and extended business trips  
Business Trip: An assignment generally less than 14 days in duration that is not treated as an international  
assignment for compensation purposes. No special provisions apply and the employee will be reimbursed  
for incurred expenses in accordance with corporate practice.  
Extended Business Trip: An assignment from 14 days to six uninterrupted months, exclusive of the home  
leave visit described later in this section. Employees are expected to complete such assignments on a  
single or unaccompanied basis, and no provisions are made for spousal or dependent costs.  
Long-term International Assignment: An assignment that is in excess of 12 months in duration but does  
not exceed five years.  
Permanent International Assignment: An assignment of greater than five years.  
Expatriate: An employee transferred, at the company’s request, to a location outside of the employee's  
home country other than for a business trip or an extended business trip.  
Dependents: An employee's spouse and children, who qualify as dependents of either the employee or the  
employee's spouse for Federal income tax preparation. This includes unmarried children through age 23  
for full-time students, and age 19 for other children.  
Base Salary: Regular home country salary excluding incentives, bonuses, and any assignment allowances  
or deductions.  
Goods & Services (G&S) Allowance: An allowance paid to the employee to cover the cost of goods and  
services (e.g., meals, parking, etc.) during an international assignment.  
Housing Assistance: The company provides furnished housing and/or other living arrangements at the  
assignment location.  
i  
### E  
Et ©  
### E  
Hypothetical Tax: A theoretical federal and (where appropriate) state/provincial income tax liability  
designed to approximate the home country tax burden which would have been incurred by the emplovee  
if the employee remained in the home country.  
Tax Equalization: Company practice whereby the employee pays no more and no less taxes than wowd  
have been paid had the employee remained in the home country.  
Tax. Protection: Process whereby the company pays any tax resulting from certain income. wkether host  
country tax or home country tax (Federal. State, and Social Security).  
### PROCESS  
Selection for ap international assignment: may be made on the of critical skills. educational  
requirements, and factors with the assignment, family size and medi<al  
of the employee and/or dependent(s).  
A Letter of Understanding outlines the terms and conditions of the assignment. Questions regarding the  
Letter of Understanding should be addressed to the appropriate business manager or the Princigzl  
Director, Human Resources Directorate.  
Fxterded business trips are treated the same as business trips with the following exceptions: 1) An  
employee may be given a performanice ‘ncentive for successful assignmsnt depending on the  
nature and/or location of the assignment; 2) In some cases, the employee may receive a G&S allowance  
or a per diem for living expenses instead of actual expense reimbursement; and 3) The employee may be  
required to stay snorter than originally anticipated.  
Base Salary: The employee's base salary ts determined by management, according to the employee's  
sustained performance and current home country position level. Base salary will be adjusted by the  
appropriate premiums and allowances. Salary increases are effective at the same time such increases  
would be effective in the home country following the employee’s performance appraisal and setacy  
review. The employee's compensation will be delivered in home country currency and deposited into the  
employee's home country bank.  
Expatriate Incentive: The company may pay a non-tax protected expatriate incentive based on a  
percentage of base salary in cecognition of the challenge of leaving current tiving aad working conditions  
and adapting to a new host country environment.  
Hardship Premium: The employee may be eligible tor a hardship premium if the host country in which  
the assignment is located ts designated to be a hardship area. Hardship area is a term applied to certain  
locations haviag conditions that are particularly difficult, such as physical hardship, poor environment, or  
cultural isclation.  
Host Country Housing Assistance: The company will provide housing assistance for furnished housing  
and/or other living arrangements at the assignment location  
Goods & Services (G&S) Allowance: A G&S allowance has been designed to allow the employee to  
maintain purchasing power at the approximate level that the employee enjoyed in the home country. The  
allowance will vary with salary and family size and will be reviewed and 2djusted quarterly, where  
necessary. to reflect significant exchange rate fluctuations.  
C-53  
Company Provided Automobile: At the discretion of management, the company may provide the  
employee with a company-leased car (and driver in certain cases if deemed appropriate by the company)  
during the assignment.  
Home Country Benefit Plans: With minor exceptions, the employee will continue to be covered under the  
benefit plans in which the employee participated while working at the home country business unit  
whenever legally possible and practical. For the purpose of life insurance and short-term disability  
coverage, only the employee’s base salary is used for determining the amount of coverage and premium.  
Host Country Benefit Plans: In some countries the company provides certain payments to employees that  
are in addition to regular employee benefits and compensation. These payments are often made to all  
employees in the country and generally occur due to the application of local labor laws.  
Medical and Dental Coverage: The employee and any eligible dependent(s) are enrolled in the indemnity  
plans for medical and dental insurance. The employee should contact the Employee Benefits Department  
to initiate a change in the indemnity medical and dental plans if not already enrolled.  
Social Benefit Plans: The employee may be required by law to contribute to certain social benefit plans in  
the host country. The employee will be reimbursed for any required expenses incurred in contributing to  
such plans.  
Social Security: The employee’s home country often has reciprocal social security agreements with other  
countries. Such agreements generally eliminate the requirement to contribute to both countries’ social  
security systems.  
Tax Equalization: The company will utilize a procedure called Tax Equalization to ensure that the  
employee’s relative home country tax burden will be maintained during the period of the assignment.  
Relocation Assistance: Relocation assistance is limited to an airfreight shipment of goods, not to exceed  
500 pounds per person relocating.  
Educational Assistance: If the employee’s dependent children accompany the employee to the host  
country, the employee will be eligible for educational assistance.  
Medical Requirements: Pre-assignment physical examinations are required and immunizations are highly  
encouraged and may be required. The company will reimburse the cost of these examinations and  
immunizations prior to departure.  
Vacation: The employee will continue to be eligible for vacation in accordance with corporate practice.  
Home Leave: An interim home leave visit of one week (exclusive of travel and business days) to the  
employee’s city of origin may be provided approximately every six months for employees on  
unaccompanied status. Home leave visits will be treated as company business trips and may require the  
employee to report to a company business location. Under certain circumstances, additional home leave  
may be provided at discretion.  
Transition from Short-term to Long-term Assignment: Extension of an employee's assignment beyond 12  
months requires the approval of the responsible company officer. When approved and after notifying the  
Principal Director, Human Resources Directorate, the employee on short-term assignment becomes  
eligible for long-term assignment status and coverage under corporate practice.  
C-54  
te £2 LS  
### ks ta RR Fa Ee OO ULE UE UD UME  
a  
Emergency Provisions: If adequate and necessary medical care is not available in the host country, the  
company wili pay transportation and other reasonable costs to the nearest approved medical facility for  
the employee or family member. Where possible, concurrence should he obtained from the responsible  
level 6 management.  
Compassionate leave may be granted by in the event of death or serious illness ef a m2mber  
of the employee's or spouse's :mmediate family during the international If granted, the  
company provides the most economical round trip transportation for the employee and the employce's  
family to attend the funeral. In the event of serious illness, the employee and spouse will be provided the  
myst economical round trip  
In the event of the death of the empioyze or a family member in the host country, the company will pay  
for the necessary services to return the deceased to the home country and will reimburse the cost of  
reasonat le and necessary host country legal and tax advice requirec by the death. [a addition, the ertire  
faruly will be eniitled to round imp travel ard in-cransit e>.penses to the he 12 country. The employee er  
employee's family 1s rsponsible for all other <x penses  
### SECTION 20. LONG-TERM INTERNATIONAL ASSIGNMENT  
### GENERAL  
The business requirements of the corpotation soinetimes dictate the need for employees to accomplish  
particular tasks or objectives at international locations, including specific meetings, project management  
tasks or technical consultation.  
The Human Resources Directorate and the appropriate division adminisier the provisions of this practice.  
It is essential that the guidelines as applied to a specific individual be discussed with the Principal  
Director, Human Resources Directorate, and approved by the appropriate level 6 manayeinent prior to  
offering the conditions of an international assignment to an employee.  
Exceptions to compensation guidelines tor eacn assignment type must be discussed with the Principal  
Director, Human Resources Directorate, and approved by the appropriate level 6 mianagemmient.  
Exceptions to this practice may be approved in specific instances for good cause. Such exceptions must  
be fully documented and approved by the appropriate level 6 management.  
### DEFINITIONS  
Long-Term Assignment — An assignment that is in excess of 12 months but does not exceed five years in  
duration  
Short-Term Assignment — An assignment that is 12 months or less in duration, as deitned at the time of  
the assignment offer. Short-term assignments are generally longer than business trips, but shorter than  
long-term assignments.  
Base Salary — Regular home country salary excluding incentives, bonuses, and any assignment  
allowances or deductions.  
Dependents — An employee's spouse, unmarried children through age 23 for students and age 19  
tor other children.  
Expatriate - An employee transferred at the company's request to a location outside of the home country  
other than for an extended business trip.  
Goods & Services (G&S) Allowance — A payment designed to adjust the employee's spendable income to  
account for any differences in the employee's purchasing power in the host versus home country, taking  
into consideration the difference in the costs of goods and services between the host and home countries  
and exchange rate variances.  
Housing Contribution — The amount the employee contributes toward housing costs in the host country  
based on a housing norm. This amount is deducted from the employee’s base salary to offset the total  
housing costs paid directly by the company.  
Housing Norm - A statistical average based on government or consultant’s data for housing and utility  
expenditures of the employee's pre-assignment home country location.  
Hypothetical Tax — A theoretical federal and (where appropriate) state/provincial income tax liability  
designed to approximate the home country tax burden which would have been incurred by the employee  
had the employee remained in the home country.  
Spendable Income — That portion of salary an employee is presumed to use in his or her home country to  
purchase goods and services, such as all costs for food at home, food away from home, clothing, medical  
expenses, recreation, personal care, household furnishings and operations, etc. It does not include  
transportation costs, housing costs, income and social security taxes or savings/investments.  
Tax Equalization — Company practice whereby the employee pays no more or less taxes than would have  
been paid had the employee remained in the home country.  
Tax Protection — Process whereby the company pays any tax resulting from certain income, whether host  
country tax or home country tax (Federal, State, and Social Security).  
i :  
Transportation Allowance — A payment in addition to the periodic compensation to offset the added cost  
of a car in the host country.  
### PROCESS  
Selection for an international assignment may be made on the basis of critical skills, educational  
Tequirements, and other factors associated with the particular assignment, including family size and  
medical requirements of the employee and/or dependents.  
A Letter of Understanding outlines the terms and conditions of the assignment. Employee questions  
regarding the Letter of Understanding or this practice should be addressed to relevant management or to  
the Principal Director, Human Resources Directorate.  
Home Country Administrative Practices: While on international assignment, the employee will be  
maintained under the company’s standard domestic compensation and benefits programs.  
Extended Assignments: In the event the employee elects to continue working in the host country beyond  
the end of the assignment, or if the assignment continues beyond five years, the special benefits detailed  
in this document will end.  
C-56  
oe |  
  
### J  
f  
i  
### I  
tC dg f  
  
fee  
rt  
Expairiate Coinpensatior: The company’s expatriate ccmpensat‘or program: is based on the balanced  
equity principal and is designed to approximate the employee's income ard expenditure levels !> the host  
country, based on those levels the employee would have in the home country. by taking into consideration  
the ditferences in host country costs and taxes.  
Base Salary: The employee’s base salary is determined by management according to the employee's  
sustained performance and current home country position level. Base salary will be adjusted by the  
appropriate premiums, allowances, and deductions. Salary increases are effective at the same time such  
incrzases would be effective in the home country following the employce's performance appraisal and  
salary review. The compensation wil! be delivered in the home country currency  
and deposited into the home country bank.  
incentive: The company may pay 2 non-tax protected incentive, based on a  
percentage of base salary, in recognition of the challenge of leaving current living working conditions  
and adapting to a new host country environment.  
Hiardsiip The emptoyee nay be eligible fer a hardship if the hast country in which  
the assignment ts located is designated to be a hardship area. Hardship area is a term aprlied to certain  
locations having conditions, which are particularly difficult, such as physical hardship. poor environment,  
24d cultural isclation.  
Goods & Services (G&S) A G&S allowance has been designed t permit the employee to  
maintain purchasing power at the approxiniate level that the empioyee enjoyed im the home country. The  
allowance will vary with salary and tamily size and will be paid once the employee has moved into  
per..19nent and is no longer covereca under the host country temporary Itving differential. The  
allowance will be reviewed and adjusted quarterly, where necessery, retlect significant exchange rate  
fluctuations.  
Company Provided Automobile: The company may provide the employee v ith one leased host c:-unriry  
mid-size (as defined in the host country) car (and driver in certain cases if deemed appropriate by the  
company) during the assignment.  
Housing Contribution: The employee may be provided with housing assistance at the assignment location  
in order to offset any additional costs between the home and host country rental and utility expenses. The  
employee's housing contribution Is based on the concept of a housing norm for the home country.  
Owned Housing in Host Location: There are significant tax consequences assectated with host country  
home ownership in several international locations. In general, home ownership may cause an employer  
to be considered a resident and thus preclude implementation of tax planning strategies.  
Home Country Benefit Plans: With minor exceptions, the employee will contirue to be covered under the  
benefit plans the employee participated in while working at the home country business unit wherever  
legally possible and practical.  
Host Country Benefit Plans: In some countries the company provides certain payments tc employees that  
are in addition to regular employee Senefits and compensation. These payments are often made to all  
employees in the country and generally occur due to the application of local labor laws.  
Medical and Dental Coverage: The employee and any eligib'e are enrolled in the indemnity  
plans for medica! and dental insurance. The employee should contact the Benefits Department  
to initiate a change in the indemnity medical and dental plans if not already enrolled.  
Social Benefit Plans: The employee may be required by law to contribute to certain social benefit plans in  
the host country. The employee will be reimbursed for any required expenses incurred in contributing to  
such plans.  
Social Security: The employee's home country often has reciprocal social security agreements with other  
countries. Such agreements generally eliminate the requirement to contribute to both countries’ social  
security systems.  
Tax Equalization: A procedure called tax equalization will be utilized to ensure that the employee's  
relative home country tax burden will be maintained during the period of international assignment.  
Relocation Allowance: A relocation allowance will be provided at the time of relocation to assist the  
employee with the cost of establishing a residence in the host country. This payment is intended to cover,  
but is not limited to, the following expenses: cost of selling household goods; costs related to old or new  
residence; purchase of curtains, drapes, blinds, or cleaning and altering of currently installed drapes, etc.;  
purchase of small household items such as linens, kitchen utensils, lamps and/or lighting fixtures; costs  
related to shipping of household pets to the host location; and costs related to preparing a will, which has  
a multiple jurisdiction clause, to ensure the will is probated in the home country.  
Appliance Allowance: The company will provide a one-time, tax-protected reimbursement of up to U.S.  
$3,000 to assist the employee in the purchase and installation of appliances, televisions, VCRs, and  
voltage transformers to convert small appliances to the local electric cycle.  
Home Country Auto Allowance: To offset the cost of selling or storing one or more personal automobiles  
at the time of relocation, a tax-protected allowance of U.S. $2,000 will be provided. The company will  
not ship personal cars to the host country.  
Host Location Pre-Assignment Trip: An exploratory trip for up to seven days (exclusive of travel) may be  
authorized by management for the employee and spouse for familiarization with the assignment location  
and to aid in the decisions to be made regarding assignment acceptance.  
Home Retention Assistance: Many international service employees who own a home decide to rent it  
while they are on international assignment. To assist the employee in maintaining the home country  
principal residence, the Rental Assistance Program or the Property Management Program may be utilized.  
Home Country Rental Housing Assistance: If the employee is renting or leasing housing when transferred  
to the host country, the company may provide assistance in meeting costs associated with lease  
cancellation. Costs considered for reimbursement include securities or deposits forfeited under the lease  
terms, additional rental payments required to effect cancellation, and necessary legal fees.  
Home Country Residence Sales Assistance: In general, it is expected that the employee will be  
responsible for the home country residence. Where there is a good possibility that the employee will not  
return to the original place of work, or where the employee will be on assignment for 24 months or longer  
and chooses to sell the home country principal residence, the company will reimburse the employee for  
the actual and reasonable following home sale expenses, limited to 14% of the applicable sales price: real  
estate agents’ fees; normal and reasonable closing costs; mortgage prepayment penalty, if any (first  
mortgage only); usual and reasonable attorney fees or escrow company fees; disbursements for  
documentary stamps on deeds only; title fees and survey costs; and inspection fees, if customarily paid by  
the seller  
Shipment of Household Goods: The company shipment policies recognize that the employee may wish to  
establish his/her household in the host country on a scale which satisfactorily meets his/her personal  
C-58  
i  
i  
Es fF  
i  
  
### FE F FG  
f € a ft  
t  
### I  
  
Eb € F t  
i  
standands ard family needs. The amount of househcld goods that can be shipped, however, ts generally  
affected by the length of the assignment, availability and suitability of furnished accomraodations, cr  
excessive time and cost to transport the household goods. Normally, for an assignment of less thar 24  
months, a complete household of goods will not be shipped.  
Limited Ait Shipment Guidelines: Generally, the household goods will be shipped by surface  
transportation. Limited air shipment may be authorized to include items such as clothing and other  
immediate needs. Where applicable. the guideline for air shipment is 500 pounds per family member.  
The employee's combined shipments will be insured by the compary for replacement cost up to U.S.  
$75,000.  
Surface Shipinent Guidelines: The company will arrange to pack, load, insure. and ship the employee’s  
personal and household goods to the host country up to the following spectfied limits: employee only or  
employe: and specuse - 20-foot contamer; employee and dependents - cormainer. The compar.y  
will alsu provide for the packing, transporting, and storing of heusehoid goods not shipped iv  
the host location for the duration of the assignment.  
Customs, Duties and Fees: Ordinarily, the impertation of currently used houszhold ziods is allowed or. 2  
duty-free basis. The employee may, with approval, ship new appliances and related items more suitable  
for operation on the available electrical system in the host country. When approval for such shipment has  
been g.anted. the company will reim>urse any duty or customs fees imposed upon the newly acquired  
belongings.  
In Lieu of Surface Shipment: Depending on the specific circumstances of the relocation, it may be  
impractical and/or too costly to ship the employee's household goods to the host country. Where it 1s not  
practical or advantageous to surface ship all of the employee’s household goods, a reasonable amount of  
personal effects and supplemental furnishings may be air shipped.  
Travel Expenses To Host Location: The employee wil be retrabursed for travel expenses incurred by the  
employee and the employee's dependents when traveling to the host country by dtreci route in z  
with the corporate international airfare practice.  
Pre-Departure Temporary Living Expenses: If the and the family are required to  
vacate their regular housing in the home country and make temporary arrangements while preparing  
depart, the company will reimburse the employee for actual and reasonable living expenses for the period  
between pick-up cf household goods and departure, up to two weeks. Living expenses include temporary  
lodging, laundry (excluding dry cleaning), ineals; and incidental expenses.  
Host Country Temporary Living: Upon arrival in the host country, actual 2.d seasonable temporary living  
expenses will be available for the employee and the employee's dependents until the delivery ot  
household goods, or until furnished housing is available for occupancy.  
Passports, Visas, Work Permits: Persons traveling outside their home country normally require passports  
and, in some cases, visas in order to enter the ccuntries they wisn to visit. The company will normally  
assist the employee in obtaining these documents.  
Legal Expenses: The ccmpany will reimburse reasonatie costs incurred to empower someone to act on  
the employee's behalf while the employee is on international assignment. It :s impertant te note that  
although the company reimburses the initial costs incurred in empowering an individual to act, it does not  
reimburse. under this provision, the ongoing time and/or fees charged by the individual who has been  
empowered by the employee.  
C-59  
Cross-Cultural Preparation: Proper preparation in cross-cultural knowledge, insights and skills is a key  
factor in the success of an international assignment. Based on the assignment location, length and  
objective, the company may identify the type of cross-cultural materials and training, including language  
training, best suited for the employee and employee's family in order to make the international assignment  
a rewarding experience.  
Dual Career Program: When a spouse is employed by The Aerospace Corporation and the employee and  
the employee's spouse are both transferred to the same host country, only one transferee will be  
considered the expatriate or primary transferee, for which this practice applies. The base salary of the  
primary transferee will be used for determining allowance amounts, where applicable. Tax equalization  
will be based on the combined primary transferee/spouse’s income using the most tax-effective home  
country filing status.  
Non-Company Employed Spouse: A spouse of an expatriate who is also employed by The Aerospace  
Corporation but who is not transferring to the host country as an employee (i.e. will not be working in the  
host country) will be treated as a non-company employed spouse under the provision below.  
Educational Assistance. The company will determine the closest locally available, suitable school or  
schools for grades kindergarten through 12 which will allow the employee’s child to be able to transfer  
back to the home country school without loss of credit. If it is determined that the employee’s child is  
able to attend an adequate local public school (kindergarten through grade 12) in the host country, no  
school allowance ts provided.  
Non-Resident University Fees: Generally, the employee is responsible for the costs of a college or  
university education. However, should one of the employee’s children be charged higher tuition in  
his/her university within the jurisdiction of the employee’s point of origin because the employee and  
family are not current residents, the company will reimburse the excess fee for undergraduate studies.  
Non-Host Country Dependent Visits: If the employee has children under age 23 attending a primary  
school, secondary school, or university for undergraduate studies at a location away from the host  
country, the company will reimburse the employee for two economy class round trip airfares per year  
(plus incidental travel expenses) to the host country. A child attending a university in undergraduate  
studies must be a full-time student and financially solely dependent on the employee to be eligible for this  
program.  
Host Country Transportation Allowance (Personal Automobile): In locations where additional  
transportation is required for a spouse, a host country transportation allowance may be granted. This  
allowance is intended to provide financial assistance so the cost of leasing a “standard personal auto” in  
the host location will approximate the cost of a “standard personal auto” in the home country, as  
determined by the company.  
Medical Requirements: The company requires the employee and accompanying dependents to have  
complete medical examinations 60 days prior to leaving for the host country in order to identify potential  
or existing medical problems for which adequate care may not be available in the host country location  
and possibly for obtaining a work permit. Immunizations for the employee and accompanying  
dependents are highly encouraged and may also be required prior to leaving for the host country. The  
company will reimburse the employee for all reasonable expenses associated with obtaining the required  
medical examinations and immunizations.  
Home Leave: Home leave is intended to provide the employee and the employee's dependents with the  
opportunity to take vacation in the home country to renew contacts, visit relatives and friends, take care of  
personal business, and get reacquainted with home country conditions. The employee and dependent  
C-60  
ti £4 CER OD  
a  
### Cr £B © PB UR CF SD CA OS a  
i 3  
family members residing in th2 host country are each ertitled to one home leave after every ]12-month  
period the employee is on intenational assignment.  
Holidays: The holidays recognized in the host country are those which will be provided to the emplovee.  
The employee may take any home country holidays not observed in the host country as vacation days.  
Vacation: The employee will continue to be eligible for vacation while on an expatriate assignment. “he  
employee will be eligible for the greater of 20 workdays or the standard home country vacation days.  
Additionally. one travel day cach way will be added to the 2ligible vacation time.  
Family Emergencies: If an emergency occurs in the employee's family while stationed in the host  
country, management should be advised as soon as possible. If air transportation is required, the class of  
airfare may be as authorized by the business travel policy. Unless otherwise provided, the length of the  
leave will be subject to home country policy.  
If adequate medical care is not available in the ‘ost country ard the employee or the employee's  
dependent requires treatment away from the assignment location, the company may pay transportation  
and in-transit travel expenses for the sick person. plus one accompanying family member, in order to  
obtain treatment at the nearest suitable medical facility.  
Compassionate leave may be granted in the event of death or serious illness of a member of the  
or spouse’s immediate family during the overseas assignment. If granted, the company  
provides the most economical round trip transportation for the employee and family to attend the funeral:  
in the event of serious illness, the employee or spouse will be provided the most economical round trip  
transportation.  
In the event of the death of the ernployee or family member in the host county, fhe company will pay for  
the necessary services to return the deceased to the home country and will reimburse the cost of  
reasonable and necessary host country legal and tax advice reguired by the death. In addition, the entire  
family will be entitled to roundtrip travel and in-transit expenses to the home country. The employee is  
responsible for all other expenses.  
Currency Exchange: Currency exchange expense that the employee incurs wil] be reimbursed locally  
using normal expense report procedures. Any adjustment will be based on the home  
currency. This reimbursement covers normal cost of living needs and no private investment(s) by the  
employee. Reimbursement of exchange expense is limited to two times per year. Under very volatile  
currency exchange conditions, the company may at its discretion allow for mere frequent exchange  
expense reimbursement.  
Notice, Termination and Severance: Notice, termination, severance, or similar payments will be made  
only if required by host country law. In such cases, the value of the payments will be offset against  
benefits provided under any of the company-sponsored retirement or similar plans. Such payments may.  
at the company's discretion, be offset against the cost of relocating the employee and the employee's  
family back to the home country.  
Emergency Provisions: In the event of political/civil unrest. it may be neczssary to evacuate the host  
country. In such an event, the company will assume ful! transportation and reasonable and necessary  
living expenses for the employee and the employee's dependents.  
Cash-in-Lieu: The company will not make cash payments in lieu of in-kind assignment related provisions  
such as air tickets, movement of personal effects. etc.  
C-6]  
Repatriation: When it comes time for the employee to return to the home country, the employee will be  
provided with assistance in facilitating the relocation.  
Expense Reimbursement: Reimbursed expenses associated with the relocation from the host to home  
countries include, but are not limited to, a repatriation advance house hunting trip, expenses associated  
with the cancellation of leases in the host country and return transportation expenses.  
Return and Shipment of Household Goods: The employee’s household goods will be packed, shipped,  
insured (up to U.S. $75,000) and returned to the employee’s home country location based on the  
following guideline: employee only — 40 foot container; employee and dependents — 60 foot container.  
Customs, Duties, and Fees: Customs, duties, and fees assessed on original household goods will be  
reimbursed by the Company.  
Relocation and Temporary Living Expenses: Home country relocation and temporary living expenses will  
be reimbursed in accordance with the original assignment policy.  
### SECTION 21. FEDERAL GOVERNMENT POSITIONS  
### GENERAL  
The corporation, in support of the country’s national-security space mission, encourages its employees to  
fulfill the various obligations and privileges associated with citizenship. As examples, our employees  
participate in the Intergovernmental Personnel Act Program, serve on advisory boards and panels at the  
government’s request, and receive supplemental compensation and other accommodations while fulfilling  
their military reservist duty or performing other military service.  
Encouraging such activities, including employment by Federal Government agencies, is in the best  
interests of the corporation and its employees, particularly when such service gives the employee a better  
understanding of the workings of our government; affords our employees insight into the operational  
areas in which we provide technical and scientific advice; or provides the government with unique  
scientific, technical, or managerial skills or perspectives in support of national security objectives.  
Participation in certain corporate programs such as Educational Tuition Reimbursement, the Corporate  
Study Assistance Program, the Corporate Educational Assignment Program, Permanent Domestic  
Relocations, and Hiring Bonuses, require the repayment of sums advanced or otherwise made available to  
an employee if the employee terminates employment within a specified time period after participation in  
such programs. Under these circumstances, the obligation to repay the corporation could act as a  
disincentive to the very kind of public service the philosophy attempts to encourage.  
To promote a corporate environment that encourages employees to consider service in the Federal  
Government, an employee who terminates his or her employment with the corporation to accept a  
position in the Federal Government at the level of GS 14 or 15 or a position subject to the Senior  
Executive Schedule will, subject to paragraph 5 below, be excused from repaying monies owed to the  
corporation because of prior participation in the corporate programs described herein.  
### RESPONSIBILITIES  
Employees: To qualify for relief from the obligation to repay the corporation and to avoid the appearance  
of any conflict of interest, the employee must not have been engaged in any employment or like  
conversations with any Federal Government agency or department, or have known of or anticipated the  
potential offer or assignment prior to participating in the program giving rise to the repayment obligation.  
C-62  
### L  
{  
  
|  
i  
2  
i bt fF £d € a ft  
it  
f  
The President and CEO authorizes the waiver of the repayment responsibility, following a review of any  
potential conflict of interest or other ethics issues by the Office of the General Counsel.  
Copies of approved exceptions, together with pertinent documentation requiring the exception, wil be  
provided to the Principal Director, Finance Directorate, and the Director. Internal Audit Department  
### SECTION 22. HIGH-RISK OPERATIONS  
### POLICY  
The corporation supports a variety of national defense and civil government agencies through its  
scientific research and systems engineering and integration activities. Because of the nature of  
Aerospace’s business activities, the corporauon is frequently invoived in matters of vital importance to  
national security for our Department of Defense customers. The support we provide to these customers is  
frequently crucial to the success of military activities in war zones and other areas experiencing armed  
conflict or other hostilities,  
Employee safety is of paramount importance to the corporation. Therefore, it 1s the corporation's policy  
that neither it nor tts civilian employees engage in military, law enforcement, or intelligence operations.  
Neither doves Aerospace perform work in arcas where there is significant cisk of izjury due to acts of war  
or similar hostilities.  
### GENERAL  
Occasionally, under conditions involving important national security interests, the corporation is asked bv  
one of its government customers to provide technical support in locations that could involve high-risk  
operations or activities in areas that are designated war zones by the United States Department of State.  
The corporation undertakes high-risk work assignments only in the graves. situations and only under the  
most exigent national security circumstances where other suitable alternatives are unavailab.e.  
Operations and activities are considered high risk if so defined by the U.S. Depar:ment of State or when  
so designated by the President and CEO of the corporation based on the information available on such  
operations and activities.  
Where conditions of important national security exist and the presence of Aerospace employees is  
requested in an area where such tasking subjects the employees to a msk of injury or death, only  
employees who volunteer, after full disclosure of all known and potential risks, will be considered for  
such assignments.  
Usually, an employee wil! be deemed to have entered a high-risk area upon arr.val within 500 miles of the  
national borders within which such area is located.  
The corporation does not consider voluntary assignments to high-risk areas in the absence of a written  
request for such an assignment from a senior-level official in the U.S. describing the  
necessity of the assignment.  
All requests involving high-risk assignments received by Aerospace employees must be sent through the  
employees’ management chain to level 6 management, where it wiil be forwarded to the President and  
### CEO.  
C-63  
No employee who declines a request to undertake a high-risk work assignment will suffer any adverse  
employment consequences as a result.  
An exception to the corporation’s general policy may only be made by the mutual agreement of the  
Aerospace employee and the President and CEO of the corporation.  
### RESPONSIBILITIES  
The General Counsel:  
Prepares an acknowledgement detailing all known or potential risks inherent in undertaking the high-risk  
assignment and meets with the employees to go over the terms of the employee's written consent,  
answering questions the employee may have concerning its terms.  
The Human Resources Department:  
Coordinates with Risk Management and provides the employee with an analysis in writing of all  
Aerospace benefits that may apply in such situations. including Workers’ Compensation, life insurance,  
accident insurance, short-term or long-term disability programs, and like benefits.  
Due to the nature of certain high-risk operations, including war hazards, certain federal laws, specifically  
the Defense Base Act and the War Hazards Compensation Act, may cover compensation and benefits  
available to Aerospace employees on such assignments. Accordingly, the corporation’s Policies and  
Practices will be interpreted in a manner meeting or exceeding those federal! laws.  
Informs the employee of the specific benefits to which eligible or designated dependents may be entitled  
to in the event of the employee’s disability, detention, or death while on a high-risk assignment. These  
benefits may include Worker’s Compensation, short-term and long-term disability, life insurance, group  
travel, and personal accident insurance. Certain Aerospace benefit plans have specific exclusions for  
injuries or death as a result of “declared or undeclared war or an act of either.”  
Reviews individual plan documents with the employee as part of obtaining the employee’s informed  
consent.  
The Principal Director, Security and Safety:  
Advises the employee of all applicable Aerospace security and safety regulations and any know special  
security and safety procedures that may be present at the assignment area that may affect personal safety.  
The Principal Directory determines whether there are any special handling requirements for any classified  
or Sensitive materials over which the employee may have custody.  
The Aerospace Employee:  
Volunteers, after full disclosure of all known and potential risks and impacts to employee benefits, to  
accept an assignment to a high-risk operation.  
Accepts responsibility for all personal preparatory activities, such as obtaining any necessary or advisable  
health examinations and immunizations; obtaining any required briefings and or training for the  
assignment; preparing personal emergency documents, such as a health care directive and power of  
attorney, as well as estate planning documents such as a living trust or will; making arrangements for  
automatic payroll deposits: updating insurance and benefit plan beneficiary designations: reviewing and  
C-64  
### I  
t  
cE a  
(  
fae  
3  
### I  
i  
understanding the known and potential risks of the assignment ; and arranging a personal meeting with  
the General Counsei tc go over the terms of the emplovee’s written consent and asking any questions the  
employee may have concerning its terms.  
Signs a written acknowledgement prepared by the Office of the General Counsel acknowledging that  
he/she has received from the company all information regarding the known risks of the assignment as  
well as the implications of the assignment for his/her personal or family situation. The acknowledgment  
must explicitly state that the assignment is entirely voluntary and that the employee is aware that he’she 's  
free to decline to volunteer for the assignment and that there will be no adverse employment action taken  
as a result of so declining.  
Computes with all corporate practices espectally those related to miernationa! travel (see Practice BO-6-  
trip and expense approvals (see Practice BO-6-4, and assoctated security requirements (see Practice  
SE-4-3).  
May independently terminate a high-risk assignment without negative after accepting such  
an assignment and being deployed in a high-risk area, if such employee determines in his/her sole  
discretion, that the risk of injury cr death asscciated with continuing in that assignment is unacceptable.  
The Corporation:  
Reimburses the employee for the cost of advisable and required health 2xarminations ard immunizations.  
Continues the employee’s pay should the employee become injured as a resu!t of a war hazard (as defined  
by applicable law), notwithstanding any exclusionary language in Aerospac2's short-term and long-tenn  
disability plans. Pay will continue consistent with the terms of the short-term and long-term disability  
plans, relevant practices, and Summary Plan Descriptions in ettect at the time of the injury less any  
monies received by the employee under applicable Worker's Corapensation statutes.  
Provides the pay to the designated or eligible dependents should the employee become  
captured or detained (as defined by applicable law) for the length of the cetention or until the employee’s  
death is established or can be legally presumed to have occurred; this pay will be less any monies  
received by the employee's dependents under the War Hazards Compensation Act  
Exercises its best efforts and works with the U.S. Government or other appropriate authorities to remove  
an employee from a high-risk area for an acceptable lower-risk area or, at the employee's request, returns  
him or her to the employee’s usual place of employment upon revocation of the consent to  
remain in a high-risk operation.  
Pays the full premium, in the event of the employee's death, for continued medical and dental coverage  
for eligible dependents.  
C-65  
### APPENDIX D  
### WORK ABSENCES  
### SECTION 1. HOLIDAYS  
The corporation observes eight 8-hour holidays each year. and except in special circumstances,  
employees are not expected to work on these days. One is a “personal holiday and may be  
scheduled any time during the fiscal year (October | - September 30). The eight holidays are:  
New Year's Day.  
Presidents’ Day,  
Memonal Day,  
Independence Day.  
Labor Day.  
Thanksgiving Day,  
Christmas Day.  
and the personal floating holiday.  
Holidays occurring on a weekend are observed on Friday preceding a Saturday holiday or on Mondav  
following a Sunday holiday. When a holiday falls on a Friday and it is a regular day off for employees on  
an alternate work schedule, employees take the preceding Thursday as the holiday.  
A holiday occurring during a vacation or a period of paid sick leave is to be paid as a holiday.  
When a holiday falls on a nine-hour workday (Monday through Thursday), employees on an alternate  
work schedule charge the additional hour to personal holiday or vacation, or may make up the  
hour in the same workweek.  
An employee is eligible to receive holiday pay if hired prior to the scheduled holiday and in active pay  
status. Holiday pay for regular and temporary full-time employees in active pay status is one day's pay.  
Holiday pay for part-time employees, both regular and temporary, is four hours pay at the employee's  
normal rate of pay, regardless of work schedule, except for graduate fellows and work/study program  
participants.  
Graduate fellows and work-study program participants work full time when classes are not in session. If  
corporate-paid holidays occur during such full-time workweeks, a program participant receives eight  
hours pay for the holiday. If the corporate-paid holiday occurs when the participant is working part time,  
holiday pay is four hours.  
Personal floating holidays are not cumulative from year to year. Employees will be paid for unused  
Personal floating holiday hours at the end of the fiscal year. Employees may only take one personal  
floating holiday in a fiscal year. This holiday is tracked on a fiscal year basis and may be taken in one-  
hour increments.  
Full-time employees have eight hours of personal holiday time and part-time employees have four hours  
of personal holiday time.  
If an employee terminates during the fiscal year and has not used the personal floating holiday, the  
employee will be paid for the holiday.  
An employee who experiences a status change from temporary or casual to regular during the fiscal year  
will be entitled to a personal floating holiday.  
An employee who experiences a status change from part time to full time will receive four additional  
personal holiday hours.  
An employee who experiences a status change from full time to part time will retain the eight personal  
holiday hours if the hours have not been taken.  
An employee who experiences a status change from regular full time or part time to temporary or casual  
during the fiscal year and has not used the personal floating holiday will be paid for the holiday.  
A paid holiday absence is counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing a 40-unit workweek and  
for computing compensation for exempt employees on extended workweek (see Practice HR-2-4).  
Employment shall! not become effective on a scheduled holiday. Terminations may become effective on a  
scheduled holiday.  
### SECTION 2. VACATION  
The Corporation provides paid vacation for full-time bargaining unit employees and for part-time  
bargaining unit employees in proportion to the hours worked. The vacation is earned (accrued) by  
eligible employees at the following annual rates:  
Days Earned Days Earned  
Employment (Employees Hired (Employees Hired or  
Period Before 1/1/93) on or After 1/1/93  
First 3 years’ 15 days (120 hrs) 15 days (120 hrs)  
After 3 years 20 days (160 hrs) 15 days (120 hrs)  
After 5 years 20 days (160 hrs) 20 days (160 hrs)  
After 20 years 25 days (200 hrs) 20 days (160 hrs)  
Previous periods of employment for rehired employees in other than Temporary or Casual status are  
counted cumulatively to determine applicable vacation earning rates.  
Employees are allowed to accumulate unused vacation hours up to the following maximums:  
Days Earned Days Earned  
Employment (Employees Hired (Employees Hired or Rehired  
Period Before 1/1/93) on or After 1/1/93)  
First 3 years 270 hrs 270 hrs  
After 3 years 360 hrs 270 hrs  
After 5 years 360 hrs 360 hrs  
Earned vacation is available for the employee’s utilization as it 1s accrued.  
‘Does not include reinstated employees hired before 1-1-93.  
* Effective 1/1/01  
Does not include reinstated employees hired before 1-1-92  
D-2  
{  
$f} € 3 f  
i 2 f  
3  
f  
i J  
j  
{  
fd ¢ FY € a € 3  
{ i  
i  
Vacation credit accrues during compensated time while employees are 1 Active employment status.  
Accrual of vacation stops when employees accumulate the maximum specified, but commences 2egain  
when the maximum accumulation is reduced by any number of vacation hours taken.  
If an employee is required by management to cancel or postpone scheduled vacation thereby reaching or  
exceeding the maximum accrual, level 5 management shall authorize a waiver of the accrual limitation so  
that vacation time may continue to accrue up to a temporary maximum of 400 hours. Successive w2ivers  
or extensions may be granted prior to or upon completion of the current waiver.  
Fcllowing termination of the vacation accrual limita.ion waiver, the employee is allowed three (3) months  
in which to utilize any excess accrued vacation (i.2., mere than the norma! of 270/360 hours)  
Subsequent to this three month period and provided that the vacation accrual limitation waiver is not  
renewed, no additioz.al vacation will accrue in excess of the normal mcxtmum of 270/260 hours.  
Vacation is not accrued or earned during any period of “No-Pay” absence; however, accrual ts resumed  
‘hea compensation is resumed.  
Employees do not continue to earn paid credit while on Leave of Absence or Long-term Disability.  
However, atter employees return from such leave, the first 13 weeks of the leave count as contmuous  
employment when determining the applicable rate of vacation earnings. For miiiitary reserve active duty,  
the total absence counts as continuous employment.  
Casual and Temporary employees do not earn vacation. However, if Temporary employees change te  
Regular status without interruption, the temporary periods are counted as Regular employment for  
vacation accrual, and the employees’ vacation accounts are credited retroactively and prorated based on  
hours worked; credited vacation hours cannot exceed 120.  
At its discretion, the Corporation may declare periods of corporate shutdown such as a holiday closure.  
The employee may elect to take vacation or no pay. The employee may receive an advance of unearned  
vacation time if the employee has not accrued sufficient vacation time to accommodate the shutdown  
period. In the event of a corporate shutdown not exceeding five consecutive (5) days, the employee may  
elect to utilize unearned vacation. Use of vacaiion in advance of accrual for other than a corporate  
shutdown requires prior approval by management level 4 or above and should not exceed one-half of the  
annual accrual rate within a 12-month period.  
### SECTION 3. SICK LEAVE  
Regular and temporary employees are eligible for sick leave from the time employment starts. The two  
forms of sick leave are occasional and supplemental.  
Occasional sick leave provides for full pay for brief periods up to five consecutive workdays for reasons  
of personal illness or medical examinations.  
Supplemental sick leave applies for a period of time greater than five consecutive workdays. Doctor's  
certificates may be required. Supplemental sick leave may continue to a maximum of 26 weeks at which  
time Long Term Disability is invoked. Payments are based on the basic pay rate and 40-hour workweek  
after accounting for any payments trom California State Disability Insurance that may apply to employees  
with work locations in California.  
Full-time employees receive supplemental sick leave payments for 40 hours ot leave per week. Part-time  
employees receive supplemental sick leave payments according to the employee's scheduled workweek.  
Supplemental sick leave benefit payments may be discontinued if a physician’s certification is not  
received by the appropriate insurance carrier and Employee Benefits.  
Workers’ compensation provides benefits for a work-related illness or injury. Benefits begin on the fourth  
calendar day of a doctor-certified, non-hospitalization disability or on the first day of hospitalization.  
Jilnesses or injuries must be reported immediately to the corporate nurse.  
### SECTION 4. JURY DUTY  
Regular full- and part-time employees are authorized a maximum of ten days of paid absence each time  
they are called to perform jury duty. Following completion of that service, 12 months must elapse before  
an employee is again eligible to be paid for absence to perform jury duty.  
The corporation pays the employee's base rate for time taken from scheduled work hours for jury duty,  
including jury selection.  
Timecards reflect scheduled work time spent at court. Time spent on jury duty is counted as hours worked  
for computing a 40-hour workweek and for computing overtime hours for nonexempt employees for the  
week in which it occurred (see Practice HR-1-9). Time spent on jury duty is counted as hours worked for  
computing a 40-unit workweek and for computing compensation for exempt employees on Extended  
Workweek (see Practice HR-2-4).  
The Friday regular day off (RDO) for employees on an alternate work schedule is treated like a weekend  
day. No additional compensation will be paid to employees asked to appear for jury duty on their RDO.  
### SECTION 5. MILITARY RESERVE ACTIVE DUTY  
### GENERAL  
The Corporation provides compensation and benefits for regular full-time and part-time employees who  
serve as active members in reserve components of the U.S. Armed Forces, consisting of the Army, Navy,  
Air Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard Reserve plus the state-organized Army and Air National  
Guards, the Public Health Services Corps, or any other category of persons designated by the President in  
time of war or national emergency.  
Active military duty includes scheduled annual military training and active military service resulting from  
an Executive Order issued by the President of the United States or action by the U.S. Congress or when  
volunteering for active duty while such a call-up is in force.  
Scheduled Annual Military Training  
Time off for scheduled annual military training is provided as a paid absence during which all corporate  
benefits and employee entitlements remain in force. Absences may not exceed a total of 10 workdays per  
calendar year unless, in response to the employee's written request, additional time off has been approved  
by the appropriate level 6 vice president.  
Employees notify supervision of scheduled annual training dates at least 10 workdays before departure and  
provide supervision with a copy of the Military Orders.  
D-4  
f§ 3 ii  
3  
{  
i 3  
{  
i  
  
t  
}  
3  
>td  
i  
{  
i  
i i  
=mployees provide Payroll with a copy of Military Orders and first and last military pay vouchers upon  
return to work. Payroll deducts an amount equal to the military base nay received for the period of active  
duty served from subsequent corporate paycheck(s).  
Employees submit 2 completed Military Service Informetion form (Fonr -4783) to the Employee Benefits  
Department.  
Active Military Service  
Military Reservist’s Leave (MRL) shall be granted to any employee whose absence from work is  
necessitated by active military service as defined above.  
When called to active duty by Presidential directive, Cengressional action. or when volunteering for active  
duty while such a call-up ts in force, employee reservists remain in their current Cost Center Code (CCC)  
for the first 180 dzys and "M" is charged on their timeecard. After [80 days, employee reservists will be  
moved to the Military Reservists’ Leave CCC. MRL commences on the first day of absence and continues  
until work is resumed or a determination is made that the individual is ineligible for reinstatement. MRL  
m:t¥ be interrupted by occasional periods of act'v2 corporate employment ef not less than one day. MRL  
restarts for en employee reservist recalled to active duty subsequent to celease from an earlier peniod of  
service,  
Employees give supervision the earliest notification possible of the date active duty is expected to  
commence and provide a copy of the Military Orders when available.  
MRL is not to exceed a cumulative length of five years. except where further duty is required by  
Presidential or Congressional order or deemed necessary by the Secretary of Defense. (Scheduled annual  
military training is not counted as part of the 5-year cumulative total.)  
Employees on MRL receive the following corporate benefits:  
1, Supplemental pay for the first 180 days to ensure that total military pay (including military base  
pay and housing and subsistence allowances) and the supplemental pay equal the amount of the  
employee's regular base salary.  
tw  
Medical benetits for the employee and eligible dependents for the first 180 days. Premium cost  
sharing applies for the first 180 days. After 180 days, eligible employees are given the option of  
continuing medical coverage at 100 percent of the full premium up to an additional 18 months to  
run concurrently with COBRA,  
3. Dental and vision benefits for the employee and eligible dependents for the duration of MRL.  
Premium cost sharing applies for the first 180 days; the corporation bears the full cost after 180  
days.  
4, Continued participation in the Flexible Spending Account (FSA) based on the employee's  
supplemental pay for the duration of the MRL, with participation continuing until the end of the  
calendar year.  
5. Corporate-paid life insurance for the first 180 days. with conversion options available after !80  
days.  
6, Optional employee-paid life insurance and dependent life insurance for the first 180 days, with  
conversion options available after 180 days.  
D-5  
10.  
}2  
Survivor's Income Benefit (SIB) for the first 180 days for existing participants.  
Credit for service as provided by federal statutes, regulations, case law, and the provisions of the  
Aerospace Employees' Retirement Plan (AERP). AERP participants accrue pension benefits based  
on the employee's regular salary for the duration of the MRL.  
Credit for service as provided by tederal statutes, regulations, case law, and the provisions of the  
Aerospace Savings Account Plan (ASAP). ASAP participants receive the company's contribution  
of 8% of the employee's regular salary for the duration of the MRL.  
Continued participation in the Voluntary Annuity/Account Plan (VA/AP) based on the employee's  
supplemental pay for the duration of the MRL. Contact the carrier directly to make arrangements  
for suspension of loan payments. Upon return from MRL, the employee can make up salary  
deferrals missed during MRL.  
Accrued vacation hours based on corporate service, calculated through the last full week of  
employment, paid or retained in the employee's vacation account. Employees on MRL continue to  
receive service credit toward higher increments of annual vacation; however, no actual vacation  
hours will be earned.  
Reimbursement for education expenses incurred prior to the MRL for employees enrolled in pre-  
approved courses.  
Aerospace will reemploy reservists seeking reinstatement unless the corporation's circumstances have so  
changed as to make reemployment impossible or unreasonable.  
Employee-reservists may apply for reinstatement with the corporation by contacting the Employee  
Relations Department within the following time limits:  
I.  
In the case of an employee whose period of service was for less than 31 days, by submitting an  
application not later than two work days after completion of the period of service.  
In the case of an employee whose period of service was for more than 30 days but less than 181  
days, by submitting an application not later than 14 calendar days after completion of the period of  
service.  
In the case of an employee whose period of service was for more than 180 days, by submitting an  
application not later than 90 calendar days after completion of the period of service.  
Should the reservist be disabled at the completion of service due to performance of reservist duty,  
the application should be made at the end of the recovery period. Reinstatement is at the  
discretion of the corporation if the disability exceeds two years.  
Failure to report within the specified time requirements may result in termination.  
Employees on MRL who have been granted a release under honorable conditions from active duty will be  
reinstated to their former position or one of similar status, seniority, and pay, adjusted for any automatic  
pay increases that may have occurred. Reinstatement of employees returning from MRL who have been  
granted a release from active duty under other than honorable conditions will be considered on an  
individual basis.  
D-6  
{  
3  
iF €  
3  
i  
### J  
  
4  
i  
Fg  
]  
i  
2  
£  
Ff £ SE  
}  
f  
i  
Reinstated employees will have all corporate benetits restored. Employees should contact the Employee  
Benetits Department upon returning to work.  
Employees returning from MRL are legally protected frorn termination during the first year following jub  
reinstalement, excepting discharge for cause.  
### SECTION 6. OTHER ABSENCES  
The corporation recognizes that employees are subject to emergencies or family related matters that  
justify brief absences trom work. Depending on the circumstances. it is appropriate for supervisors to  
approve this time as a paid absence or unpaid absence, and to verify accuracy of trmecard data.  
Faid absences for annual military reserve duty (HR-3-5), industrial injury holidays (HR-3-2).  
jury duty (HR-3-1), rehabilitation (HR-3-6), and vacation (HR-3-3) are covered in corporate practices.  
Employees should also refer to HR-3-8 for absences that will be greater than 2 weeks but less than one  
year. Unpaid leaves of absence are also covered in a corporate practice. Supplemental Sick Leave is  
covered in the Human Resources Occasional Sick Leave Plan  
(http://info.aero.org/hr/benefits/sickLeave.pdf). A paid absence is counted as hours worked for the  
purpose of computing a 40-hour workweek and for computing overtime hours for nonexempt employees  
for the week in which it occurred. A paid absence is counted as hours worked for the purpose of  
computing a 40-unit workweek and for computing compensation for exempt employees on extended  
workweek.  
Exempt full-tume employees record no-pay absences in whole-day increments. Exempt part-time  
employees record no-pay absences in scheduled whole workday increments. Nonexempt full- and part-  
time employees record no pay in tenth-of-an-hour increments. Fractions of an hour are recorded as  
decimals: e.g., 6 minutes = 0.1 and 30 minutes = 0.5. No-pay hours are recorded as “N” on the timecard.  
This practice is subject to applicable federal and state laws. Employee Relations provides assistance and  
answers employee questions on absences discussed in this practice.  
### PAID ABSENCES  
Bereavement is a paid absence in the event of a death in an immediate family of up to three  
workdays. If the employee needs more time to travel to the funeral site, up to five workdays of absence  
may be approved by management level 4 or above. Such absence is recorded as “D” on the timecard, and  
the relationship of the deceased is noted.  
Inimediate family is an employee’s spouse, child, grandchild, brother, sister, parent, grandparent,  
parent or grandparent, or someone who has acted in place of a parent. Immediate family also includes a  
same-gender domestic partner, his or her child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, or someone who has acted  
in place of either parent.  
Emergency Shutdown is the closure of a corporate facility, a corporate-leased building, or a military  
building housing corporate employees in the event of an emergency or disaster. Employees excused from  
work by management direction because of an ernergency shutdown will receive absence pay. Such  
absences are reported as “E™ on the timecard. Employees continuing on vacation, occasional sick, or other  
approved absences that began prior to the shutdown are not eligible to charge time to emergency  
shutdown. Employees on vacation, occasional sick, or other approved absences who were scheduled to  
D-7  
return to work but were prevented from doing so by an emergency shutdown, receive paid absence by  
charging to “E” on the timecard.  
Legal is a paid absence of up to three workdays for a legally required court appearance other than jury  
duty. It is only available for exempt employees. Such absence is reported as “L” on the timecard, and the  
reasons noted. Employees notify supervision promptly of legally required absences and provide any  
necessary justification: e.g., a copy of the subpoena for court appearance.  
Other is a paid absence of up to one workday, approved at the discretion of supervision, for each  
occurrence of other personal emergencies not covered in the foregoing paragraphs. Such absence is  
reported as “O” on the timecard, and the reasons noted.  
### UNPAID ABSENCES  
Children’s School Activities is an absence for employees to participate in children’s school activities if  
they are parents, guardians, grandparents having custody, or have same-gender domestic partners who are  
parents, guardians, or grandparents having custody. Such absences may be charged to vacation, personal  
holiday, or no pay. Exempt employees record no pay units in accordance with paragraph 4. The employee  
must utilize available vacation prior to the use of no pay. No pay absences for children's school activities  
may not exceed nine hours in any calendar month of the school year or a total of 40 hours per school year.  
When no pay hours are used, the employee must notify supervision at least one day prior to the planned  
absence. Management may request the employee to provide documentation from the school as proof of  
participation.  
Holiday Closure is an absence applicable when the corporation closes the facility during a holiday period,  
such as between Christmas Day and New Year’s Day. Holiday closure does not include corporate-paid  
holidays, such as Christmas Day and New Year’s Day. Absences during a holiday closure are charged to  
either vacation or no pay.  
Religious Observance is an absence for religious observance that may be recorded on the timecard as  
vacation, personal holiday, or no pay.  
Unscheduled Absence is an absence when an employee is unable to report to work due to unforeseen  
circumstances (for example, if detained by a disabled vehicle or an accident enroute to work).  
The employee notifies supervision as soon as possible after the start of a scheduled work shift. If an  
employee fails to report to work and fails to cal! and explain the absence within two hours of the scheduled  
start time, the supervisor will attempt to contact the employee. If the absence remains unexplained after  
four hours, the supervisor notifies the next level of management, who will notify Employee Relations.  
Depending on the circumstances, unscheduled absence may be reported as vacation, no pay. or other on  
the timecard, with the approval of management.  
### SECTION 7. COMPENSATORY TIME OFF  
### GENERAL  
D-8  
### J  
f  
{ 3  
a  
i  
f 2 3  
  
i # ft  
### J  
fF §b f€  
i  
i  
3  
The corporation is continuirg a Compensatory Time Off program as a pilot during FY2008. Regular full-  
time exempt employees are eligible for this program. Non-exempt employees are not eligible for  
compensatory time off programs.  
In order to accrue compensatory time, an employee must work at least 48 hours in the workweek. Hours  
worked by the employee beyond 48 accrue compensatory time up to the maximum accrual of nine hours.  
Accrual of compensatory time ts subject to approval by manageme.t.  
Absences during the workweek are not counted towards accruing compensatory time.  
The maximum accrual at any one time is a total of nine hours of compensatory time. An employee is not  
limited in the number of times he/she earns and uses compensatory time.  
Accrued compensatory time off may be taken in one-hour increments, not to exceed one day per week.  
Utilization of compensatory time off by the employee must be coordinated in advance with management.  
Borrowing of compensatory time off is not allowed.  
Accrual and utilization of compensatory m2 miust eccur within the sanie fiseal year. Accrued  
cuinpensatory time must be utihzed a minimum o. four weeks prior to the end of the Fiscal Year. At the  
end of the fiscal year, employees will receive payment for any unused Compensatory Time hours.  
The employee must coordinate anv vork effort eligible tor compensatory time accrual in advance with  
management and designate Coripensatory time earned and taken vith the following e-time Collection  
System codes:  
e CTE Compensatory Time  
e CTT Compensatory Time Taken  
D-9  
### APPENDIX E  
### EMPLOYEE PROGRAMS  
### SECTION 1. PERFORMANCE RECOGNITION PAYMENT (PRP) PROGRAM  
The Performance Recognition Payment Program consists of a pool of money that is allocated to each  
Division, or equivalent organization, for the purpose of providing a one-time cash payment to individual  
employees based on the need to reward excellent job performance and/or retain or acquire a critical skill.  
This program is intended to create a broader range of opportunities to reward employee job performance  
through the compensation system and to maintain market competitiveness. Hiring incentives are funded  
from this program.  
Division General Managers, or equivalent, are responsible tor implementing the program. Criteria for  
receiving a performance recognition payment include, but are not limited to, the following:  
Exceptional performance  
Technical contributions  
Importance of work  
Team leadership  
Successful risk taking  
Extraordinary workload  
New business support  
Flexibility in assignment  
Critical skills or capability  
Retention  
Market equity  
Hiring incentive  
Cost savings  
Organization building  
Technical investment  
Customer satisfaction  
Corporate/organization goal achievers  
  
Eligibility is limited to Level 4 employees and below. All bargaining unit employees are eligible.  
Recipients” names shall not be publicized by either party at any time.  
### SECTION 2. REFERRAL BONUS PROGRAM  
The Corporation has a Referral Bonus Program with two parts. The first part provides an incentive for  
employees to assist in recruiting qualified candidates to fill MTS vacancies. The second part provides  
incentives for the recruitment of graduate students for summer internships.  
### RECRUITING QUALIFIED CANDIDATES FOR MTS VACANCIES - MTS REFERRAL  
### BONUS PROGRAM  
Under this program, any regular full-time, part-time, temporary, or casual bargaining unit (BU) employee  
who refers an applicant who is subsequently hired as a regular full-time MTS shall receive an award of  
$2500.  
  
An additional $2000 will be awarded if the hired employee has a current SBI clearance.  
There is no limit on the number of awards an individual may eam. A referral is valid for a period of  
twelve (12) months. A referral requiring longer than 12 months to be processed is subject to the approval  
by the Principal Director, Human Resources.  
Candidates already sourced through corporate-sponsored events and activities can be referred by MTS  
after a twelve (12) month waiting period.  
Employees representing Aerospace in corporate-sponsored recruiting events or activities are ineligible for  
this bonus program. Employees within Human Resources, those at Level 5 or above, and all in-line  
supervisors are ineligible.  
To be eligible to receive an award, the referring employees must submit a completed Employee Referral  
Card along with either an Employment Questionnaire (EQ) or resume from the applicant being referred.  
No awards will be authorized if the referral card is submitted after an EQ or resume has been received by  
Staffing Resources. New hires potentially associated with company-sponsored advertising or recruiting  
activities shall be eligible as bonus referrals if an EQ or resume has not been previously received within  
the past twelve (12) months by Staffing Resources at the time of the referral.  
### RECRUITING QUALIFIED GRADUATE STUDENT CANDIDATES FOR SUMMER  
### INTERNSHIPS — THE AEROSPACE AMBASSADOR PROGRAM  
The Aerospace Ambassador Program provides recognition for the recruitment of qualified graduate  
students, first as summer interns and then as full-time MTS. Under this program, any full-time, part-time.  
casual, or temporary or retired employee will receive an initial award of $700 if they refer a graduate  
student that is hired and completes a summer internship of at least two months. In addition, if the intern  
becomes a regular full-time employee within five years of the initial referral, without a period of  
termination, the referring employee will receive an additional $1800.  
To be eligible to receive the award, the referring employee must submit a completed Employee Referral  
Card along with either a resume offer an Employment Application from the applicant being referred.  
All of the conditions and restrictions of the MTS Referral Bonus Program will apply to the Ambassador  
Program. There is no limit to the number of awards an individual may earn. A referral is valid for a period  
of twelve months. This program is effective as of May 31, 2006.  
### SECTION 3. PATENT ROYALTIES  
Royalties received from patent licensing are shared with inventors after payment of certain administrative  
expenses such as application and maintenance fees and the costs associated with protecting and  
preserving patent rights. The inventor receives 33 percent of the cumulative net royalties received by the  
corporation (this amount is shared equally among multiple inventors unless previous sharing agreements  
have been arranged). The inventor will continue to receive his/her share of the cumulative net royalties  
even after termination of employment. The department also receives 33 percent of the  
cumulative net royalties received by the corporation to be used for support of scientific research (shared  
among departments in the same manner as the inventor’s portion). The remaining amount is distributed  
by the Group Vice President of Engineering and Technology and used to support scientific research and  
development in a manner compatible with corporate interests.  
### SECTION 4. CORPORATE AWARDS PROGRAM  
E-2  
  
9 £ 3  
» € 9 f£  
  
i  
{  
### J  
i  
i 43  
The Corporation encourages outstanding personal and team achievements that result in signifteant  
contributions to the mission. The Corporate Awards Program recognizes such contributions  
by regular empleyees {full and part-time) who demonstrate a level of excellence exceeding normal  
expectations. All bargaining unit employees are eligible.  
The Corporate Awards Program consists of the following eight awards programs: Trustee’s Distinguished  
Achievement Award, President’s Achievement Award, Excellence In Diversity Award, Program  
Recognition Award, Individual Achievement Awards, Team Achievement Awards, Spot Awards, and  
Improvement Opportunity Idea Program. The specific maximum award amounts and frequency of awards  
are as follews, subject to employee merit and Dudget:  
   
   
Category Award Frequency  
Trustees’ Distinguished $25,000 individual Annually  
Achievement Award  
President’s Achievement $12,500 individual | Annually  
Award $7,500 shared _ al ee  
Excellence In Diversity Award | $5,000 individual Annually  
_ $2,500 shared —  
Program Recognition Award Dinner for contributors Annually  
and guests  
Individual Achievement $350 - $4000 individual Up to 4 per year per  
Awards Division _  
$206 - $1000, $1500 per Up to 2 per year per  
team member Division  
$175 or $25/person lunch, As Merited Within Budget  
or  
non-monetary award  
Improvement Opportunity Idea certificate Quarteriy  
Idea Program Eligible for $100 drawing  
### DISTINGUISHED ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS  
   
   
Trustees’ Distinguished Achievement Awards are given for specific outstanding achievements that are  
recognizable by the professional community as worthy of high commendation, One or more Trustees’  
Distinguished Achievement Awards are considered annually from among the selectees tor the  
Achievement Awards.  
### PRESIDENT’S ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS  
Achicvement Awards are given for specitic outstanding achievements that are recognizable by  
the professional community as worthy of high commendation. President's Awards are considered  
annually in each of the five achievement categories that may inciude scierific, engineering, analytical,  
program management, and administrative.  
### EXCELLENCE IN DIVERSITY AWARDS  
E-3  
Excellence In Diversity Awards are given for specific outstanding achievements that are recognizable by  
the professional community as worthy of high commendation. Excellence In Diversity Awards are  
considered annually to recognize and reward contributions and behavior that supports corporate values in  
the areas of diversity and equality.  
### PROGRAM RECOGNITION AWARDS  
Program Recognition Awards are service awards made to employees participating in completion of a  
significant program milestone or organizational achievement or in those programs that have achieved or  
exceeded their performance and reliability objectives. Program Recognition Awards take the form of a  
dinner for the recipients and their guests.  
### INDIVIDUAL ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS  
Individual Achievement Awards may be awarded to individuals for:  
a. Individual efforts that exceed the normal range of commitment and achievement,  
b. Demonstration of leadership and teamwork qualities to produce superior results, and  
C. Positive impact on achievement of corporation/organization vision, mission and goals.  
Consideration and review for individual awards goes on throughout the year, with the evaluation and  
recommendation being performed by employees at all levels and the review and selection being  
performed by management. Normally, each Division (of 150 individuals) can expect to award at least two  
awards per year, constrained by merit and fiscal budget.  
The award amount is $350-$4000 per individual award.  
### TEAM ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS  
Team Achievement Awards are intended to recognize contributions by teams of employees that  
demonstrate a level of excellence beyond normal expectations. Team Achievement Awards are given for:  
a. Significant contributions to corporate vision, mission, goals,  
b. Enhancement of processes, procedures and/or products, and  
C. Exceptional customer satisfaction.  
Teams normally consist of two or more individuals having active participation and identifiable  
contributions.  
The award amount is $200 - $1500 per team member. Normally one award will be given per Division  
(approx. 150 individuals) per year, being constrained by merit and fiscal budget. Nomination and review  
of team awards goes on throughout the year, with the evaluation and recommendation being performed by  
employees at all levels and the review and selection being performed by management.  
### SPOT AWARDS PROGRAM  
E-4  
(  
  
f  
### I  
  
rd  
j  
(J  
i  
[  
The goal of the SPOT Award program is to timely recognize and reward individual and team  
accomplishments “on the spot” to stimulate exceptional levels ef excellence and reinforce pesitive role  
model behaviors at every level.  
Examples of allowable expenses include:  
a Monetary awards  
b. On- and off-site award luncheons to recogrize achievements  
C. Staff meetings to recognize  
Examples of unallowable expenses include:  
a. Gifts, entertainment tickets, lunch vouchers, ete.  
b. New hire/promotion recognition luncheons  
c. Team building luncheons  
d. Picnics  
Retirement parties  
F. Christmas parties  
Anyone may nominate an employee or a team for a SPOT Award. Criteria may be determined by  
individual organizations. Selections may be by a consensus of immediate management, e.g., Level 5 and  
reporting Levels 4 & 3.  
Award Elements:  
a. Monetary: $175 per person for individual or small team  
b. Non-Monetary: $40 maximum per person for large team recognition  
### IMPROVEMENT OPPORTUNITY IDEA PROGRAM  
The Improvement Opportunity Idea Program is established to encourage employees to submit practical  
ideas tor tmproving corporate operations. Ideas submitted to the program are considered if  
implementation is feasible and resource requirements are reasonable and/or available.  
Eligible ideas are recognized by publication, subject to the discretion of the submitter, in the Orbiter and  
the submitter receives an IDEA certificate recognizing their contribution. The names of the submitters ate  
entered in a quarterly drawing in which the winner receives $190.  
Ideas not eligible for consideration are those that have been submitted by other employees within two  
years of the original submission, or are statements of problems or concerns that do not offer reasonable  
solutions.  
Inventions are processed in accordance with the Patent Program Practice and are not included in this  
Program.  
### SECTION 5. CONTINUING LEARNING  
The corporation is committed to supporting and creating opportunities for employees to pursue  
Continuing Learning (CL). CL benefits the corporation and its employees and is the shared responsibility  
of management and staff. A strong focus on CL increases innovation and improves efficiency and  
productivity.  
To foster a CL environment, an annual division-average target of 40 hours per year per employee has  
been established for participation in CL activities. The corporation encourages all organizations to  
consistently meet or exceed the annual division-average CL participation target. The corporation  
acknowledges that success may vary from year to year depending on resources available, demands of  
mission-critical work, or other circumstances beyond the control of individual managers and employees.  
Continuing Learning refers to the employee’s ongoing efforts to enhance his or her professional  
awareness, knowledge, skills, performance, and value to the corporation through instruction, study,  
practice, exercise, or experience. CL activities may be pursued during company hours or on personal  
time and may involve a variety of educational providers, delivery formats (e.g., classroom/course, e-  
learning, readings, directed job assignments, etc.), and locations (e.g., on site or external to Aerospace).  
CL activities are formal or informal activities that are mutually recognized by a participating employee  
and his or her immediate line management as: 1) being tutorial in primary purpose and nature; 2) having a  
defined, finite time duration; and 3) involving subject matter relevant to the employee’s current position  
or that helps the employee prepare for different positions within their current job category.  
Formal CL activities include: participation in academic programs or classes offered by colleges and  
universities; participation in corporate or customer awareness update or training sessions; participation in  
orientation, knowledge, or skills-building courses, workshops, or seminars; participation in on-the-job  
experiential or rotational assignments; attending, speaking, or presenting at professional seminars,  
symposia, or conferences; and teaching or designing courses or leaming modules  
Informal CL activities include learning activities such as: reading books and journals with the specific  
intent to acquire new job-related knowledge or skills; and performing self-directed study, including  
preparing for professional examinations, licenses, or certifications. This may also include the time an  
employee invests in teaching and mentoring others to help them learn and become more productive  
employees.  
The corporation, The Aerospace Institute, management, and employees share responsibility for  
implementation of CL at Aerospace.  
The Corporation:  
a. Provides the strategic context and creates a supportive CL environment, including the  
commitment of corporate resources for the development, delivery, and participation in CL  
activities.  
b. Provides educational assistance programs and special educational assignments to support  
employee participation in CL opportunities provided by local universities and colleges.  
The Aerospace Institute:  
a. Supports CL by administering educational assistance and by developing, offering, and tracking  
participation in programs, resources, and services that address the learning and career-  
development needs of employees and organizations across the corporation.  
b. Develops and maintains descriptions of recommended activities, guidelines, practices, and roles  
and responsibilities for key CL-related processes.  
c 3 € F € € 8  
i  
  
en  
3  
i  
£ 2  
  
C. Collaborates with other Aerospace organizations to share information, advice. and resources for  
CL opportinities such as professione! conferences, seminacs, traming worksheps. and other  
educational activities related to their specific functional responsibilities.  
Division Management:  
a. Encourages and facilitates attamment of the corporate division-average CL. participation target.  
tracks employee and organizattonal CL participation data, and provides summary reports when  
requested.  
b. Identifies and allocates resources from division overhead furding for employee participation in  
external CL opportunities.  
Maregement {All Levels):  
a. Initiates reavlar discussions with employees tc help them identify competency development  
needs and relevant CL opportunities for enhancement of current job performance.  
Works with their so those employees can participate in format and informal CL  
activities each year.  
c. Assesses the effectiveness of CL activities and resources for their orgarizations and helps  
facilitate employee learning on the job.  
d. Works with employees and customers to secure direct funding for employee participation in  
external and in-house CL opportunities.  
Employees:  
a. Work with their managers to identify and pursue CL activities offetz.? in-house or externally that  
are relevant to the competencies needed to perform effectively in their current jobs and to pursue  
their career paths at Aerospace.  
b. Participate in regular discussions with their managers to identify competency development needs  
and relevant CL opportunities for enhancement of current job perform?nce.  
Review Job Descriptions and Job Postings and consult with hiring managers to identity  
competencies and other qualifications needed for desired positions withtn the corporation.  
  
d. Obtain advice on career path planning, personal skills assessment, znd competency development  
opportunities by initiating informal discussions with their managers and personal mentors, and by  
exploiting career development support resources offered by the Institute.  
e. Optionally plan and record their participation in specific, in-house or external learning activities.  
A Lotus Notes-based electronic form is available to assist employees end managers in recording  
continuing learning activity at the corporation. By optionally completing the form, employees will create  
a cumulative record of their learning activities. The information will be compiled automatically in  
division summary reports. General Managers and Business Managers will heve access to the information  
provided. Organizations will be able to monitor and track the overall levels of activity and associated  
costs for the various types of continuing learning activities. The information will also provide the  
corporation with the data needed to establish annual targets and required resources to support employee  
continuing learning efforts.  
E-7  
### SECTION 6. ABSENCES  
The corporation recognizes that employees are subject to emergencies or family related matters that  
justify brief absences from work. Depending on the circumstances, it is appropriate for supervisors to  
approve this time as a paid absence or unpaid absence, and to verify accuracy of timecard data.  
Paid absences for annual military reserve duty, industrial injury, holidays, jury duty, occasional sick,  
rehabilitation, and vacation are covered in other corporate practices. Unpaid leave of absence is covered  
in another practice.  
A paid absence is counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing a 40-hour workweek and for  
computing overtime hours for nonexempt employees for the week in which it occurred. A paid absence is  
counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing a 40-unit workweek and for computing  
compensation for exempt employees on extended workweek.  
Exempt full-time employees record no-pay absences m whole-day increments. Exempt part-time  
employees record no-pay absences in scheduled whole workday increments. Nonexempt full- and part-  
time employees record no pay in tenth-of-an-hour increments. Fractions of an hour are recorded as  
decimals; e.g., 6 minutes = 0.1 and 30 minutes = 0.5. No-pay hours are recorded as “N” on the timecard.  
This practice is subject to applicable federal and state laws. Employee Relations provides assistance and  
answers employee questions on absences discussed in this practice.  
### PAID ABSENCES  
Bereavement is a paid absence in the event of a death in an employee’s immediate family of up to three  
workdays. If the employee needs more time to travel to the funeral site, up to five workdays of absence  
may be approved by management level 4 or above. Such absence is recorded as “D” on the timecard, and  
the relationship of the deceased is noted.  
Immediate family is an spouse, child, grandchild, brother, sister, parent, grandparent,  
parent or grandparent, or someone who has acted in place of a parent. Immediate family also  
includes a same-gender domestic partner, his or her child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, or someone  
who has acted in place of either parent.  
Emergency Shutdown is the closure of a corporate facility, a corporate-leased building, or a military  
building housing corporate employees in the event of an emergency or disaster. Employees excused from  
work by management direction because of an emergency shutdown will receive absence pay. Such  
absences are reported as “E™ on the timecard. Employees continuing on vacation, occasional sick, or  
other approved absences that began prior to the shutdown are not eligible to charge time to emergency  
shutdown. Employees on vacation, occasional sick, or other approved absences who were scheduled to  
return to work but were prevented from doing so by an emergency shutdown, receive paid absence by  
charging to “E” on the timecard.  
Legal is a paid absence of up to three workdays for a legally required court appearance other than jury  
duty. It is only available for exempt employees. Such absence is reported as “L” on the timecard, and the  
reasons noted. Employees notify supervision promptly of legally required absences and provide any  
necéssary justification; ¢.g., a copy of the subpoena for court appearance.  
E-8  
fe £8 £ Bb CY  
{  
oy  
3  
  
i 3  
Other is a paid absence of up to one workday, approved at the discretion of supervision. for each  
occurrence of other personal emergencies not covered in the foregoing paragraphs. Such absence 1s  
reported as “O” on the timecard, and the reasons noted.  
### UNPAID ABSENCES  
Children’s School Activities is an absence for employees tc participate m children’s school activities if  
they are parents, guardians, grandparents having custody, or have same-gender domestic partners who are  
parents. guardians, or grandparents having custody. Such absences may be charged to vacation, personal  
holiday, or ne pay. Exempt employees record no pay units in accordance with paragraph 4. The  
employee must utilize available vacation prior to the use of no pay. No pay absences for children's school  
activities may not exceed nine hours in any calendar month of the school year or a total of 40 hours per  
school year. When no pay hours are used, the employee must notify surervisien 2t least one day prior to  
the planned absence Management may requesi the emoloyee to provide decumentation from the school  
as proof of participation.  
Holiday Closure is an absence applicable when the corporation closes the facility during a holiday pertod,  
such as betweer Chnstmas Day and New Day. Holiday clesure does not include corporate-paic  
holidays. such as Christmas Day and New Year's Day. Absences during a holiday closure are charged to  
either vacation or no pay.  
Religious Observance is an absence for religious observance that may be recorded on the timecard as  
vacation. personal holiday, or no pay.  
Unscheduled Absence is an absence when an employee is unable to report to work due to unforeseen  
circumstances (for example, if detained by a disabled vehicle or an accident enroute to work).  
The employee notifies supervision as soon as possible after the start of a scheduled work shift. If an  
empleyee fails to report to work and fails to call and explain the absence within twe hours of the  
scheduled start time, the supervisor will attempt to contact the employee. IJf the absence remains  
unexplained after four hours. the supervisor notifies the next level of management, who will notify  
Employee Relations.  
Depending on the circumstances, unscheduled absence may be reported as vacation, no pay, or other er  
the timecard, with the approval of management.  
### SECTION 7. LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES  
Aerospace employees are increasingly being challenged to develop and sustain high levels of competency  
in a variety of technical (engineering and scientific), management, leadership, business, computing, and  
other professional skill areas. The Aerospace Institute (TAI) has developed broad-based, substantive  
curricula of in-house and external programs, courses, and multimedia learning support resources that are  
specifically tailored to the continuing learning and developmental needs of al! Aercspace employees,  
especially those who are new to the corporation.  
Aerospace Institute Learning Systems comprise integrated sequences of cou-ses, programs and resources  
supporting corporate orientation, technical education, business and professional skills, computing skills,  
and management development.  
Corporate orientation 1s a process of introducing a new employee to the company culture and providing  
them with information and resources they will need to quickly become a contributing member of their  
organization.  
E-9  
Technical education offerings enhance MTS capabilities in the core functional areas vital to the  
performance of the corporate technical mission. These offerings include a technical orientation series,  
technical enrichment courses, the Aerospace Systems Architecting and Engineering Certificate Program,  
and a critical skills development curriculum.  
The technical orientation series courses provide basic knowledge and are designed to assist staff  
transitioning into or desiring a refresher in the foundations of the space systems business.  
The technical enrichment courses are a variety of individual technical courses offered to address concepts,  
state-of-the-art developments, and issues associated with the science, technology, and engineering  
disciplines for space and space-related missions and systems.  
The Aerospace Systems Architecting and Engineering Certificate Program (ASAECP) develops the broad  
systems perspective and specific architecting-engineering competencies needed by Aerospace technical  
staff to function effectively in the new era of space systems acquisition. The ASAECP curriculum  
consists of the following:  
Initial Awareness Segment  
This segment provides awareness of Aerospace systems architecting, acquisition, and engineering  
roles and responsibilities in relation to Aerospace’s customers and their contractors  
Fundamental Knowledge and Basic Skill Building Segments  
These segments provide employees with a choice of several optional developmental paths  
designed to instill in-depth understanding and basic facility in applying key concepts,  
methodologies, and tools associated with systems architecting, acquisition, and engineering. The  
following optional tracks are available:  
Aerospace Systems Architecting Program (ASAP)  
Space Systems Engineering Program (SSEP)  
Space Systems Acquisition Management Program (SSAMP)  
Skills Reinforcement Segment  
This segment provided employees with experience in resolving real world technical and relevant  
non-technical issues of a complex, multidisciplinary nature by applying systems architecting and  
engineering principles and tools in the context of mentored job assignments.  
The ASAECP curriculum comprises organized sequences of courses and mentored assignments that are  
designed to develop employee competency in applying the methods and tools of systems architecting,  
acquisition, and engineering to the resolution of real world technical issues of complex, multidisciplinary  
nature.  
Successful completion of the ASAECP leads to a corporate-acknowledged certificate and designation as  
Aerospace Systems Architect-Engineer (ASAE). This designation is considered to be one of the  
measures of successful career progression within the corporation.  
Special courses or course series are occasionally developed and offered to develop an employee's  
competencies in corporately identified “critical skills” areas.  
E-10  
3 ¢ € 2 € gp £€ 8 tS Ee  
j  
a  
Jota it  
4  
3  
### EF  
}  
(  
  
### J  
  
i J  
In addition to technical education offerings, Te institute has established a variety of learning  
opportunities and web resources in management leadership, business, professional, and computing skills  
topic areas that support the development of key behavioral and fiunctiona! competencies needed for  
effective employee performance in their current and potential future yob assignments.  
The development curriculurn builds competencies for effectiveness, leadership, and  
management in a rapidly changing business environment. While many courses in this curriculum are  
offered to current managers only, some are available for enrollment by bargaining unit personnel as well.  
ror people who caitnot attend classroom training or thase who need a quick topical review, the Institute  
provides a variety of e-Learning opportunities. E-Leaming otfers a variety of online courses and  
resources that provide just in time training anytime and anywhere as long as the user has access to the  
required Internet or corporate intranet connection.  
The Institute also peovides a variety of cates support rescurces and services, including the Aerospace  
Technical Staff Career Path Planning (CPP) web site and a self-directed on-line azsissazent tool, Strategic  
Career Management.  
### SECTION 8 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS  
Both APSA and the Corporation are committed to professional excellence and employee development.  
To fulfill this commitment. the Corporation provides the following three prograrns for bargaining unit  
employees:  
a. Education Tuition Reimbursement: provides reimbursement of tuition, fees, and textbooks for  
approved courses, which may be associated with a degree program.  
b. Corporate Study Assistance: provides part-time work and supplemental salary while participating  
in a degree program.  
c. Corporate Educational Assignment: provides for a variety of educational assignments.  
Each of these programs is described in more detail in the following sections.  
### EDUCATION TUITION REIMBURSEMENT  
The Corporation provides an Education Tuition Reimbursement prograrc. The program is open to all  
bargaining unit employees taking individual graduate and undergraduate col'ege level classes. The  
program is also open to all bargaining unit employees taking any approved graduate and undergraduate  
college-level classes that may be associated with a degree program.  
Reimbursement of educational] expenses shall be authorized when:  
a. The requester ts a regular full-time or part-time employee currently in good standing:  
b. The course work or degree program is directly related to the employee's current or antictpated field  
of work;  
C. Completion of the course or degree is expected to enhance the emplcyee’s value to the  
Corporation; and  
i.  
The employee completes an Education Plan for Tuition Reimbursement (Aerospace Form 5649) for  
the upcoming academic year. Form 5649 normally should be submitted by April 30 for the  
upcoming academic year.  
Concurrence of their level 4 (or above) management.  
The employee completes Part | of an Application for Tuition Reimbursement (Aerospace Form  
2261) at the beginning of the course(s).  
Within 6 months of satisfactory completion of the course(s), the employee must complete the  
remainder of Aerospace Form 2261 and attaches transcripts and/or official grade reports and  
original receipts for tuition, mandatory fees and textbooks.  
For undergraduate courses, the employee receives a grade of C or better (C, C+, B-, B, B+, A-, A,  
A+)  
For graduate courses, the employee receives a grade of B or better (B, B+, A-, A, At).  
Reimbursement is provided for applicable tuition, mandatory fees, and required textbooks. Total  
reimbursement is limited to $5,250 for any employee in a single fiscal year.  
The employee must obtain approval of individual courses by the cognizant line management.  
Employees are normally required to take courses outside of scheduled work hours. However, the normal  
work hours may be adjusted subject to approval by the cognizant line management.  
A participant who voluntarily resigns from employment or who is terminated for cause is required to  
reimburse the Corporation for all educational expenses paid within the 12 months previous to the  
termination, excluding any legal fees and costs related to the collection thereof.  
FE-12  
t¢ d € FF € Pb E  
  
3  
BoE Ut  
i  
3  
t  
i  
i  
### CORPORATE STUDY ASSISTANCE  
The Corporation maintains a Corporate Study Assistance program and awards fellowships to qualified  
individuals who will contribute to the technical and business expertise of the Corporation. Fe'lowships  
are awarded to regular full- or part-time employees currently in good standing. These fellows remain  
employed by the Co:poration while enrolled ‘n appropriate graduate degree programs at accredited  
colleges or universities. Full-trme students will receive reimbursement for incurred expenses such as  
tuition, books and mandatory fees, compensation based on part-time work at the Aerospace Corporation  
and additional finencial support as a weekly stipend. Part-time studerts are not eligible to receive the  
stipend.  
Qualifying for the Corporate Studies Assistance Program  
To qualify for participation in this program, the employee:  
- must have been an empleyee of The Actespace Corporation for at lecst avo years.  
raust have a Bachelor's degree in a Seld applicable te the assignment with a minimum overal!  
grade point average of “B" (3 0 on a sale of 4.0).  
- must provide a letter of accetance inio a graduate degree prograin in a discipline of importance  
to the Corporation at an accredited university near the proposed work assignment.  
- must obtain a written recommendaijon and an endorsement from iiae management through level 5  
or above with the concurrence of a cognizant level 6.  
- must subnut an Application for Corperate Study Assistance (Form 261) to The Aerospace  
Institute no later than April 20 for the upcoming academic year.  
- must disclose all amounts and sources of other financial assistance, including grants, fellowships.  
scholarships or other awards from individuals, governments or government institutions, colleges  
or universities as these amounts will be deducted from corporate study assistance expenses.  
- must file a proposed class schedule with The Aerospace Institute within 30 days of the beginning  
of the academic year.  
- must submit an offictal transcript to the Aerospace Institute within 60 days of the completion of  
each academic term.  
- must submit receipts for actual incurred expenses to the Operations Center of The Aerospace  
Institute  
Full-Time Students  
Workweek Effort, Holiday Pay, Stipend, and Employee Status  
Students who carry a full-time schedule will be employed as part-time employees during the academic  
year except for scheduled school recesses and vacations when they will be classified as full-time students.  
Full-time students in this program will also receive a stipend that is approximately 20% of the employees  
full-time base, weekly salary. This stipend will be provided for no more than 36 weeks.  
Full-time students will receive full holiday pay during the weeks they are on full-time employee status,  
and partial holiday pay during weeks where they are on part-time employee status.  
Voluntary and Involuntary Withdrawal or Termination from the Program  
A participant must reimburse the Corporation for applicable tuition and textbook fees if the participant  
voluntarily or involuntarily drops a course, receives a B- or less in any course, or receives less than  
satisfactory for dissertation research.  
Employees may be terminated from the program if their academic achievement falls below a B average,  
university requirements are not met, the number of courses per regular university term is less than  
required, or work performance is unacceptable.  
Time Limits on Program  
Candidates for Master of Science degrees or Master of Business Administration degrees may participate  
in the program for up to three years. Candidates for Doctor of Philosophy degrees may participate for up  
to five years.  
### MONETARY LIMITS ON PROGRAM  
Beginning FY 2008, there will be a yearly $12,000 limit for each fellowship awarded.  
### CORPORATE EDUCATIONAL ASSIGNMENT  
The Corporate Educational Assignment program assists in the advancement of full and part-time  
bargaining unit employees who are now, or have demonstrated the potential to become. major  
contributors to the progress of the Corporation. The program normally requires an employee to have three  
or more years of service to be eligible. Special consideration may be granted to employees with less  
service, depending on the assignment.  
Corporate educational assignments are awarded selectively to regular employees for research or graduate  
study in fields directly related to their present work at the Corporation. Educational expenses required to  
meet the minimum requirements for employment in their current trade of profession or are required to  
qualify for a new trade or profession are not reimbursable under this program.  
The corporation requires that the applicant must clearly establish a direct relationship between the  
assignment and current job requirements.  
The corporation requires the employee to submit an application package that includes the following items:  
a completed Application for Corporate Educational Assignment form (Form 3047) and a Corporate  
Educational Assignment Estimated Expenses form (Form 3047-1); a list of three academic references; and  
a written proposal describing the educational program and its costs, the proposed start and end dates, the  
employee’s employment and educational background, and the proposed benefits to the corporation. In  
addition, the applicant must clearly establish a direct relationship between the assignment and current job  
requirements. This package must be submitted to their cognizant level 6 or above no later than April 30  
for the upcoming fiscal year in which the educational assignment is to begin. The corporation also  
requires the applicant to submit official transcripts of all academic work completed at the college or  
university level.  
E-14  
ltl  
f  
}  
  
3  
Cc 3  
Each assignment is evaluated by senior management or a case-by-case basis and approved by The  
Aerospace Institute. The number of awards made under this program depends both on the funds alfocated  
by the Corporation and on the merit of the applications received.  
Employees may participate in the program up to a maximum of three years for any given assignment.  
Participants receive financial assistance, which may include stipends, salary supplements, trevel.,  
temporary housing. and expense retmbursements, after accounting for any other financial assistance.  
Financial support for a corporate educational assignment is shared by The Aerospace Institute and the  
employee's organization.  
Any work schedule will be defined in the agreement to be reached ty the parties.  
Grade requirements will be defined in the agreement to be reached by the parties  
A participant who voluntarily resigns from employment or who is termineted for cause is required to  
reimburse the Corporation for al! educational expenses paid within the 24 months previous to the  
termination, excluding any legal fees and costs related to the collection thereof.  
### SECTION 9. SEVERANCE PAY  
Eligible regular employees terminated due to < RIF receive a lump-sum severance payment upon  
termination, determined by months of continuous employment since their most recent hire date, counting  
full credit for full-time service and half-credit for part-time service. Pesiods of tempurary or casual  
employment or periods of inactive status, such as leave of absence, unpaid special assignment. or unpaid  
disability leave are not counted. Severance pay is calculated in accordance with the following table:  
Months of Weeks of  
Credited Service Severance  
Less than 36 months Z  
36 but less than 48 months 2  
48 but less than 60 months 4  
60 but less than 72 months 5  
72 but less than &4 months 6  
84 but less than 96 months 7  
96 but less than 108% months 8  
108 but less than 120 months 9  
120 but less than 132 months 10  
132 but less than 144 rnonths 1]  
144 but less than 156 months  
156 but less than 168 months 13  
168 but less than 180 months 14  
180 but less than 192 months 15  
192 but less than 204 months 16  
204 but less than 216 months 17  
216 but less than 228 months 18 |  
228 months and more i9 (fax)  
   
### SECTION 10. REDUCTION IN FORCE BENEFITS  
### MEDICAL PLANS  
Medical coverage is extended for employees terminated as a result of a reduction-in-force and their  
eligible dependents for two months from the date of termination. This extended coverage is paid by The  
Aerospace Corporation.  
For an employée retiring directly from active service, medical coverage may continue in retirement  
(beyond the two month extension) for the former employee and eligible dependents. Coverage continues  
if the former employee is at least age 55 and:  
a. Retires with at least ten years of service, the last five of which were consecutive;  
b. Is eligible for active medical at retirement; and  
c. Pays any required cost sharing.  
The Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act (COBRA) requires that The Aerospace Corporation offer  
terminated employees and covered dependents the opportunity to continue the health coverage they had  
prior to termination. COBRA requires that coverage be offered for 18 months at the Company's curreni  
cost plus two percent for administrative costs. An employee terminated as a result of a reduction-in-force  
will have two months of coverage under the group-medical plan paid by The Aerospace Corporation.  
This will result in a total of 16 months of eligibility for the hospital-medical plan under COBRA.  
Blue Cross of California Plan  
Former employees covered under the Blue Cross Comprehensive will receive new I.D. cards. Claims  
incurred during the extension period should be submitted in the same manner as claims were submitted  
prior to termination.  
If an employee or eligible dependent can provide proof of disability satisfactory to the insurance company  
at the time the insurance coverage terminates, their group hospital-medical coverage may be extended.  
The Blue Cross group hospital-medical coverage will be extended only for the disabled individual and  
only for the disabling condition. The extension of benefits due to disability will begin after the two  
months of coverage due to reduction-in-force. Benefits will be continued for the duration of the  
disability, not to exceed twelve months for the comprehensive plan benefit.  
Participation will terminate at the end of the two-month period if you do not choose to enroll in the  
COBRA coverage.  
Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO)  
Former employees covered by an HMO will receive new identification cards. You should keep your  
current card until the new one arrives. Participation will terminate at the end of the two-month period if  
you do not choose to enroll in the COBRA coverage. COBRA continuation coverage as described above  
also applies to HMO participants.  
### EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP)  
3  
c 3 ft  
  
A terminating employee and eligible dependents, covered by Blue Cross or an HMO, may use the  
services offered by the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for a period of two months following the  
employee's termination. If medical coverage is elected under COBRA, EAP services also are continued.  
### DENTAL AND VISION PLANS  
Dental and vision coverage terminates at the end of the month of termination of employment. In addition,  
COBRA requires that The Aerospace Corporation offer terminated employees and covered dependents  
the opportunity to continue the dental and vision coverage they had prior to termination. COBRA ensures  
that coverage is offered for 18 months at the Comrany's current cost plus twe nerzent for administrative  
costs. Information regarding continuation of existing dental and vision coverage and the cost of the  
coverage will be sent approximately ten working days following the termination date.  
### FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNT (FSA)  
Coverage under the Flexible Spending Account for Health Care and Dependent Care terminates when  
terminates. However, expenses incurred orior to the termination date under the Health Care  
account may be reimbursed up to the annual limit elected. Coverage for the FSA Health Care account  
may be continued on an after-tax basis under COBRA through the end of the calendar year of  
termination.  
### GROUP TERM LIFE INSURANCE  
Basic Group Term Life Insurance and Employee-Paid Optional Life Insurance coverage is extended for  
employees terminated as a result of a reduction-in-force and their eligible dependents for two months  
from the date of termination. Only the Basic Group Term Life coverage is paid by The Aerospace  
Corporation. If you or your insured dependents die within 31 days after the life insurance coverage  
terminates, the full amount of life insurance benefit will be paid.  
Conversion Of Group Term Life Insurance Plans  
Coverage under the Aerospace Group Life Insurance plan may be converted to a private plan if requested  
within 31 days following the termination of coverage under the group plan. Both the coverage and  
premiums of the private plan will differ from those provided under the group plan. The advantage of  
conversion is that there is no requirement for a medical examination, and issuance of the policy is  
guaranteed.  
### VOLUNTARY PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE  
Coverage under the Aerospace Voluntary Personal Accident Insurance plan will end on the date of  
termination. This coverage may be converted to a family or individual plan if requested within 31 days  
following termination. Please note: Terminated employees over age 70 and retirees are not eligible to  
convert Voluntary Personal Accident Insurance.  
### GROUP INSURANCE PLANS WHICH ARE TERMINATED ON RIF DATE  
Flexible Spending Account  
Short-Term Disability  
Long-Term Disability  
Occupational Accident  
Voluntary Personal Accident  
Survivors’ Income Benefit  
Dependent Life Insurance  
### AEROSPACE EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT PLAN (AERP)  
Employees who were hired or rehired prior to 1/1/93 are covered under AERP. Employees hired after  
April 1, 2005 also are covered under AERP. Employees hired after January 1, 1993 and before April 1,  
2005 who elected to transfer during the one-time election from July 25 thru August 19, 2005 also are  
covered by AERP. Terminated employees who are vested in The Aerospace Employees’ Retirement Plan  
should make sure to keep the Employee Benefits Department informed of changes in their home address  
at all times. This would ensure that they continue to receive an annual statement of benefits and  
notification of changes in the AERP that may affect their retirement benefits.  
Retirement benefits are available to any employee terminated due to a reduction-in-force who is at least  
age 55, and has completed one year of service.  
Optional Contributions  
Funds on deposit as after-tax Optional Contributions to AERP can remain on deposit after termination if  
an employee has a vested interest in AERP. However, terminating employees who are eligible to receive  
their vested benefits in a lump sum must be paid the value of their Optional Contributions. If a  
terminating employee does not have a vested interest in the Retirement Plan, any funds on deposit in the  
Optional Contributions account must be withdrawn as soon as possible after termination.  
### AEROSPACE SAVINGS ACCOUNT PLAN (ASAP)  
Employees who hired or rehired on or after 1/1/93 are covered under ASAP. Employees hired prior to  
January 1, 1993 who elected to transfer during the one-time election from July 25 thru August, 2005 also  
are covered under ASAP. Accounts are valued everyday the stock market is open.  
Plan participants whose total account value is $5000 or less will be able to roll over the amount to an IRA  
by calling Fidelity Investment Services.  
Otherwise, those participants will have their money automatically distributed to them as soon as  
administratively feasible after their termination date. Plan participants whose total account value is  
greater than $5000 may call Fidelity Investment Services for a distribution form any time after  
termination. Payments from the plan are made as soon as administratively feasible following receipt of  
the form. ASAP participants may leave funds on deposit until April 1 following the year in which age  
70-1/2 is reached.  
Terminated employees who have contributions in ASAP should make sure to keep the Employee Benefits  
Department informed of changes in their home address at all times. This will ensure that they continue to  
receive the quarterly statements and notifications of changes in the plan that may affect their retirement  
benefits.  
E-18  
és f  
i  
### VOLUNTARY ANNUITY/ACCOUNT PLAN (VA/AP)  
If you ace a current VA/AP participant, VA/AP will automatically be deducted from your final week  
pay. You may elect to have VA/AP deducted from vacation pay accrued ard not used in the last 52  
weeks.  
To have VA/AP deducted from your termination pay, yeu must complete and deliver a VA/AP  
Termination Plan Requesi form no later than the Friday prior to your date.  
You may leave your VA/AP account on deposit with your investment carrier(s) until April 1 following  
the year in which you reach age 70-1/2. At thal ime, annual n.iniauri cistributions may be required by  
the Internal Revenue Code.  
### CREDIT UNION  
Terminating who are memters of the Credit Union should check with the Credit Union Office  
departure from Aerospace. Payment of outstanding loans must be arranged prior to departure.  
Once you become a member of the Cred*t Unicn, you are a permanent member as long as you keep a  
talance of $5.00 in your account.  
### SECTION 11. AIRLINE CLUB MEMBERSHIPS  
Employees interestec in enroliing in or renewing their participation in the Aerospace Airline Club  
Membership Reimbursement Program can do so at any time during the fiscal year. Reimbursement for up  
to one club membership will be based on the twelve-month period following your enrollment date (if you  
choose to enroll in more than one club, your eligible trip reimbursement will be based on the highest  
amount paid for a twelve month membership). Reimbursement will be made through Payroll the third  
week in the month followmg your membership expiration date and will be included in your paycheck.  
Thereafter, all retmbursement will be made after the expiration of each traveler's club membership. The  
reimbursement rate is $10 per trip for international or domestic flights.  
You may enroll in more than one club. Reimbursement is based on total business trips taken during your  
12-month membership period. For married couples who are both Aerospace employees, reimbursement  
will be made up of the total amount paid for a 12-month membership (not differentiating between  
club member and spouse rate). If you purchase a lifetime or multi-year membership, you will  
be reimbursed up to the original amount paid, or until the number of years purchased has expired.  
Employees are encouraged to use the club of the Aerospace-preferred airline carrier, but it is not  
mandatory.  
Employees can apply for airline club memberships directly with individual airline clubs through their web  
sites, at airport club locations or by calling a club directly. The following airlines offer club  
memberships:  
America West (America West Club members can also use the Northwest World Clubs in selected  
locations. )  
American Airlines {Admirals Club)  
Continental (President's Club)  
Delta (Crown Room)  
Northwest (World Club)  
United (Red Carpet Club)  
USAir (USAir Club)  
Club memberships paid for with accumulated frequent-flyer miles are not eligible for reimbursement.  
The Corporate American Express charge card cannot be used to purchase a club membership.  
### SECTION 12. RETIREMENT GIFT PROGRAM  
The Retirement Gift Program is a corporate program designed to reward years of total service by  
employees. Upon retirement from active service, employees can choose from a number of selections  
from a Retirement Gift Program catalog. The available catalogs correspond to 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40 years  
of service. The employee may choose a gift from the website corresponding to his/her service.  
The website provides for the following categories of gift selections:  
Years of Dollar Value  
Total Service of Selections  
Less than 60 months —  
60 but less than 120 months $24 - $48  
120 but less than 240 months $48 - $260  
240 but less than 360 months $175 - $443  
360 but less than 480 months $349 - $873  
480 months or more $569 - $1110  
   
E-20  
4 €£ 3 f  
### J  
i  
f  
3  
} i  
### L  
3  
€ a ft  
j  
  
### APPENDIX F  
### EMPLOYEE BENEFITS/INSURANCE PLANS  
### SECTION 1. MEDICAL/DENTAL/VISION PLAN COSTS  
Section 1.1 Plan Costs For Bargaining Unit Employees  
### 1.1.1 GROUP HOSPITAL — MEDICAL PLANS  
### 1.1.4.1 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (ANTHEM BLUE CROSS PPO) (Etfeciive 1/1/08)  
Bargaining unit employee weekly premiums foi the Plai are as follows.  
Anthem Blue Cross Comprehensive Care Cost  
Participant only $22.34  
Participant plus one dependent $40.99  
Participant plus two or more dependents $50.81  
The remainder of the plan cost is borne by the Corporation. of the cost is borne by the company,  
17%o by the emptoyee.  
### 1.1.1.2 HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (HMOs) (Effective 1/1/08)  
Bargaining unit employee weekly premiums for offered HMO’s are as follows:  
   
Anthem Blue Cross CaliforniaCare Cost  
Participant only $14.74  
Participant plus one dependent $29.66  
Participant plus two or more dependents $41.9}  
Aetna (Florida) Cost  
Participant only $21.19  
Participant plus one dependent $44.39  
Participant plus two or more dependents $65.07  
Aetna (Ohio) Cost  
Participant only $23.34  
Participant plus one dependent $46.37  
Participant plus two or more dependents $71.01  
Kaiser (Southern California) Cost  
Participant only $13.25  
Participant plus one dependent $26.41  
Participant plus two or more dependents $37.33  
Kaiser (Northern California) Cost  
Participant only $13.25  
F-]  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Kaiser (mid-Atlantic)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Lovelace (New Mexico)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
MD/IPA (Wash DC)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
PacifiCare (Colorado)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
The remainder of the Plan costs are borne by the Corporation. For all HMO’s, 83% of the cost is borne by  
the company, 17% by the employee.  
### 1.1.1.3 DOMESTIC PARTNER RATES  
Participant only rates for employees who enroll their Domestic Partners and family as dependents are the  
same as those in sections 1.1.1.1 and 1.1.1.2. The Internal Revenue Service has ruled that the actual cost  
of the domestic partner benefit is taxable income to the employee. This is not true for heterosexual  
married couples.  
To assist employees in determining their tax liability through the use of domestic partner benefits, the  
$26.41  
$37.33  
Cost  
$15.94  
$31.80  
$46.06  
Cost  
$18.91  
$38.79  
$52.01  
Cost  
$15.51  
$29.38  
$49.39  
Cost  
$17.88  
$35.68  
$50.45  
following table lists that liability on a monthly basis for each plan  
### MEDICAL HOSPITAL, DENTAL, AND VISION PLAN COSTS FOR SAME-SEX DOMESTIC  
### PARTNERS AND DEPENDENTS OF ACTIVE EMPLOYEES  
tf ¥ ft  
### J  
t  
i  
i  
EE Cost Additional EE Additional ER Total  
Sharing Cost Sharing Costs with DP Additional EE  
COVERAGE without DP with DP Coverage and ER Costs  
Coverage Coverage with DP  
|PRE-TAX] Coverage  
Blue Cross EE + | 22. 65 02 $109.68  
### COMP Plan  
Aetna a EE + 1 Lt $23.20 $173 3] $136.4]  
Healthcare FL  
Aetna US  
Healtheare OH  
California Care 4. BS 87.  
Kaiser {Northern  
### CA)  
Kaiser (Southern  
### CA)  
Pp $13. $141.67  
a a  
Pao aor  
Delta Dental EE+ | $8.40  
Program  
REY + F $5.90 90 69 | S89 59  
a Dental eT + | a &4 Sr A7 aa 44  
Care  
   
     
   
Vision Service EE + 1 $2.48 $1.14 $0.00  
Plan  
1.1.1.4 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP) (Effective 1/1/08)  
   
    
The cost of this Program is included in the medical benefit premiums.  
1.1.1.5 DELTA DENTAL PLAN (Effective 1/1/08)  
All covered bargaining unit employees are required to share in the cost of their dental expense plan on a  
weekly basis as follows:  
Delta Dental Plan Cost  
Participant only § 2.25  
Participant plus one dependent $ 5.07  
Participant plus two or more dependents $ 8.15  
The remainder of the Plan cost is borne by the Corporation  
1.1.1.6 DENTAL NET (Effective 1/1/08)  
All covered bargaining unit employees are required to share in the cost of their prepaid dental plan on a  
weekly basis as follows:  
Dental Net Cost  
Participant only $ 1.31  
Participant plus one dependent § 2.61  
Participant plus two or more dependents $ 3.85  
The remainder of the Plan cost is borne by the Corporation  
1.1.1.7 CIGNA (Effective 1/1/08)  
All covered bargaining unit employees are required to share in the cost of their prepaid dental plan on a  
weekly basis as follows:  
Cigna Cost  
Participant only $ 1.64  
Participant plus one dependent $3.11  
Participant plus two or more dependents $ 4.78  
The remainder of the Plan cost is borne by the Corporation.  
caf  
i  
1.1.1.8 VISION SERVICE PLAN (VSP) (Effective 1/1/08)  
Vision Service Plan Cost  
Participant only $ 2.48  
Participant plus one dependent $ 3.62  
Participant plus two or more dependents $ 6.49  
1.1.1.9 FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCUONT (FSA) (Effective 1/1/08)  
The entire cost of this Plan ts borne by the bargaining unit employee. The maximum contribution limits  
for CYO8 are $6000.00 per year for the Health Care Account and $5000.00 per year for the Dependent  
Care Account.  
### 1.1.1.10 OCCASIONAL SICK LEAVE PLAN  
The entire cost of this Plan is borne by the Corporation.  
### 1.1.1.11 TEMPORARY DISABILITY INSURANCE  
The cost of the applicable Plan is borne by the bargaining unit employee.  
### 1.1.1.12 CALIFORNIA STATE DISABILITY INSURANCE (SDI) AND CALIFORNIA FAMILY  
### TEMPORARY DISABILITY INSURANCE (FTDI)  
For employees located in California, the payroll tax deduction rate for CY08 is 0.8% of the wage base of  
$86.698, with a maximum deduction of $693.58. This rate is subject to change by the state. effective  
1/1/08.  
1.1.1.13 AEROSPACE SHORT-TERM DISABILITY (STD) Effective 10/1/07 through 9/30/08)  
For employees located in states other than California, the STD premium fs $5.57 per week for a  
of $289.64 per year.  
Maximum weekly benefits are a maximum of $840 per week for new disabilities commencing on or after  
10/01/07. and will start on the 8" day of disability resulting from an accident or sickness.  
### 1.1.1.14 LONG-TERM DISABILITY (LTD) INCOME BENEFITS INSURANCE PLAN  
The cost of this plan is shared equally by the Corporation and the bargaining unit employee. The cost to  
the employee is $0.215 per $100 weekly salary.  
The employee also has the option of paying 100% of the cost. In this case the cost to the employee is  
$0.43 per $100 of weekly salary.  
The Corporation also offers an optional Long Term Disability Supplemental Income Protection (LTDSIP)  
Plan. The employee pays the full cost of LTDSIP, which is determined individually for each participant.  
LTDSIP can be exchanged for a Long Term Care (LTC) insurance policy after age 60, but no later than  
age 70, for eligible participants. See Section 11 of Appendix F for further information on LTDSIP and  
### LTC.LIFE  
### 1.1.1.15 LIFE INSURANCE PLAN  
The Corporation pays for your basic life insurance coverage.  
The bargaining unit employee may purchase optional life insurance. The employee's cost is as follows:  
Age Bracket Weekly Cost per $1,0000/week  
Under 30 $ 0.007  
30 — 34 0.007  
35 —39 0.009  
40 — 44 0.012  
45 — 49 0.021  
50 — 54 0.032  
55 — 59 0.046  
60 — 64 0.076  
65 — 69 0.134  
70 plus 0.282  
Premiums for spouses and domestic partners are as follows:  
Age Bracket Weekly Cost per $1,000/week  
Under 30 $ 0.007  
30 — 34 0.007  
35-39 0.009  
40 — 44 0.012  
45 —49 0.018  
50 - 54 0.032  
55-59 0.046  
60 — 64 0.076  
65 — 69 0.134  
70 plus 0.282  
Employees may also purchase limited life insurance coverage for their dependent children or their  
domestic partner's dependent children at $0.15 per week for $5,000 and $0.31 per week for $10,000 of  
coverage.  
### 1.1.1.16 OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE PLAN  
The entire cost of this Plan is borne by the Corporation.  
### 1.1.1.17 VOLUNTARY PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE PLAN (Effective 1/1/08)  
The Corporation offers Voluntary Personal Accident Insurance to all MTS. This coverage protects the  
employee, their spouse, their same-sex domestic partner and dependent children in the event of an  
accident. The following general restrictions on the coverage apply:  
1. The maximum amount of coverage that an employee is eligible to elect is ten times the  
employee’s current salary up to a maximum of $600,000.  
2. Amounts of elected coverage over $300,000 may not be more than 10 times the employee's basic  
annual salary.  
3. Coverage for spouses, same-sex domestic partners, and dependent children are limited to  
$500,000 for the spouse or domestic partner and $50,000 for each dependent child.  
4. Eligible employees and their dependents that work at Aerospace can be enrolled only under one  
F-6  
errollment form, either as an employee or as a dependent, but not both.  
5, Changes to the plan can only be made during under the following conditions:  
a. Within the first 30 days of being eligible for the plan.  
b. In the event of a “Change in Status Event” as allowed under IRS regulations.  
c. During the Corporation’s Annual Enrollment Period.  
### RATES FOR 2008  
Principal Sum Spouse & Children Weekly Payroll Deduction  
| Employee [| Spouse | Each Child arta | |  
[$500,000] __sasol| 7.00  
   
    
   
      
     
     
     
     
     
     
       
If you or your spouse reach age 70 or over, the following reductions in the amount of coverage will apply:  
Attained Age Benefit amount  
70 to 74 65% of the full amount  
75 to 79 45% of the full amount  
80 to &4 30° of the full amount  
85 and over of the full amount  
### 1.1.1.18 SEVERANCE PAY PLAN  
The entire cost of thts Plan is borne by the Corporation.  
### 1.1.1.19 AEROSPACE SAVINGS ACCOUNT PLAN (ASAP)  
The entire cost of the Aerospace Savings Account Plan is borne by the Corporation.  
### 1.1.1.20 AEROSPACE EMPLOYEES* RETIREMENT PLAN (AERP)  
F-7  
The entire cost of the Aerospace Savings Account Plan is borne by the Corporation.  
### 1.1.1.21 AEROSPACE VOLUNTARY ANNUITY/ACCOUNT PLAN (VA/AP)  
The entire cost of this plan is borne by the bargaining unit employee.  
Section 1.2 Plan Costs For Bargaining Unit Employees Who Retire During The Term Of  
This Agreement  
### 1.2.1 GROUP HOSPITAL-MEDICAL PLANS  
### 1.2.1.1 GROUP HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (Effective 1/1/08)  
All active bargaining unit employees, upon entering retirement and qualifying for the Retiree Medical  
benefit, will be required to share in the cost of their “comprehensive” group hospital-medical insurance on  
a monthly basis for the remainder of the contract year as follows.  
For Reference Only Retirees Retirees  
under at or  
Anthem Blue Cross Basic Major age 65 over 65  
Participant only $96.81 $96.81  
Participant plus one dependent $177.62 $177.62  
Participant plus two or more  
dependents $220.18 $220.18  
Retirees Retirees  
under at or  
Anthem Blue Cross Comprehensive age 65 over 65  
Participant only $96.81 $96.81  
Participant plus one dependent $177.62 $177.62  
Participant plus two or more  
dependents $220.18 $220.18  
   
After the end of the contract year (August 1, 2008) during which a bargaining unit employee  
retires, the individual may be required to share in a greater portion of the cost of his/her  
“comprehensive” group hospital-medical plan based upon whether he/she was hired or rehired  
prior to or after July 1, 1987. Those individuals hired or rehired prior to July 1, 1987, will be  
subject to the then-current Defined Dollar Benefit (DDB). For those individuals hired or rehired  
on or after July 1, 1987, the amount paid by the Plan will be determined by their years of service  
at retirement and the then-current DDB.  
F-8  
### 1.2.1.2 HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (HMOS) (Effective 1/1/08)  
Active bargaining unit employees, upon 2nterag retirement and for the Retiree Medical  
benefit, will be required to share in the cost of their health maintenance insurance on a monthiy basis for  
the remainder of the contract year as follows.  
CaliforniaCare  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participent plus two or more  
depende:ts  
' San Luis Obispo, CA only  
Blue Cross Senior Secure (California Care)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Aetna (Florida)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more  
dependents  
Kaiser (Southern California)  
Medicare + Choice (Senior Advantage)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more  
dependents  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$63.87  
$128.53  
$181.61  
Not  
Available  
Not  
Available  
Not  
Available  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$91.82  
$192.36  
$281.97  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$57.42  
$114.44  
$167.76  
F-9  
Retirees  
at or over  
65  
Not offered  
Not offered  
Nat  
Retirees  
at or  
over 64  
$59.64  
$128.53  
$181.61  
Retirees  
at or  
over 64  
No longer  
  
No longer  
Offered  
No longer  
Offered  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$0.00  
$0.00  
$88.05  
Kaiser (Northern California)  
Medicare Risk (Senior Advantage)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Kaiser Mid-Atlantic (Wash DC)  
Medicare Choice  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Lovelace (New Mexico)  
Senior Choice Plan  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
MD/IPA (Wash DC)  
Optimum Choice  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
PacifiCare (Colorado)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$57.42  
$114.44  
$161.76  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$69.07  
$137.80  
$199.59  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$81.94  
$168.09  
$225.38  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$ 67.21  
$127.31  
$214.02  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
7748  
$154.61  
$218.62  
F-10  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$0.00  
$0.00  
$88.05  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$ 59.82  
$133.82  
$199.59  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$0.00  
$0.00  
$0.00  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
No longer  
offered  
No longer  
offered  
No longer  
offered  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$ 16.63  
$ 47.44  
$ 218.62  
### E  
### 1.2.1.3 DOMESTIC PARTNER TAX LIABILITY FOR NON-MEDICARE ELIGIBLE  
### BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES WHO RETIRE DURING THE TERM OF  
### THIS AGREEMENT  
Participant only rates for employees who enroll their Domestic Partners and family as dependents are the  
same as those in sections 1.2.1.1 and 1.2.1.2. The Internal Revenue Service has ruled that the actual cost  
of the domestic partner benefit is taxable income to the employee. This is not true tor heterosexual  
married couples.  
To assist employees in determining their liability the use of domestic partner benefits, the  
following table lists that hability on a monthly basis for each plan.  
| Additional RE | Additional ER Total  
RE Cost-Sharing | Costs wich DP | Additional RE  
Sharing with DP Coverage and ER Cost  
Coverage | without DP Coverage | [TAXABLE with DP  
Coverage [POST-TAX] | INCOME TO Coverage  
### EE  
Blue Cross  
-COMP FE+1 $307.85 | $252.79 $211.00 $463.79  
   
### PLAN  
$307.85 $477.60 $707.60  
      
      
        
       
   
     
      
     
         
   
    
            
      
Blue Cross  
-BASE $418.66 $346.37 $211.06 $557.37  
### PLAN  
$418.66  
California  
Care EE+F $127.30 $169.36 $211.00 $380.36  
ESF [8127.30 $462.45 $230.00  
Kaiser  
(Northern $124.46 $211.00  
California)  
a eee $383.89 $230.00 $613.89  
Kaiser  
(Southern $ 89.28 $124.46 $211.00 $335.46  
California)  
   
$ 89,28 $383.89 $230.00 $613.89  
Lovelace EE +1 $295.90 $211.00 $506.90  
$233.43 $613.75 $230.00 $843.75  
co $207.31 $242.82 $211.00 $453.82  
$207.31 $600.32 $236.00 $830.32  
F-1]  
### 1.2.1.4 DOMESTIC PARTNER TAX LIABILITY FOR MEDICARE ELIGIBLE BARGAINING  
### UNIT EMPLOYEES WHO RETIRE DURING THE TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT  
Additional RE | Additional ER Total  
RE Cost- Cost-Sharing | Costs with DP | Additional RE  
Sharing with DP Coverage and ER Cost  
Coverage without DP Coverage [TAXABLE with DP  
Coverage [POST-TAX] | INCOME TO Coverage  
### EE  
Blue Cross  
-COMP EE + 1 $169.06 $165.08 $168.00 $333.08  
### PLAN  
| | $169.06 $282.89 $294.00 $576.89  
Blue Cross  
-BASE EE + | $230.13 $223.25 $168.00 $391.25  
### PLAN  
        
      
      
    
     
       
        
     
    
   
| [$5230.13 -$385.21 $294.00 $679.21  
CaliforniaCare a  
Senor Secure FE + ] $ 59.64 $ 73.82 $168.00 $241.82  
[$59.64 $259.91 $294.00 $553.91  
   
   
CaliforniaCare aaa  
Central Coast EE + 1 $165.66 $179.87 $168.00 $347.87  
| dT | $165.66 $401.72 $294.00 $695.72  
Kaiser  
(Northern EE + 1 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $142.90 $142.90  
California  
| dT | 0.00 $ 88.05 $294.00 $421.33  
Kaiser  
(Southern EE + 1 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $142.00 $142.90  
California  
Of C$ (0.00 $ 88.05 $294.00 $421.33  
NM EE+ 1 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 56.60 $ 56.60  
       
    
$ 0.00 $294.00 $393.45  
CO EE + 1 $ 16.63 $ 30.81 $168.00 $198.81  
$16.63 $281.31 $294.00 $575.31  
After the end of the contract year (August 1, 2008) during which a bargaining unit employee retires, the  
individual may be required to share in a greater portion of the cost of his/her “HMO” group hospital-  
medical plan based upon whether he/she was hired or rehired prior to or after July 1, 1987. Those  
individuals hired or rehired prior to July 1, 1987, will be subject to the then-current Defined Dollar  
Benefit (DDB). For those individuals hired or rehired on or after July 1, 1987, the amount paid by the  
Plan will be determined by their years of service at retirement and the then-current DDB.  
     
1.2.1.5 SAFEGUARD DENTAL PLAN (Effective 1/1/08)  
The following (monthly) premium schedule is applicable for bargaining unit employees who retire during  
the contract term and who elect to participate in this Plan:  
F-12  
Safeguard Dental  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Section 1.3 Plan Costs for Current Retirees  
Monthly  
$18.05  
$30.14  
$43.67  
APSA does not represent retirees. This section ts for information purposes only:  
### 1.3.1 GROUP HOSPITAL-MEDICAL  
### 1.3.1.1 GROUP HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (Effective 1/1/08)  
Blue Cross Comprehensive  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Blue Cross Base Major  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
### 1.3.1.2 HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (HMOQOS) (Effective 1/1/08)  
CaliforniaCare  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
' San Luis Obispo, CA only  
Blue Cross Senior Secure (California  
Care)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
$560.64  
$785.45  
Retirees  
under  
age 6S  
418.66  
$ 765.03  
$1033.99  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$127.30  
$296.66  
$589.75  
Retirees  
under 65  
Nat  
Available  
Nat  
Available  
Nat  
Available  
$307.85  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$334.14  
$451.95  
Retirees  
ator  
over 65  
$230.13  
$453.38  
$615.34  
Retirees  
at or over  
$169.06  
65 (SLO)!  
$165.66  
$345.53  
$567.38  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$59.64  
Aetna (Florida)  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Kaiser (Southern California}  
Senior Advantage  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Kaiser (Northern California)  
Senior Advantage  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Kaiser Mid-Atlantic (Wash DC)  
Medicare Choice  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Lovelace (New Mexico)  
Senior Plan  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
MD/IPA (Wash DC}  
Participant only  
Participant plus one dependent  
Participant plus two or more dependents  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$291.59  
$672.15  
$1180.18  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$ 89.28  
$213.74  
$473.17  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$89.28  
$213.74  
$473.17  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$157.92  
$351.00  
$695.70  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$233.43  
$529.33  
$847.18  
Retirees  
under  
age 65  
$146.81  
$289.52  
$780.51  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
### N/A  
### N/A  
### N/A  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$0.00  
$0.00  
$88.05  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$0.00  
$0.00  
$88.05  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$59.82  
$133.82  
$371.52  
Retirees  
at or  
over 65  
$0.00  
$0.00  
$0.00  
Retirees  
at or  
over 645  
Not available  
Not available  
Not available  
  
[  
### I  
f  
i  
Retirees Retirees  
under at or  
PacifiCare (Colorado) age 65 over 65  
Participant only $207.31 $16.63  
Participant plus one dependent $450.13 $47.44  
Participant plus two or more dependents $807.63 $297.94  
Retirees Retirees  
under at or  
PacifiCare (Arizona) age 65 over 65  
Participant only $988.10 $75.41  
Participant plus one dependent $2133.81 $165.00  
Participant plus two or more dependents $3348.00 $1272.19  
Retirees Retirees  
under at or  
TriCare age 65 over 65  
Participant only $0.00 Not offered  
Participant plus one dependent  
$0.00 Not offered  
Participant plus two or more dependents $0.00 Not offered  
### 1.3.13 DOMESTIC PARTNER TAX LIABILITY FOR NON-MEDICARE ELIGIBLE  
### RETIREES  
Participant only rates for employees who enroll their Domestic Partners and family as dependents are the  
same as those tm sections 1.2.1.1 and 1.1.1.2. The Internal Revenue Service has ruled that the actual cost  
of the domestic partner benefit is taxable income to the employee. This is not true for heterosexual  
married couples.  
To assist employees in determining their tax hability through the use of domestic partner benefits, the  
following table lists that liability on a monthly basis for each plan.  
    
    
     
    
   
      
Additional RE  
    
     
    
     
   
Additional ER  
     
   
     
   
        
      
      
          
        
     
   
RE Cost- Cost-Sharing | Costs with DP Total  
overage Sharing with Coverage Additional RE  
without DP DP Coverage [TAXABLE and ER Cost  
Coverage [POST-TAX| | INCOME TO with DP  
    
Cc  
-COMP Plan EE + | $307.85 $252.79 $211.00  
p  
   
     
   
   
   
    
       
EE Coverage  
-Base Plan EE + | $418.66 $346.37 $211.00 $557.37  
Of $418.66 | $615.33 | $230.00 | $845.33  
   
     
   
       
Kaiser  
(Southern EE + 1 $89.28 $124.46 $211.00 $335.46  
California)  
$383.89 $230.00 $613.89  
Kaiser  
(Northern EE+1 $89.28 $124.46 $211.00 $335.46  
California  
$89.28 $383.89 $230.00 $613.89  
PacificCare $207.31 $242.82 $211.00 $453.82  
CO EE + 1  
[$207.31 $600.32 $230.00 $830.32  
LoveLace  
NM EEF+1 $233.43 $295.90 $211.00 $506.90  
| $233.43 | $613.75 | $230.00 | $842.75  
### 1.3.1.4 DOMESTIC PARTNER TAX LIABILITY FOR MEDICARE RETIREES  
     
   
   
      
           
   
    
   
   
     
     
     
     
       
      
     
    
    
     
     
    
     
    
    
     
     
    
     
      
     
     
     
      
Additional RE | Additional ER  
RE Cost- Cost-Sharing Costs with DP Total  
Sharing with DP Coverage | Additional RE  
Plan Coverage without DP Coverage (TAXABLE and ER Cost  
### [POST-TAX] | INCOME TO .  
Coverage with DP  
EE] c  
overage  
    
Blue Cross  
-COMP Plan EE + ] $169.06 $165.08 $168.00 $333.08  
EE+F $169.06 $282.89 $294.00 $576.89  
Blue Cross  
-BASE Plan EE+ 1 $230.13 $223.25 $168.00 $391.25  
ae $230.13 $385.21 $294.00 $679.21  
CaliforniaCare  
Senior Secure EE + ] $59.64 $73.82 $168.00 $241.82  
      
      
    
     
a ee $59.64 $259.91 $294.00 $553.91  
CaliforniaCare  
Central Coast 1 $165.66 $179.87 $168.00 $347.87  
Kaiser  
EE + ] $0.00 $0.00 $142.90 $142.90  
California)  
a ae $0.00 $88.05 $294.00 $421.33  
Kaiser  
FE+1 $0.00 $0.00 $142.00 $142.90  
(Southern  
| $0.00 $88.05 $294.00 $421.33  
   
      
    
        
         
   
    
California)  
F-16  
f  
i  
F €  
i  
### I  
f  
i  
   
   
LoveLace  
NM EE + 1 $0.00 $0.00 $56.60 $56.60  
P| EEF $0.00 $0.00 $294.00 $393.45  
PacificCare  
CO $16.63 $30.81  
EE+F $16.63  
$281.31  
1.3.1.5 Safeguard Dental Plan (Effective 1/1/08)  
Safeguard Dental Monthly Premium  
    
    
        
     
       
$168.00 $198.81  
$294.00 975.  
$375.31  
      
Participant only $18.05  
   
Participant plus one dependent $30.14  
TTT TTT TT it aie oe  
Participant plus two or more dependenis $43.67  
### SECTION 2. MEDICAL/DENTAL/VISION PLAN DESCRIPTIONS  
The Group Hospital-Medical insurance Plan provides reimbursement of reasonable and customary  
covered expenses incurred as a result of non-occupational injury or illness for employees and their  
eligible dependents.  
   
The plan offers financial incentives in the form of higher benefit levels for participants who use  
physicians and hospitals from a PPO in California or from participating Blue Cross/Blue Shield providers  
outside California. In addition, there are financial incentives for using pre-admission testing, alternative  
birthing centers, skilled nursing facilities, home health care, and hospice care. To further encourage cost-  
effectiveness and guard against unnecessary medical procedures, the plan requires pre-certification of  
hospital admissions.  
### 2.1 COMPREHENSIVE MEDICAL PLAN  
2.1.1. Description of Comprehensive Plan (Blue Cross PPO)  
The Comprehensive Medical Plan provides reimbursement of reasonable and customary covered expenses  
incurred as a result of non-occupational injury or illness for enrolled employees, their spouse or domestic  
partner, the children of the employee, spouse or domestic partner and any other eligible dependents. This  
plan allows the use of any doctor or health care facility and reimburses participants for a percentage of  
eligible expenses after they meet an annual deductible. There is a $350 annual deductible for each family  
member with an annual maximum family deductible of $1,050. After the annual deductible ts satisfied  
and when services are rendered within the PPO network, the Comprehensive Plan pays a percentage of  
covered expenses at negotiated rates for the rest of year. When services are rendered outside the PPO  
network, the Plan pays a percentage of covered expenses at reasonable and customary rates. There is a  
yearly out-of-pocket maximum after which benefits are paid at 100% up to the lifetime maximum of $3.0  
million.  
Comprehensive Plan'  
F-17  
     
   
     
   
% paid by Plan (Network/Non-network providers 80/60  
Individual annual deductible $350  
Family annual deductible $1,050  
Individual annual out-of-pocket maximum  
$2,000 (In-network)  
network expenses apply to in-network maximum and vice $4,000 (Out-of-network)  
Family annual out-of-pocket maximum $6,000 (In-network)  
(Network expenses apply to in-network maximum and vice $12,000 (Out-of-network)  
Maximum lifetime benefit per person $3,000,000  
Annual restoration of maximum benefit $10,000  
' Plan pays 100% of covered expenses after payment of deductible and out-of-pocket maximum  
   
       
         
       
       
      
### 2.1.2 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT  
If you are enrolled in the Comprehensive Plan, you also have the benefit of a prescription drug plan.  
When you use a pharmacy in the plan, you pay a nominal amount for each brand name prescription filled,  
up to a 30-day supply, and an even smaller amount if you request generic drugs. In addition, maintenance  
prescriptions for a 90-day supply are available by mail order. Injectables are also covered.  
Prescription Drugs:  
90-Day Supply  
Maintenance Drugs  
by  
30-Day Supply at  
Prescription Drug Plan Participatin  
Pharmacies Mail Order  
Non-Preferred  
1 Additional surcharges apply at non-participating pharmacies.  
   
Injectables:  
20% of cost is covered up to a $100 maximum  
" Non-preferred drug copays will equal preferred drug copays if the prescribing physician indicates  
“Dispense as written” on the prescription.  
### SECTION 3. HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (HMOS)  
HMOs provide convenient prepaid health care with a special emphasis on preventive medicine.  
At most Aerospace locations, the employee may elect to enroll in an HMO. In addition, an  
employees domestic partner, and the children of the domestic partner may enroll in Califomia  
based HMO’s if they are residents of California.  
Some services are covered at 100%: others require a fee or copayment. Members may also  
obtain low-cost prescription drugs through HMO pharmacies.  
HMO Prescription Drug Benefits  
F-18  
  
### E  
3  
EF f  
### I  
i  
All offered HMOs offer some sort of prescription drug benefit. The character of these benefits  
depends on the plan.  
Below ts a summary of the changes for costs to prescriptions and services to the 2007 benefits:  
### HMO  
Aetna Florida and Ohio  
Blue Cross  
CealiforniaCare  
Kaiser Mid-Atlantic  
- Same as for Biue Cross  
Changes from the 2007 plan  
- All $5 conays increased to $10  
- $15 preferred brand copay  
- $30 non-preterred brand copay  
Comprehensive Plan  
$10 copay for allergy injections  
$50 fer emergency rocnm care  
   
Kaiser Northern. Kaiser South. Kais°r  
South Senior Advantage  
Lovelace  
$5C copay for emergency room  
$10 copay for generic crugs up toa  
30-day supply.  
$20 copay for brand name drugs up  
to a 30-day supply.  
$20 copay for generic drugs up to a  
100-day supply through Kaiser mail-  
order  
$40 copay for medically necessary  
brand name drugs up to 10-day  
supply through Kaiser mail-order  
Durable medical equipment — no  
charge  
Coverage extended for inembers outside  
the service area for certain purchases made  
at a plan facility or pharmacy  
   
     
Allergy Injections — no charge  
Ambulance — no charge  
Mental and Nervous maximum — 30  
days  
Well-baby care visiis - $10 copay  
$10 copay for generic drugs up to a  
30-day supply  
$20 copay for brand name drugs up  
to a 30 day supply  
$20 copay for generic drugs up to  
10G-day supply through Kaiser mail-  
order  
$40 copay for medically necessary  
brand name drugs up to 100-day  
supply through Kaiser mail-order  
$20 copay for specialist office visits  
Ambulance - $50 per ground trip  
    
    
### MD IPA  
    
   
Ambulance - $100 per trip by air  
$7 copay for 30-day supply of  
formulary generic drugs  
$15 copay for formulary brand name  
drugs  
Double copayment for 90-day mail-  
order  
$50 copay for allergy extract  
preparation in addition to office visit  
copies to specialist or primary care  
physician  
$150 copay for outpatient surgery  
$250 copay per admission to skilled  
nursing or convalescent facility  
$10 per visit up to combined 40  
‘visits per calendar year for physical.  
occupational and speech therapy  
including Home Health therapies  
Inpatient alcohol and drug abuse  
maximum to 30 days per calendar  
year  
$20 copay per visit to  
chiropractor/acupuncturist  
maximum 20 visits per calendar  
year  
$20 copay per outpatient mental  
health visit  
      
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
   
       
   
   
$10 copay for Tier 1 (generic) drugs  
$25 copay for Tier 2 (preferred  
brand name) drugs  
$35 copay for Tier 3 (non-preferred  
brand name) drugs  
MAMSI Pharmacy Services to  
integrate with United Healthcare  
Pharmacy Services  
    
   
   
   
     
[  
3  
fi sf  
### I  
f ja ft  
3  
3  
Therapies for congenital defects and birth  
anomalies covered from child’s 3™ to 6"  
birthdays; Coverage for mental disorders  
will be no less extensive than coverage for  
a physical illness  
Therapies for congenital defects and birth  
anomalies covered from child’s 3" to 6”  
birthdays; Coverage for mental disorders  
         
      
      
   
    
   
   
      
   
    
    
PacifiCare, AZ  
PacifiCare, CO  
will be no less extensive than coverage for  
physical illness  
Please contact Human Resources for full plan details.  
      
F-20  
E dg Ff  
### SECTION 4. TRICARE SUPPLEMENT PLAN  
TRICARE is the Department of health insurance program for the military community,  
including retired military personnel. TRICARE is no longer available through Aerospace as a company  
sponsored group plan. It is still available as an tndividual plan with subscribers paying 100% of the  
premium on an after-tax basis. Aerospace will continue to offer the convenience of payroll deductions  
only. Please contact the Benefits office for more details.  
### SECTION 5. RETIREE MEDICAL PLAN  
The Retiree Medical Plan provides benefits for bargaining unit employees entering retirement, their  
spouse and same-sex domestic partner. Opposite sex domestic partner may be eligible if they reside in  
California and one or both are age 62 or older, and meet the eligibility criteria under Title 1] of The Social  
Security Act. ‘Tne Plan also provides benefits tor survivors of retirees and survivors of active employees  
who died after reaching age 65. The Plan does not provide medical coverage directly; instead, it offsets  
part of the cost of the niedical plan selected by the retiree or survivor from among the options described in  
Section 2, Group 'ozpital-Medical Insurance Plan, and Section 3, Health Maintenance Organizations  
(HMOs).  
To fund the Plan, the company established and contributes money to a trust fund. Continued company  
contributions are subject to certain contingencies. Your rights and amount of benefit under the Plan will  
be determined in accordance with Plan language. the pertinent company Polices and Practices, and the  
date you were hired or rehired.  
The table below presents the current (monthly) values of the Defined Dollar Benefit (DDB) to be patd by  
the Retiree Medical Plan for calendar year 2008. Retirees (and survivors of retirees) hired or rehired on  
or after July 1. 1987, will receive a fraction of the DDB in accordance with the schedule in the table  
entitled “Percentage of Defined Dollar benefit to be paid by the Plan for Eligible Employees Hired or  
Rehired on or after July 1, 1987 (Tier B).” The participating retiree or survivor is required to share in the  
premiums for the medical provider of choice to the extent it exceeds the Plan’s current contribution.  
Monthly Defined Dollar Benefit to be Paid by the Plan for Eligible Retirees  
Monthly Defined Dollar  
Benefit from the Retiree  
Category Medical Plan (CY08)  
Retirees under 65  
Retiree only $247.00  
Retiree and $458.00  
Spouse/Same-Sex  
Domestic Partner  
Family $477.00  
Retirees over age 65  
Retiree only $183.00  
Retiree and $351.00  
Spouse/Same-Sex  
Domestic Partner  
Famil $477.00  
   
During the term of the collective bargaining agreement, a bargaining unit employee entering retirement  
will be charged the lesser of (i) the active employee premium cost-sharing rate or (it) the then-current  
retiree premium cost-sharing rate for the selected medical provider as determined by applying 100% of  
the DDB to the premium charged by the medical provider, regardless of the date of hire.  
Note that retirees can waive and subsequently restart retiree medical coverage provided. however, that  
there is no gap in medical coverage.  
Eligibility:  
You, and your dependents, are eligible for the Retiree Medical Plan, as summarized here, after you retire  
from regular active status if you:  
— Have at least 10 years of service and the last 5 years immediately before retirement are  
consecutive, and  
Are eligible for the company’s medical insurance plan immediately before retirement, and  
- Collect benefits from an Aerospace retirement plan.  
Surviving dependents of deceased retirees may continue to benefits from the Plan as long as  
they remain eligible. They will receive the same percentage of the Defined Dollar Benefit as the retiree  
would have received.  
Surviving dependents of active employees are eligible to receive benefits from the Plan if the following  
criteria are met:  
e Employee was at least age 65 at time of death.  
e Employee was covered under the corporation’s active medical coverage at time of his or her  
death.  
e Employee had at least 10 years of service and the last 5 years immediately before death were  
continuous.  
e Dependent (or dependents) was continuously covered for at least 12 months prior to employee’s  
death and is not eligible for any other group medical coverage.  
If the deceased employee was hired or rehired on or after July 1, 1987, the Tier B percentage will assume  
the employee had retired on the first day of the month of his death.  
Surviving dependents of retirees and eligible surviving dependents of active employees will continue to  
receive Plan benefits as long as they:  
e Are not eligible for other group medical coverage.  
e Do not remarry.  
e Pay the required cost sharing.  
e Enroll in Medicare Parts A, B and D when they become eligible.  
Eligible survivors must start paying the appropriate cost sharing on the first day of the month following  
the death of the retiree or active employee.  
Employees Hired or Rehired Before July 1, 1987 (Tier A):  
For employees hired before July 1, 1987, and upon retiring from active service, the Plan will pay 100% of  
the then-current Defined Dollar Benefit (DDB) towards the annual premium charged by the medical  
coverage provider selected by the retiree.  
Employees Hired or Rehired On or After July 1, 1987 (Tier B):  
F-22  
ie oe ee oe |  
a  
### E  
For employees hired or rehired on or after July 1, 1987, and upon retiring trom active service, the Plan  
will pay the following percentage of the then-current Defined Dollar Benefit (DDB) towards the annual  
premium charged by the medical coverage provider selected by the retiree:  
Percentage of Defined Dollar Benefit to be Paid by the Plan  
for Eligible Employees Hired or Rehired after July 1, 1987 (Tier B)  
   
       
Years of Percent of Years of Percent of  
Service DDB! Service DDB'  
at Retirement Plan Pays at Retirement Plan Pays  
10 34 a2 70  
11 37 23 73  
12 40 24 76  
13 43 25 79  
14 46 26 §2  
15 49 27 85  
    
       
     
    
   
    
    
    
   
    
    
   
16 $2 28 8&  
17 SS 29 9]  
18 58 30 94  
19 6] 31 97  
20 64 32 100  
2] 67 32 + 100  
' Defined Dollar Benefit  
All rehired employees receive credit for prior employment (computed on a monthly basis) with the  
company when calculating years of service.  
### CHANGES FROM 2007 RETIREE MEDICAL PLANS:  
Below is a summary of the changes for costs to prescriptions and/or services from the 2007 benefits. This  
is an incomplete list and retirees should contact the benefits cffice for complete ‘rformation.  
### LOVELACE:  
$15  
per month  
Covered thru Bridges of $15; limit #20 visits per  
Medicine ___Calendar year  
Bridges of Medicine-Alternative $20 copay: annual combined Not offered  
Medicine limit of $1500  
Safety Devices-such as Grab Not Covered $0-Prior Authorization  
Bars, Shower Chairs, Raised Required  
Toilet Seats and hand held  
shower’s requires prior  
authorization. Limit once every  
5 years, installation not covered  
Drugs-Medicare Part B $10/20  
   
        
     
Name Novolin or Novolog  
Prescriptions (30 day Supply)  
Preferred Generic  
    
    
      
       
     
     
Covered under Tier 2- Name Covered under Tier 1-Generic  
Brand $20 copa $5 copa  
$5  
$10  
   
        
   
    
   
   
   
   
     
   
    
   
    
Preferred Brand $20 $32  
Non-Preferred $40 $62  
Specialty Drugs $40 $62  
     
   
   
After the members yearly out-of-  
pocket drug cost reach $4050,  
they pay the greater of $2.25 for  
Generic; $5.60 for all others or  
5% coinsurance  
After the members yearly out-of-  
pocket drug cost reaches $3850,  
they pay the greater of $2.15 for  
Generic; $5.35 for all others or  
5% coinsurance  
Coverage Limits  
      
    
    
### SECTION 6. DENTAL INSURANCE PLANS  
The Dental Plan gives employees the option to choose between one of two types of plans to help meet  
dental expenses. Coverage begins on the employee’s first day at work Plan provisions differ, but some  
procedures are provided at little or no cost in both of the plans. Some procedures, such as orthodontia,  
require a fee or co-payment.  
The employees pays 25% and the Corporation pays 75% of the applicable dental premium.  
The employee, their spouse or domestic partner and the employees or domestic partners dependent  
children are eligible for coverage.  
### DELTA DENTAL PLAN  
This plan pays a percentage of usual, reasonable, and customary dental fees for diagnostic and preventive  
procedures, without any deductible. After a yearly per person deductible is paid, the plan pays a  
percentage of usual, reasonable, and customary dental fees for oral surgery, endodontic, periodontic,  
restorative, orthodontic, prosthodontics procedures and TMJ (Temporo-Mandibular Joint) appliances.  
Cleanings are covered twice in a calendar year. Sealants are also covered for first molars to age 9 and to  
second molars to age 14. There is an annual limit toward reimbursement of covered charges for each  
eligible person. The plan pays a lower benefit level for orthodontic expenses for dependent children, up to  
a lifetime limit for each child.  
Delta Dental Plan  
    
     
      
Provisions of service Direct reimbursement; after deductible, plan pays 70%  
Annual deductible None for diagnostic or preventive; $25 for all other  
procedures  
Annual maximum benefit $2,000 per person  
Orthodontic coverage/charge 50% up to lifetime maximum of $2000 for children  
   
       
            
### PREPAID DENTAL PLANS  
A prepaid dental plan provides dental care for its members through a number of contracting dental  
offices. When you enroll in a prepaid plan, you must select one of the plan’s dental offices where you and  
your eligible family members will receive dental care. Many services are covered at 100% with no annual  
deductible; others services require a co-payment.  
5 trait  
i  
3 £2 Ef  
i  
3 FS € Ff  
]  
3  
if  
5  
f  
[  
### J  
i  
oe |  
7  
The cost of the coverage is shared Jointly by the employees and Aerospace. Employees pay their share of  
the premium through a payroll deduction plan on a pre- or post-tax basis.  
### SECTION 7. VISION CARE PLAN  
Vision care coverage for regular employees and their eligible dependents begins on the employee's first  
day at work. After an annual deductible, plan provisions provide for an annual eye exam, lenses every 12  
months, frames every 24 months, and the choice of cortact lenses (in lteu of glasses). Laser vision cate is  
also available at reduced rates. The plan also offers financial incentives in the form of higher benefit  
levels for participants who use plan providers. Aerospace employees pay the entire cost of the vision care  
coverage through payroll deductions on a pre- or post-tax basis.  
The following change to the vision care plan will be implemented beginning in CY 2004:  
- Same-sex Domestic Partner is eligible tor all vision care benefits that are available to marned  
couples.  
- The corporation is adding the “Computer Vision Care Program” begmning CY05. This program  
has no extra charge  
### SECTION 8. FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNT (FSA) PLAN  
The FSA plan provides employees a way to use pretax dollars to pay some of the health expenses, such as  
deductibles and co-payments and dependent care expenses not covered by other benefit plans. Employees  
authorize Aerospace to put part of their weekly paycheck into the FSA before income taxes are deducted.  
Throughout the year, the money in the account can be used to reimburse their eligible out-of-pocket  
health care and dependent care expenses. Eligibility begins on the first day of regular employment.  
Any and all “major life events” allowable under IRS regulations are applicable to the FSA plan.  
There are two separate FSA plans. Employees may contribute up to a certain limit te the Health Care  
Account for health care expenses that are not reimbursed by any other benefit plans. Also, employees  
may contribute to the Dependent Care Account for necessary dependent care expenses such as babysitters  
or licensed day care centers so that the employee and spouse can work. Employees have the option of  
signing up for a Dependent Care account outside of the Open Enrollment period if a major life event has  
occurred within the previous 31 days. Both accounts have yearly maximum limits on the amounts  
employees can contribute.  
Requests for reimbursement of eligible expenses may be submitted throughout the calendar year.  
Amounts are contributed to the FSA plans over a 12-month plan year. Contributions made during this 12-  
month plan year can be applied to qualified benefit expenses that are incurred over a 14.5 month period.  
This means that contributions made between January and December of the calendar year can be used for  
expenses incurred between January and March 15" of the next calendar year. All requests must be  
submitted no later than April 30" of the subsequent calendar year.  
lf the monies, after extraordinary administrative costs, exceed on average $1.00 per participant in either  
the Health Care or the Dependent Care accounts, the monies shall be refunded to participants in the  
account(s) with the excess after administrative costs during the next year on a per capita basis.  
### SECTION 9. TEMPORARY DISABILITY PLANS  
The temporary disability plans at Aerospace provide a weekly income to a covered employee who is  
totally disabled because of a non-occupational illness or injury. These plans provide a weekly income of  
up to $840 a week for up to 52 weeks in conjunction with the supplemental sick pay provided by the  
company.  
State Disability Insurance (SDI) is automatic for Aerospace employees in California. Temporary  
disability coverage is optional for employees outside California. In order for employees outside California  
to be eligible for STD, they must enroll in the STD plan appropriate for their state. See Human Resources  
for more information. You must file a claim for temporary disability if the employee is to be absent, or 1s  
absent from work for more than seven consecutive days under SDI or seven consecutive days under STD.  
The disability must be doctor-certified. For maternity disability, benefits are payable beginning up to  
four weeks before the delivery date. For employees outside of California enrolled in the STD plan, you  
also must file a claim if you are confined overnight as an inpatient in a hospital or if you have outpatient  
surgery.  
### SECTION 10. PAID FAMILY LEAVE  
California Paid Family Leave (PFL) (also referred to as Family Temporary Disability Insurance  
(FTDI)) provides family leave benefits to employees in California who take time off from work  
to care for a seriously ill child, spouse, parent or domestic partner or to bond with a new child.  
PFL covers all full and part-time workers in California.  
Employees will be able to maintain health and welfare benefits while on Paid Family Leave,  
including medical insurance, dental insurance, vision care, Flexible Spending Account,  
temporary and long-tem disability insurances. life insurance and accident insurance. This benefit  
is not currently available to employees working outside of California.  
There is a seven (7) day waiting period before benefits are paid. The waiting period does not  
need to be a consecutive period of time. Vacation may be used for this waiting period.  
The benefit payments received are approximately 55% of the earnings up to a maximum of $840  
per week . The corporation does not provide supplemental pay (differential between leave pay  
and salary) during the period of leave. Benefits are payable for up to six (6) weeks during a 12-  
month period. The leave can be intermittent.  
PFL must be taken concurrently with family care and medical leave under the Family and  
Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and the (California Family Rights Act) CFRA, which runs for up to  
12 weeks and provides job protection for that period. PFL does not provide job protection or  
return rights. Employees who may have run out of leave time under FMLA will not have job  
protection under PFL.  
Female employees may file for PFL benefits once pregnancy SDI benefit coverage ends.  
Information on PFL, including forms, is available through the California Employment  
Development Department (EDD) (http://www.edd.ca.gov). The Corporation requires additional  
forms that must normally be filed 30 days before leave is taken. For unforeseen events, the  
corporation requires that notification be given as soon as possible and no later than one or two  
€ € 8 £8  
{  
i  
(  
{ 3  
3  
i  
### DE  
### E  
### J  
days after the employee is aware of the need ior leave (see Corporation Fractice HR-3-8 for  
additional details).  
### SECTION 11. LONG TERM DISABILITY (LTD) PLAN. LONG TERM  
### DISABILITY SUPPLEMENTAL INCOME PROTECTION PLAN AND  
### LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE POLICY  
The Long Term Disability Plan (LTD Plan) and the Long Term Disability Supplemental Income  
Protection Plan (LTDSIP Plan) provide a regular monthly income after six months of total disability.  
During the first 24 months of benefits, you are considered totally disabled if you cannot perform each of  
the material duties of your regular occupation. After 24 months benefits will continue only if you cannot  
perform each of the material duties of any gainful occupation for which you are reasonably fitted by  
training, education, or experience. The Plan wil] also pay benefits for partial disability up to 24 months if  
you are able to work part time. Please see HR for more details.  
Employees may choose to enroll in the LTD Plan only, or they may enroll in the LTD Plan and the  
LTDSIP Plan. For full-time employees, the amount of your monthly disability income provided by the  
LTD Plan is equal to 60% of your monthly rate of basic earnings (up to a maximum of $10,000 per  
month). LTD benefits may be reduced by other disability benefits you receive, including Social Security  
Disability. The LTD Plan also includes an additional “Disability Plus” benefit of 20% of your monthly  
rate of basic earnings (up to a maximum of an additional $5,000 per month) for cognitive impairment or  
inability to perform certain “Activities of Daiiy Living” (ADLs).  
If you are enrolled i the LTD Plan and the LTDSIP Plan, you will receive the benefit of the LTD Plan  
plus an additional of your monthly rate of basic earnings (up to a maxtraurr of $5,000 per month  
from the LTDSIP Plan portion).  
The weekly cost for this coverage varies depending on the option you elect. For the LTD Plan there are  
two options:  
### OPTION A  
You pay half the cost of this coverage and Aerospace pays the other halt. Under this option, 30° of the  
LTD benefits you receive would be considered taxable income.  
### OPTION B  
You pay the full cost of this coverage. Under this option, any LTD benefits you receive would not be  
considered taxable income.  
If you switch from Option A to Option B, there will be a three-year window in which the insurance  
carrier will look back and adjust the taxability of your LTD benefit. The taxability of your benefits  
will be prorated based on when you elected coverage under the full cost coverage. Once you have  
paid the full cost of the coverage for three years, any LTD benefits you receive would not be  
considered taxable income.  
### LTDSIP PLAN  
F-27  
The LTDSIP Plan is available for only those enrolled in the LTD Plan. It is individually underwritten  
(premiums are based on age, salary and other variables, see HR for more details). The premiums are  
100% employee paid and the benefits are not taxable.  
Existing employees were offered a one-time opportunity to enroll in the LTDSIP Plan in the fall of 2006.  
New hires will be offered a one-time opportunity to enroll. Subsequent enrollment in LTDSIP after the  
initial period of eligibility requires evidence of insurability. Each year participating employees will be  
given an opportunity to accept a higher premium to cover additional income resulting from yearly raises.  
If you decline this opportunity, your LTDSIP Plan benefit will be permanently frozen at the current level.  
### LTDSIP PLAN OPTION TO EXCHANGE FOR LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE  
### AFTER AGE 60  
Those enrolled in the LTDSIP Plan can exchange this plan with the LTC exchange option for a long term  
care insurance policy (LTC Insurance Policy) from age 60 through 70 (if not disabled) or from age 65  
through 70 (if disabled) without submitting evidence of insurability. The current base policy LTC benefit  
amount will be $3,000 per month (or $100 per day, if state-required) for a maximum period of six years. |  
Additional coverage options are available through full underwriting. Please see HR for more details.  
### SECTION 12. LIFE INSURANCE PLANS  
Coverage of Basic Life Insurance of one times your annual salary is automatic upon regular employment  
at The Aerospace Corporation. You also may elect to purchase supplemental life insurance equal to one,  
two, three, four, or five times your annual salary rounded to the nearest thousand to a maximum of  
$1,000,000. Except for new hires and newly eligible dependents who enrol! within thirty-one days of  
their eligibility effective date, evidence of insurability will be required for those who enroll in or increase  
their life insurance coverage.  
You may also purchase limited life insurance coverage for your spouse, domestic partner and/or  
dependent children of the employee or domestic partner only if you elect additional life insurance for  
yourself. The cost for spousal or domestic partner coverage is based on your spouse’s or domestic  
partner's age at the time application is made to the insurance company. Coverage for eligible dependent  
children is available at flat weekly rates.  
If you are a part-time employee (working between twenty and forty hours a week), your annual salary for  
purposes of determining payroll deductions is your hourly pay rate times 20 times 52.  
Existing life insurance coverage continues for thirty-one (31) days following termination of employment.  
Terminated employees have the option, within thirty-one (31) days of the date of termination, of  
converting their employee life insurance to an individual whole-life insurance policy. No evidence of  
insurability is required during the thirty-one day grace period.  
Existing life insurance coverage continues for thirty-one (31) days following the date of formal  
retirement. Employees entering retirement have the option, within thirty-one (31) days of the date of  
retirement, of converting their employee life insurance minus retiree coverage to an individual whole-life  
insurance policy. No evidence of insurability is required during the thirty-one day grace period.  
During approved leaves of absence or after termination of employment due to a reduction in force, you  
may continue your life insurance coverage as follows:  
Leave of absence Up to 3 calendar months  
Reduction in force Up to 2 calendar months  
Military leave of absence Up to 6 calendar months  
F-28  
t€) €.8  
3 td € Ft  
f  
i  
### I  
### UE DE  
f  
You will still have to pay your share of the premiums during these periods.  
If you become totally disabled before age 65 while you are insured. your life insurance coverage will  
continue for the first 6 months as long as you continue to pay your portion of the premiums.  
### SECTION 13. OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE PLAN  
Occupational Accident Insurance provides the employees protection for accidental death and  
dismemberment that occurs while on the job. traveling or company business, ur commuting directly to  
and from the home to their place of work and for certain specified hazards. These benefits  
are in addition to Workers’ Compensation benefits.  
The amount of the benefit coverage for accidents is four times the employee’s basic annual salary (not  
less than $50,000 and not more than $400,000} less any amount paid or payable fer the same accident  
under the American Express Card Member Travel program (or any replacement thereof) sponsored by the  
Aerospace Corporation.  
If American Express pays more than tour times the empioyee’s annual salary, the excess will not be  
collected from the employee's estate. Effective January 1, 2003. if a benefit ts payable under the  
American Express Card Member Travel program. an additional $50,000 will be payable by Zurich.  
Benefits are distributed accordmg to the following:  
### OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE LOSS COVERAGE  
Loss Benefit Paid  
Life Full amount  
One hand, one foot, sight of one eye, speech. or hearing One-half amount  
Two or more of the above Full amount  
Thumb and index finger of the same kand One-fourth amount  
### SECTION 14. VOLUNTARY PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE PLAN  
You can protect your family from accidents anywhere in the world, whether on business, vacation, or at  
home with the Voluntary Personal Accident Insurance. You have the opportunity to elect coverage for  
yourself only, for you and your spouse, or for you and your entire family. The maximum amount of  
coverage that you are eligible to elect is ten times your salary up to a maximum of $600,000. Eligible  
employees and their dependents that work at Aerospace can be enrolled only under one enrollment form,  
either as an employee or as a dependent, but not both.  
The employee shall select the amount of coverage for themselves up to $600,000 but any amount chosen  
over $300,000 may not be more than 10 times their basic annual salary. Spousal and dependent children  
coverage shall also be available. The maximum coverage available are $500,000 for the spouse and  
$50,000 for each child. Benefits are distributed according to the following:  
Loss Coverage  
     
Benefit Paid  
   
Life Full amount  
One hand. one foot, sight of one eye, speech, or hearing One-half amount  
Two or more of the above Full amount  
| Thumb and index finger of the same hand | One-fourth amount |  
If the employee who has elected family coverage suffers loss of life in a covered accident, the insurance  
company shall pay to the surviving children 3% of the employee’s salary (maximum of $3000 per year  
for each child) for tuition charged by an accredited day care center provided the child is enrolled within  
90 days of the accident. This benefit is payable up to four consecutive years per child.  
If the employee who has selected family coverage suffers loss of life in a covered accident, the insurance  
in force on the remainder of the family shall continue at no further cost for a period on one year from the  
date of loss.  
If the employee suffers loss of life in an automobile accident while wearing a seat belt, the insurance  
company shail pay an additional 10% of the employee’s Principal Sum (maximum of $10,000) to the  
beneficiary. Note: this part of the benefit is void if the employee was the driver under the influence of  
alcohol or illega! drugs.  
If the employee becomes totally and permanently disabled within 180 days of a covered accident and the  
disability lasts for | year. or more, (cannot perform any job for which you were educated or trained) the  
employee shall receive full benefit (loss of life) less benefit allowances paid for dismemberment/  
functional losses. The maximum benefit is limited to $250,000 and only covers the employee.  
Except for retirement, if the employee becomes ineligible for any other reason, they shall have the option  
to convert to an individual policy with limits up to $250,000.  
The following change to the voluntary personal accident insurance plan will be implemented beginning in  
CY 2004:  
— Same-sex Domestic Partners are eligible for all life insurance benefits that are available to  
married couples.  
### SECTION 15. AEROSPACE SAVINGS ACCOUNT PLAN (ASAP)  
The Aerospace Savings Account Plan (ASAP) is a defined contribution plan qualified under [IRC Section  
401. The Plan is designed to assist employees in achieving their retirement income goals. The  
Corporation provides a weekly 8% Company Contribution for all eligible employees hired before Apmil 2,  
2005. The Corporation provides a weekly 4% Company Contribution for all eligible employees hired  
after 1 April 2005.  
Bargaining unit employees hired or rehired after December 31, 1992, are covered under the Aerospace  
Savings Account Plan.  
### ELIGIBILITY  
Prior to 1 October 2004, in order to be eligible for a Company Contribution, an employee must be paid  
for 1000 hours during a Plan Year. A Plan Year is a fiscal year beginning on October | of each year and  
ending on the following September 30. Company Contributions are allocated to an employee's individual  
ASAP account after the end of the Plan Year based on the total hours paid during the Plan Year. Eligible  
employees who receive Company Contributions are fully vested at the time contributions are allocated to  
their account. Contributions are also made for employees who are not paid for 1000 hours during a plan  
year if they go on long-term disability or are terminated due to a reduction in force, retirement or death.  
After 30 September 2004, all full-time and part-time employees are eligible for a weekly Company  
Contribution. Temporary and casual employees must be paid for 1000 hours during a Plan Year. A Plan  
F-30  
Ee &@ F € FE  
f  
i  
i af  
f  
j  
  
i dj  
Year is a fiscal year beginning on October 1, of each year and ending on the following September 30.  
Company Contributions are allocated to an employee's individual ASAP account after the end of the Plan  
Year based on the total hours paid during the Plan Year. Eligible employees who receive Company  
Contributions are fully vested at the time contributions are allcca‘ed to their account. Contributions are  
also made for employees who are not paid for 1000 hours during a plan year if they go on long-term  
disability or are terminated due to a reduction in force, retirement or death.  
There was a one-time option tor employees hired before 1 April 2005 to transfer into the ASAP Plan  
between 25 July 2005 and 19 August 2005. The Company weekly contribution for these employees will  
he reduced trom 8° to 4% of weekly salary!.  
### EMPLOYEE INVESTMENT CHOICE  
Company Contributions!  
Period of October 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004:  
   
For the pertod of Ocisber 1, 2004 to Decimber 31, 2004, the Corporation made a one-ume transfer to  
Fidelity of the -wed to each regular ASAP sinployee for the time period between October  
1, 2004 and December 71, 2004. The eligible ASAP plan participants received a single lump sum deposit  
into their individual Fidelity accounts in January 2005. The deposit was composed of the Company  
Contribution based on plan compensation paid during the Plan Quarter. Any regular bargaining unit  
employee who terminated during the period between October 1, 2004 and December 31, 2004 will  
receive their Company Contribution.  
Period After December 31, 2004:  
   
Beginning January 1, 2005, the Corporation will transfer the ASAP Company Contributions to Fidelity  
no less frequently than weekly. The eligible ASAP plan participants will receive a lump sum deposit into  
their individual Fidelity accounts each week. The deposit will be composed of the Company Contribution  
based on plan compensation paid.  
Employee Benefits Earned  
Period of October 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004:  
   
For the period of October 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004, all regular eligible ASAP employees received a  
Company Contribution based on plan compensation' received during the period. The entire Company  
Contribution tor the period of October 1. 2004 to December 31, 2004 will be paid out and allocated to  
eligible ASAP plan participants’ individual accounts by January, 2005.  
The allocated funds to each individual account were invested as specified by each individual (see  
Employee Investment Options below), or in the default account (see below). on or about January, 2005.  
Fidelity will provide an updated statement on their website for each ASAP individual that shows the  
newly deposited funds and how they were invested.  
! Prior to 1 October 2005, the Plan compensation used for determining C ompanv contributions under the Plan is  
defined as the employee's actual paid base salary, EWW, shift differential and overtime, but excludes any awards  
or bonuses and shall not exceed such an amount as provided under the IRC §401(a)(17) limits indexed annually.  
Beginning | October 2005, the Plan compensation used for determining Company Contributions under the Plan is  
defined as the employee's actual paid base salary, awards, and bonuses, but excludes any EWW, shiit differential.  
or overtime and shall not exceed such an amount as provided under the IRC §401(a)(17) limits indexed annually.  
This information will provide the following for each individual:  
1. The amount actually transferred to the Participant's designated ASAP account(s) for the period of  
October 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004 (i.e., 8% of plan compensation’).  
2. The overall investment performance of the allocated funds during the period reported.  
Period After December 31, 2004:  
   
For the period after December 31. 2004, all eligible regular ASAP plan participants received a Company  
Contribution based on their current weekly plan compensation'!. The allocated funds to each individual  
account will be invested as specified by each individual (see Employee Investment Options below), or in  
the default account (see below). Fidelity will provide an updated statement to each ASAP individual  
quarterly that shows the newly deposited funds and how they were invested  
This information will provide the following for each individual:  
1, The amount actually transferred to the Participant's designated ASAP account( s) after December 31,  
2004 (i.e., 8% of plan compensation’).  
2. The overall investment performance of the allocated funds during the period reported.  
Employees Hired after 1 April 2005 or Who Transferred into the ASAP Plan:  
For employees hired after April 1, 2005 or who transferred into ASAP, all eligible regular ASAP plan  
participants will recetve a Company Contribution based on their current weekly plan? compensation. The  
allocated funds to each individual account will be invested as specified by each individual (see Employee  
Investment Options below), or in the default account (see below). Fidelity will provide an updated  
statement to each ASAP individual quarterly that shows the newly deposited funds and how they were  
invested.  
This information will provide the following for each individual:  
1. The amount actually transferred to the Participant’s designated ASAP account(s) (i.e., 4% of plan  
compensation).  
2. The overall investment performance of the allocated funds during the period reported.  
Employee Investment Options  
Each participant in ASAP will have the option to select and invest in one or more Fidelity mutual funds  
from the group below. The selection in each mutual fund will be specified in percentages of the total  
converted balance and future contributions. Forms to select the mutual funds for balance transfer and  
future contributions will be mailed to all ASAP eligible employees prior to April 1, 2001.  
The employees will be able to invest in any or all of the following specific mutual funds in any category:  
2 After 1 October 2005, the Plan compensation used for determining Company Contributions under the Plan is  
defined as the employee's actual paid base salary, awards, and bonuses, but excludes any EWW, shift differential,  
or overtime and shall not exceed such an amount as provided under the IRC §401(a)(17) limits indexed annually.  
F-32  
|  
  
i  
f  
i  
}  
  
€ 2 € 8B  
a  
Catego Mutual Fund  
Money Market Fidelity Retirement Money Market Portfolio  
Core Fixed Income (Passive} Fidelity U S Bond Index Fund  
Large Cap Core Equity (Passive) Fidelity Spartan U.S. Eguity Index Fund  
Fidelity Growth Company Fund  
Large Cap Equity Grantham Mayo Van Citerioo (GMQ) Growth Il Fund  
Large Cap Value Equi Fidelity Equity Income Fund  
Morgan Stanley Institutional Fund Trust  
Sap Equity Mid- Cap Growth Portfolio  
Mid/Sniall Cap Value Equity Fideiity Low-Priced Stock Funda (Ciosed to new investors  
Mid/Small Cap Value Equity.  
International Equi  
Lifecycle Funds:  
Group Nearest Retirement  
Group Nearing Retirement Fidelity Freedom 2005 Fund  
Group Nearing Retirement Fidelity Freedom 2010 Sund  
Mid-Career Group Fidelity Freedom 2015 Fund  
Fidelity Freedom 2020 Fund  
Early/Mid Career Group  
Group Early in Career Fidelity Freedom 2030 Fund  
   
   
The ASAP participant will not incur any fees above and beyond the annua! fees charged to the retail  
investor for at least five years. There will not be any loads on any funds offered in the plan, nor any  
minimum balance requirements. Some funds may have redemption fees for short holding periods.  
Fidelity will provide quarterly statements to the ASAP participant.  
Default Account  
In the absence of a mutual fund allocation selection by an ASAP participant, the transfer  
balance will be invested in the Fidelity Freedom Fund appropriate to the individual’s age and expected  
retirement date. In the absence of an allocation selection for future contributions. the employee's future  
contributions will also be invested in the appropriate Freedom Fund.  
Rollover and Statement Consolidation  
ASAP participants will have the option to roll over other qualified retirement account funds for  
investment with Fidelity after July 1, 2001. Fidelity will provide a single, consolidated statement for  
ASAP, rolled-over accounts, and funds invested with Fidelity in Aerospace's Voluntary Annuity/Account  
Plan.  
### COLLECTING BENEFITS  
Contributions and any earnings or losses are distributed to the account or their beneficiaries if  
they go on long-term disability or upon termination of employment due to a reduction in force,  
retirement, or death. Distributions are allowable in lump sum or through systematic withdrawals. A  
payment will be made in a single lump sum as soon as administratively feasible after termination of  
employment, if requested. If the employee goes on long-term disability, or terminates due to a reduction  
F-33  
in force, retirement, or death, the Corporation's final contributions are made based on the base salary paid  
through the date of long term disability, or termination due to a reduction in force, retirement, or death.  
All distributions of Company Contributions may be rolled over directly into an Individual Retirement  
Arrangement (IRA) or into another employer's eligible retirement plan.  
Participants have the option of leaving the money in ASAP if they terminate employment with the  
Corporation as long as their account value is over $5,000.  
### OTHER PROVISIONS  
Age 59-1/2 Distributions  
An employee who is age 59-1/2 or older is eligible to withdraw vested ASAP benefits. Only one  
withdrawal can be made in a Plan Year. Ali withdrawals are subject to income tax.and some may be  
subject to penalty taxes. Distributions may be eligible for rollover to an IRA or another employer’s plan.  
Qualified Domestic Relations Orders (QDRO) — Distributions  
A QDRO is a court order that assigns all or part of an ASAP benefit to an alternate payee  
(e.g., former spouse). Currently, an alternate payee can receive a distribution prior to the  
termination of employment, retirement, or death.  
### SECTION 16. AEROSPACE EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT PLAN (AERP)  
(For Individuals Hired Prior to 1/1/93 (AERP1) and After 4/1/05(AERP2)  
or who hired Before 4/1/05 and After 1/1/93 and made choice  
The Aerospace Employees' Retirement Plan (Plan) is a defined benefit plan. Pension benefits from AERP  
are paid entirely by The Aerospace Corporation. Aerospace puts money into a trust fund that pays  
benefits to retirees and survivors. The fund is managed by professional investors and is insured by the  
Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC).  
The AERP consists of two parts: the Fixed Benefit and the Variable Benefit. Participants accrue benefits  
in both.  
### OPTIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS  
Effective March 31, 2003. the AERP Optional Contributions Plan will be frozen. No new contributions  
are allowed, Current balances remain in AERP, and participants retain the current investment options  
(112 Fidelity funds). The participants may withdraw their investments as a lump sum or as a deferred  
annuity at termination of employment or retirement.  
Effective April 1, 2003, in-service withdrawals are allowed at any age (earnings are subject to excise tax  
if withdrawn prior to age 59 14). Rollover of the participant’s investment into the new After-Tax Savings  
Option is allowed.  
### ELIGIBILITY  
Individuals hired prior to 1/1/93 became participants and were eligible to accrue benefits under  
after 12 consecutive months of employment. Full-time and part-time employees hired after 4/1/2005  
become eligible to accrue benefits under AERP2 starting on 10/1/2005. There was a one-time option  
between | July 2005 and 30 July 2005 for employees hired before 1 April 2005 to start accruing future  
benefits under the AERP Plan. All casual and temporary employees will accrue benefits under the  
F-34  
f  
Fs € 3 € 3  
  
3  
f 3 ¢f  
3  
é  
re re ne |  
3  
f  
f 3  
i i  
AERP? plan. starting on 10/1/2005 after being paid tor }000 hours during the plan year as long as they are  
still employed by Aerospace at the end of the plan year. Employees in AER?2 who start Long Term  
Disability (LTD) after 1 October 2005 will have no Plan Compensation and will not accrue AERP2  
benefits while on LTD.  
### VESTING  
Individuals are vested after completing five years of service. Snecial rules apply for reductions-in-force.  
The five year vesting will be waived for all individuals who were hired before 1 April 2005 and who opt  
to start accruing future benefits under the AERP Plan.  
### FIXED BENEFIT  
This benefit defines a specific dollar income during your retirement based on your salary and length of  
service. Thts benetit may be increased up to 2 percent anr.ually (cost-of-living adjustment) each January  
1, for retirees and 10,1 for active employees depending on changes in the consumer price index during the  
Plan year ending the preceding September 30. This adjustment applies to the Fixed Benefit only.  
### VARIABLE BENEFIT  
This benefit consists of a pertfolic of diversified investments and is expressed in terms of units rather than  
dollars. Retirement income from this fund depends on annual fund performance, your salary, and length  
of service. Benefits from this fund fluctuate with the market value of the portfolio of investments both  
before and after retirement. The dollar value of the units changes each year depending on investment  
gains and losses. The accrual process produces a monthly benefit at retirement.  
### ACCRUAL OF BENEFITS  
### PRIOR TO OCTOBER 1, 2005 AERP1 ONLY  
Fixed Benefit  
The Plan Compensation is calculated by adding 25% of the monthly salary in effect as of the  
first day of the Plan year (October |) and 75% of the monthly salary in effect on the foliowing January 1.  
To determine monthly salary, the weekly salary 1s multiplied by 52 and the result is then divided by 12.  
For full time employees? who participate in the Plan for the entire Plan Year (2000 hours or more). the  
formula for the Fixed Benefit 1s:  
0.5% of Plan monthly salary, up to $800  
plus  
1.0% of Plan monthly salary, over $800  
Variable Benefit  
1.0% of Plan monthly salary as detined above. divided by the purchase value of a variable unit on  
September 30 at the end of the Plan year.  
### AFTER OCTOBER 1, 2005, AERP1 ONLY  
3 if the individual is employed for the entire Plan year but works less than 1,000 hours of service, the individual will  
accrue no benefits for the Plan year. If the individual becomes a Plan participant or terminates employment  
during the Plan year, the benefits will be prorated on the basis of a fractional! vear of service. If the individual is a  
Plan participant during the entire Plan year but worked less than 2,000 hours, the accrued benefit will be a ratable  
portion of the full benefit.  
The benefit accrued is based on Eligible Plan Compensation and the Integration level (for the fixed  
benefit). Plan Compensation includes base pay, variable pay such as performance recognition payments  
and awards. It does not include compensation for extended workweek, overtime or shift differentials.  
Fixed Benefit  
The integration level for an annual fixed benefit accrual under AERP 1 is fixed at $9,600 and the formula  
1S:  
0.5% of Eligible Plan Compensation up to $9,600  
Plus  
1.0% of Eligible Plan Compensation in excess of the integration level  
Variable Benefit  
The annual variable unit accrual is determined as follows:  
1.0% of Eligible Plan Compensation divided by the purchase value of a variable unit on the last day of the  
Plan Year.  
After October 1, 2005 AERP 2 Only  
For employees hired after 1 April 2005 and those hired before 1 April 2005 who opt to accrue future  
benefits under the AERP 2 Plan, the benefit accrued is based on Eligible Plan Compensation and the  
integration level (for the fixed benefit). Plan Compensation includes base pay, variable pay such as  
performance recognition payments and awards. It does not include compensation for extended  
workweek, overtime or shift differentials.  
Fixed Benefit  
The integration level for the Fixed Benefit is 50% of the Social Security Wage Base at the beginning of  
the Plan Year and the formula for the annual accrual of the Fixed Benefit is:  
0.25% of Eligible Plan Compensation up to the integration level (50% of the Social Security Base  
Wage (currently $97,500 (2007))  
plus  
0.5% of Eligible Plan Compensation over the integration level (50% of the Social Security Base  
Wage (currently $97,500 (2007))  
Variable Benefit  
The annual variable unit accrual is determined as follows:  
0.5% of Eligible Plan Compensation divided by the purchase value of a variable unit on the last day of the  
Plan Year.  
### PRERETIREMENT SURVIVOR ANNUITY (PRSA)  
If a vested employee dies before retirement, the spouse may be eligible to collect pension benefits. The  
benefit is available as long as there is a spouse who has not waived the coverage. There is a cost for this  
coverage for eligible participants in the plan prior to 1 October 2005, which results in a permanent  
reduction to the total accrued benefits. After 30 September 2005, the AERP Plan will pay the cost of the  
coverage for all AERP Plan participants who were in active status on October 1, 2005. Eligible  
F-36  
(  
3 ES 3 €  
  
### I  
i  
26d  
}  
é  
3  
### F EF E  
i  
ij  
t 3  
terminated participants who left the company before October 1 will continue to have the PRSA charge  
deducted from their pension.  
If an empleyee dies before age 55, the PRSA is one-half the amount (less the cost of the coverage) that  
would have been paid had the employee retired as a former employee with the Spousal S0-percent Joint  
and Survivor Annuity in effect on the first of the month after reaching age 55. The employee's spouse is  
not eligible to receive payments until the date the employee would have reached age 55.  
If an employee dies after age 55, the PRSA is one-half the amount (less the cost of the coverage) that  
would have been paid to the employee had the employee retired the first of the month after the  
employee's death with the Spousal 50-Percent Joint and Survivor Annuity in effect. The monthly pension  
benefit payable to the employee's spouse may begin immediately.  
### SURVIVORS’ INCOME BENEFIT (SIB)  
No new SIB participants will be allowed as of | October 2005. If an employee elected SIB coverage and  
dies, benefits normally are available as a monthly oenefit of of base salary to the spouse or  
dependent child. The cost of the coverage is shared by the employee and Aerospace. and premium  
paynicuts are in we form of payroll deduction. The ‘ull cost of SIB will be paid by the participants  
as of October 1, 2005. Benefits as a percentage of salary are reduced after age 65.  
### RETIREMENT  
AERP! Participants  
AERP! participants may begin collecting benefits as early as age 55. If cn employee retires from active  
employment as a fully vested Plan Participant on or after age 62, there is no reduction in benefits.  
Benefits are reduced for early retirement.  
AERP! participants who elected to change to AERP 2 will have two separate AERP accruals. Benefits  
accrued prior to 1 October 2005 under AERP1, will be payable in full at age 62 when retiring from active  
service. AERP2 benefits will be payable in full at age 65.  
The following table illustrates the percentage of accrued benefits a fully vested Plan Participant in AERP1  
may receive upon retiring from active service before age 62.  
AERP 1 Retirement Benefit for Employees Retiring from Active Service  
Age at Percent of  
Retirement Retirement Benefit  
   
   
These are examples of percentages of the monthly benefits payable at age 65, earned to the date of  
retirement.  
If an employee leaves the Corporation before retirement, the employee becomes a vested terminee and is  
entitled to receive his/her full retirement benefit at age 65. A vested terminee may receive his/her benefit  
as early as age 55. As shown in the table below, if a vested terminee elects to receive his/her retirement  
benefit before age 65. the benefit will be reduced for each year the vested terminee’s retirement precedes  
his/her normal retirement date at age 65.  
AERP Retirement Benefit for Vested Terminee’s  
Age at Percent of  
Retirement Retirement Benefit  
   
These are examples of percentages of the monthly benefits payable at age 65, earned to the date of  
retirement.  
There are five annuity payment options available: Single Life Annuity (SLA), Ten Year Certain and Life  
Annuity (1OYCL) and Joint and Survivor (J & S) 50. 75 and 100% Annuity options. The SLA and  
10YCL are based upon the employee's age and the J & S annuities are calculated based on the age of the  
survivor and beneficiary. The J & S 50% benefit is the automatic payment option for someone who is  
married at retirement unless the spouse signs a waiver.  
AERP? Participants  
AERP? participants who hired on or after April 1, 2005 or opted into AERP2 may begin collecting  
benefits as early as age 55. If an employee retires from active employment as a fully vested Plan  
Participant on or after age 65, there is no reduction in benefits. Benefits are reduced for early retirement.  
The following table illustrates the percentage of accrued benefits a fully vested Plan Participant may  
receive upon retiring from active service before age 65.  
AERP2 Retirement Benefit for Employees Retiring from Active Service  
F-38  
a  
hob 2  
  
   
   
    
     
   
    
Age at  
Percent of i  
Retirement  
Retirement Benefit  
         
   
       
       
         
   
   
    
55 50  
56 35  
57 60  
58 65  
59 70  
60 75  
61 80  
62 85  
63 90  
64 | 95  
65 100  
These are examples of percentages of the monthly benefits payable at age 65, earned to the date of  
retirement.  
If an employee leaves the Corporation before the employee becomes a vested terminee and is  
entitled to receive his/her full retirement benefit at age 65. A. vested terminee may receive his/her benefit  
as early as age 55. As shown in the table below, if a vested terminee elects to receive his/her retirement  
benefit before age 65, the benefit will be reduced for each year the vested terminee’s retirement precedes  
his/her normal retirement date at age 65.  
AERP Retirement Benefit for Vested Terminee’s  
Age at Percent of  
Retirement Retirement Benetit _|  
   
These are examples of percentages of the monthly benefits payable at age 65, earned to the date of  
retirement.  
### PORTFOLIO A  
Retired bargaining unit members have an annual opportunity in August of each year to transfer from the  
Variable Benefit Fund to a more conservative fund option, called “Portfolio A.“ Once elected, the  
decision to change ts irrevocable.  
The primary objective of this fund is to provide a stable and acceptable market rate of return. The  
secondary objective is preservation of capital. Portfolio A is a managed porttolio of short to intermediate  
bonds with investment guidelines as follows:  
a. A majority of the portfolio will be invested in U.S. Treasury or U.S. Government securities  
backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government.  
b. The balance will be invested in U.S. corporate bonds rated AA or better.  
C. Bonds in the portfolio will be restricted to those having maturity of no more than (10) years and  
the average portfolio maturity will be no less than five (5) years.  
### TERMINATION  
Individuals who terminate employment and have a present value of less than $10,000 may receive a lump  
sum from the Plan.  
### SECTION 17. VOLUNTARY ANNUITY/ACCOUNT PLAN (VA/AP)  
The VA/AP program offers an opportunity to supplement the employee's retirement income by  
authorizing the Corporation té set aside a portion of weekly salary through a salary reduction agreement.  
Salary deferrals are made on a pre-tax basis (pursuant to Internal Revenue Code section 403(b)), thereby  
reducing federal and state income taxes. Employees may invest salary deferrals in their choice of the  
following insurance and mutual fund companies.  
a. Insurance Companies  
1. Prudential Asset Management Company, Inc  
2. Teachers’ Insurance and Annuity Association— College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA-  
### CREF)  
b. Mutual Fund Companies  
l. Fidelity Investment Services  
2. Scudder Investor Services, Inc.  
3. T. Rowe Price Trust Company  
4. Vanguard (Effective January 1, 2004)  
Participation may begin after the first week of employment.  
Participants may change the selection of investment companies receiving weekly deferrals at any time.  
Participants may also change the selection of funds or investment options within each investment  
company. This is subject to the conditions of the investment company involved and is done directly with  
the investment company.  
Participants may transfer funds between investment companies. Participants must contact the investment  
company that they want to transfer to. The Company will help the participant complete the appropriate  
documents. If an account is not open with the new investment company, the participant must complete an  
account application. By following prescribed procedures, these transfers do not have Federal income tax  
consequences.  
Under Federal and most state income tax regulations, deferrals to VA/AP and investment earnings are not  
taxed until the participant receives them. The participant may leave salary deferrals and earnings in the  
F-40  
$9 Fb £€ F € F  
account until retirement or until the participant withdraws them, starting no !ater than age 70‘ and retired,  
according to the current Treasury Regulations.  
### SECTION 18. AFTER-TAX SAVINGS OPTION  
Effective April 1, 2003, all bargaining unit employees have the option of making (after-tax) IRS 401(a)  
contributions to the After-Tax Savings Option independent of their hire date. These contributions are  
funded entirely by the individual employee.  
The employee may invest in any or all of the following specific mutual funds in any category:  
Fidelity Money Market Portfolio  
er er  
Core Fixed [Income (Passive) Fidelity U S Bond Index Fund  
| Fidelity Growth Company Find  
Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo (GMO)  
Growth [If Fund  
Mid/Small Cap Value Equity Fidelity Low-Priced Stock Fund (Closed to new investors)  
Small Cap Lord Abbett Small Cap Value Y Stock Fund  
Fidelity Diversified International Fund  
ty  
u  
[Lifecycle  
PY Fidelity Freedom 2005 Fund  
Fidelity Freedom 2010 Fund  
P| Fidelity Freedom 2015 Fund  
Mid-Career Group idelity Freedom 2020 Fund  
P| Fidelity Freedom 2025 Fund  
Fidelity Freedom 2030 Fund  
pO Fidelity Freedom 2035 Fund  
Fidelity Freedom 2040 Fund  
idelity Freedom 2050 Fund  
Administration of the program, including initiating or changing payroll deductions, selecting investment  
options, and transfers between investment options, is handled by Fidelity. Fidelity will provide each  
participant with quarterly reports of his/her account activity, including gains and losses.  
. . Morgan Stanley Institutional Fund Trust  
Mid/Small Cap Growth Equity Mid Car Growth Portfolio .  
   
Participation is through payroll deductions only and 1s limited to 1°%> increments of salary. No lump sum  
contributions are allowed. However, rollovers are allowed.  
For bargaining unit employees, the maximum annual contribution is the lesser of  
a. of salary paid during the Plan Year (October 1 through September 30)  
b. $44,000 (includes company contributions to ASAP) as of October 1, 2006.  
In-service withdrawals are allowed, with the earnings subject to excise tax if the withdrawal is made prior  
to age 59 '2, Lump sum or monthly, quarterly, or annual systematic withdrawals are allowed upon  
termination of employment or retirement.  
F-4]  
### SECTION 19. WORK-LIFE PROGRAM  
The Work-Life Program provides Aerospace employees and retirees and their families personal  
information and resource consultations for work/life services and professional counseling. Coverage  
includes the following:  
1.  
10.  
11.  
13.  
14.  
Five (5) visits per individual with a professional counselor for help in dealing with emotional  
concerns like job stress, anxiety, or problems with drugs and alcohol.  
Toll-free phone access to a counselor 24 hours a day everyday.  
On-site counselor at El Segundo office.  
Website access.  
Child care referral service.  
Lactation program for nursing mothers  
Adult/Eldercare referral service.  
Enhanced adult/eldercare service if purchased.  
Legal assistance, including:  
Free phone consultation with licensed attorney  
b. Free referral to a local attorney who has experience in handling similar cases  
30-minute no-charge face-to-face consultation with attorney  
d. 25% discount on additional legal services  
Chronic condition support  
Financial services  
Convenience referral service  
On-line information and searchable databases  
Personal and professional development seminars  
Wellness seminars  
F-42  
i 2  
§ t 3 £ ¥ € BS EP E SB  
### I  
f  
### APPENDIX G  
### EMPLOYMENT-RELATED PROGRAMS  
### SECTION 1. COMMUTER SERVICES  
Commuter Services consists of a vendor-opersted vanpoc!-oaly program as well as support for utilization  
of rapid mass transit by employees.  
Employee Subsidies  
The company will reimburse employees for their documented, actual costs of using a qualified commuter  
highway vehicle up to the maximum IRS limit. Currently that limit is at $110.00 per month,  
Reimbursement for this aspect of the program will be made through payroll accounting following  
processes established by commuter services.  
The company will reimburse employees for their documented, actual casts of using qualified mass transit,  
up to the maximum IRS limit. currently $110.00 per month. Reimbursement for this aspect of the  
program is made through vouchers or similar arrangements following practices established by Commuter  
Services.  
To qualify tor any of these rermbursements, employees must meet the requirements of IRS Code Section  
132 and related regulations for qualified commuter expense.  
Corporate Funded Van Pool Support Services  
The Corporation provides corporate-funded (except as noted) support services to the Vanpool Program  
participants consisting of the following:  
a. Negotiation of rates and terms of service with vendors (ircluding providing utilization guarantees  
if needed to mitigate significant future rate increases),  
b. Fuel attendant and gas (at unburdened cost, charged against the Transition Fund or billed to  
vanpool operators),  
Driver medical exams,  
Cs  
d. Guaranteed ride home if a late meeting causes the rider to miss the van or for family/personal  
emergencies,  
e. Disabled access cost subsidy,  
Preferential parking,  
g. Vanpool “fairs” (as needed),  
h. Orbiter classified ads, and  
1. In-house route re-alignment assistance during the transition from the Aerospace-operated  
program.  
Bargaining unit employees who are left without transportation from their designated place of work to  
their place of residence after normal work hours by management request and who avail themselves of  
commercial transportation to their place of residence shall not be denied reimbursement for the cost of  
said transportation.  
### SECTION 2. ROTH IRAS  
A Roth IRA is a valuable supplement to other long-term retirement savings plans. The employees’  
contributions to Roth IRAs are post-tax. Roth IRA assets grow tax-free and the participant never has to  
pay income taxes on proper withdrawals. Roth IRAs are an especially valuable savings plan for younger  
employees.  
Roth IRA contributions are subject to IRS Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) limits. Fidelity discontinued  
this for new enrollments  
Grandfathered employees may invest their Roth IRA contributions in Fidelity Investment Services’ funds.  
The Corporation will provide for Fidelity Roth IRA deductions via payroll, effective in calendar year  
2000. The employee must first set up an account with Fidelity. Enrollment kits can be obtained by  
calling Fidelity. Once Fidelity receives the completed enrollment kit, they will notify the Aerospace  
Payroll Department to start deductions.  
If this is a new account with Fidelity and the employee contributes $12.50 or less a week, the employee  
will be limited to a reduced set of Fidelity funds. If the employee opens an account with a $500 initial  
deposit, the employee may contribute to any of the Fidelity funds currently available under VA/AP.  
There is a maximum weekly deduction, even if started mid-year. Additional contributions may be made  
through Fidelity via personal check.  
### SECTION 3. TRADITIONAL IRAS  
A Traditional IRA provides important tax advantages for retirement investors. A Traditional IRA  
provides tax-deferred growth where any earnings and deductible contributions are sheltered from taxes  
until withdrawal. Tax-deductible contributions are subject to retirement plan participation and AGI  
limits.  
The maximum annual contribution is $2000 per person per tax year (in aggregate to both a Traditional  
IRA and a Roth IRA). The maximum contribution will increase effective January |, 2002, to: $3,000 for  
a participant under the age of 50, and $3,500 for a participant age 50 or older.  
There are provisions for penalty-free withdrawals. However, distributions must start by age 70'A.  
3 kd ££ BP 8 8  
3 €— 2 f  
3  
### J  
€ 3 f  
  
f J  
{  
### J  
i  
( 3  
G-3  
### INDEX OF SUBJECTS  
Subject  
ADSENCE. en ee eee eee  
Aerospace Employees’ Retirement Plan (AERP). 0000.0 ee eee  
Aerospace Rotation Program... ee eens  
Aerospace Savings Account Plan ee eee  
After-Tax Savings Option (ATSO) .. eee tee eee  
Airline Club Memberships 00 ccc eee ee ee tee eee ee  
Alternate Workweek Program. ccc eee eee  
APSA Communications (Article  
APSA Leaves of Absence (Article ee  
Business eee teen tee een eens  
Air 0... eee eee eee ee  
Car Rentals and Ground Transportation. cece eee  
Charge Cards. 0000 eee ee ee ees  
Combined Business and Personal ccc cee eee ee  
Insurance and Incidents. 00 ee eee  
International Travel... ee eee eee eee eens  
Lodging, Meals, and  
Travel to Company Offices and Field e eee  
Trip and Expense Approvals. ce eee eens  
Career Paths... + sehen ce we EG hee vo een eae ne  
Continuing Leaming eee eee teen eee nee  
Corporate Awards Program. .... cc en ee eee tne eee  
Corporate Documentation (Article ee eee  
Corrective ACtION. 2.0. cee ee ee eee een eee  
Dental Insurance eee eee  
Disputes Resolution (Article XV)... eens  
APSA Grievances and Arbitration... 0.0... ee eee  
Employee 0. te eee ee eee teen eee  
Other Conditions .... eee  
Step | Grievance Resolution... 0.0... ccc cece  
Step 2 Grievance ccc cee eee eee eee nee  
Step 3 Grievance Resolution eee teens  
Termination-Related Grievances. cece eee errr  
Timeliness, 00... eee teen  
Domestic Partners, Same-Sex, Retiree Medical cee  
Domestic Partners, Same-Sex, Medical, Hospital, Dental, and Vision Plan Costs for  
Bargaining Unit 0.0.00 een eee  
Dues Deduction Authorization and Assignment (Appendix ee eee  
Duration (Article eee eee  
Educational Assistance Programs 0c cece cece ce cette  
Electronic Communication Services 00. 0c eee eee  
Emergency Shutdown Hours — Recording... ee eee  
Employment-Related Programs (Appendix 0.02 cc eee ee  
[-]  
C-44  
C-16  
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) - see Work-Life F-  
Employee Benefits/Insurance Plans (Appendix ce cece ee ee eens F-]  
Employee Benefits (Article VIII) 00... ccc ee eee eee 17  
Employee Personnel Files (Article X). cece eee tee 20  
Employee Programs (Appendix E) ........ cece eee cece teens E-|  
Exempt Employees — Distribution of Effort. ccc cece ee ee eee eee C-14  
Exempt Employees — Part Tume Employment eee eee eee C-17  
Extended Work Week (EWW).. ce eee ee nent C-10  
Federal Government Positions cece eee C-63  
Flexible Spending Account (FSA) Plan eee cette eee teen eens F-25  
General Provisions (Article 0. ee ee ee 26  
Grievance Processing (see Disputes Resolution) eee eee tenes 22  
Group Hospital/Medical Insurance Plan cece ete F-8  
Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) 0. ee ee tee eee eee F-18  
High Risk et C-64  
Hiring, Promotion, Transfers, and Reassignments ee eee eee eee eee C-11  
Holidays ccc ccc ee eee eee eee eben D-1  
Wry DOMGY see ce ee Be ON we ee EE SoS D-4  
Learning Opportunities ccc eee ee eee tte E-9  
Life Insurance Plans... 0.20... ee tee eee eee ete eee F-  
28  
Long-Term Care Insurance ee eee F-27  
Long-Term Disability (LTD) Plan... 2... ee ce eee ee F-  
27  
Long-Term Disability Supplemental Income Protection F-27  
Long-Term International Assignment C-56  
Meal and Mileage Allowances .... 0... eee C-34  
Merit Employment Provisions (Article eee teens 11  
Corrective Action Process .... 0.0.0... ccc eee eee eee 14  
Determination of eee eee 11  
Disability Leave—Retum to Work eee 15  
Displaced Status eee eee ee 15  
Full-Time and Part-Time Employment 00 cece cece eee ete eens 1]  
MTS Pay .. 864-00 wwe YE EBS ee ae Es 16  
Notification in the Event of a Reduction in ce eee eee 14  
Options in Event of eee ene 14  
Reduction in Force (RIF)... 20... ee eee ee eee ee eee 13  
Rehire 00 ee ee eee ee eee een ttt 13  
Termination Pay eee eee eee een tent 16  
Termination for een 15  
Transfers... 0... ee eee eee 12  
Military Reserve Active Duty 0.0. 00s dees eos ewe ee ewe yas D-4  
MTS Compensation eee eee B-5  
MTS Job Description. eee eee rece B-1  
MTS Pay Plan Structure... ee eee eee eee B-8  
No Strikes or Lockouts (Article cc eee eee 22  
Non-Discrimination (Article eee 17  
Nonexempt Employees - ccc eee etree eee eens C-21  
Nonexempt Employees — Distribution of eee C-19  
Non-Supervisory MTS (Appendix eee eee eee eee  
]-2  
i  
5  
i  
3  
Occupational Accident Insurance 00  
29  
Other Absences... 00.00 eee ee  
Paid Family ee eee beeen eens F-26  
Patent Royalties... E-2  
Performance Management cece eee eee tenet eens we. CI  
Performance Recognition Payment (PRP) 00 ees E-1]  
Permanent Domestic Relocation eens C-47  
PRAM COSUS.. cee enn eee cee ee ee nee ee ae eet ot BEBE SSR EE eee F-]  
Plan Costs for Bargaining Unit eee F-1  
Plan Costs for Bargaining Unit Employees Who Retire during Term of This Agreement.. F-8  
Plan Cost for Current F-13  
Preamble... ee ee ete eee bene eee 6  
Preretirement Survivor Annuity eee F-37  
Proprietary Information cee eee beens C-42  
Recognition (Article eee be eee eee 6  
Reduction-In-Force (RIF) eee teens .. E-16  
Referral Bonus Program... eee eee eet eee E-1]  
Retiree Medical Plan... Je.  
Retirement Gift Program... eee eee F-20  
Rights of Management (Article tae 7  
Rot DRAGS .. 2.2 ewer rs Bee ee GEE ESSERE THRESH OG THRE HED SE G-2  
Security Program... 0... eee eee ete teen C-36  
DOD Security Clearance Investigations tees C-4]  
Personnel Security 0... ne eee C-37  
Physical eee eee C-38  
Security Incidents—Disciplinary Actions 000 cece eee eens C-36  
Severance ee ee eee E-]5  
Short-Term International Assignment C-53  
Sick Leave eee ee ee D-3  
Staff Development (Article XID)... 0. eee een .. 2i  
Survivors’ Income Benefit (SIB) ee eee ee eens F-37  
Telecommuting (Article XID)... eee 2  
Temporary Disability Plans... eee F-26  
Temporary Domestic AssignmentS 0.00 cece eee C-4-4  
Traditional IRAS ee eee eee G-2  
Traffic and eee eee eee eee C-34  
TRICARE Supplement tees F-2]  
Union Security (Article 0... eee tenn ee een §  
Deduction of Dues 2. en eee eee eee teens 8  
Indemnity 00 ccc eee eee ence 9  
Remittance and Statements to the Association 0.00.00 cece eee eee eee 8  
Voluntary Membership and Maintenance of 8  
Vacatlon ee eee ee een D-2  
Vision Care eee eee bene teen eee ee F-25  
Voluntary Annuity/Account Plan tees F-40  
Voluntary Personal Accident Insurance eee eee F-29  
Work Absences (Appendix eee eee D-|  
Work Environment (Appendix ae C-]  
Work-Life Program ee eee F-42