2004  
### CONTRACT  
Communications  
Workers of America  
Pacific Telesis Group  
Pacific Bell  
Nevada Bell  
Advanced Solutions, Inc.  
Pacific Bell Home Entertainment  
Pacific Bell Information Services — MNG  
SBC Services, Inc.  
SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas  
SBC Telecom, Inc.— Network Operations  
   
Effective April 4, 2004  
Expiration Date April 4, 2009  
   
   
   
   
   
### CONTRACT BETWEEN  
### THE COMPANIES  
### AND  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA  
  
>  
  
  
fa |  
  
Ti  
ar)  
—}  
—  
=  
foal  
  
=  
n  
   
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### PAGE  
PREAMBLE, eet mee Het Re RS ERE Ew 1  
ARTICLE1 RECOGNITION..................... 1  
### ARTICLE2 3  
2.01 Employment Security Commitment .......... 3  
2.02 Employee Career Development Programs ...... 3  
Training/Retraining Working Committees. ...... 4  
2.04 The Automated Upgrade and Transfer System... . 5  
2.05 Force 10  
2.06 14  
2.07 Separation 22  
2.08 Relocation 26  
2.09 Assignment of Headquarters.............. 27  
### COMPANY-UNION RELATIONS ........... 32  
3.01. General Statement................... 33  
3.02 Meetings Between Union and  
Management 33  
3.03 Time Off for Union Activities .............. 36  
3.04 Collective Bargaining Meetings Between  
Union and Management Representatives. ...... 41  
3.05 Union Activities on the Companies’ Premises... . . 42  
3.06 BulletinBoards 43  
3.07 Union 44  
3.08 Payroll Deduction of UnionDues ........... 45  
3.09 47  
3.10 FederalorStateLaws ................. 48  
### PAGE  
### ARTICLE4 JOBTITLES AND 49  
4.01 New Job Titles and Job Classifications ........ 49  
4.02 52  
4.03 Part Time, Term, Temporary and  
OccasionalEmployees................-. 52  
### ARTICLE5 WORK ADMINISTRATION, COMPENSATION  
AND SPECIAL PAYMENTS.............. 59  
5.01 Wage Schedules and Payments............ 59  
5.02 + Relief Differentials.................... 62  
5.03 Shift Differentials .................... 62  
5.04 Overtime and Call-Outs................. 64  
5.05 Expense 67  
5.06 70  
5.07 Plan for Employees’ Pension, Disability Benefits  
and Death 72  
ARTICLE6 TIMEOFF........................ 73  
6.01 General Statement................... 73  
6.02 eee eee eee 73  
6.03 eee eee 75  
6.04 Personal Days Off.................... 77  
6.05 Civic and Personal Obligations ............ 78  
6.06 Planned Time 79  
### ARTICLE7 PROBLEM RESOLUTION PROCEDURES ..... 83  
7.01 General Statement................... 83  
7.02 Request for Union Representation........... 83  
7.03 Communication and Problem Solving. ........ 83  
7.04 Union 84  
7.05 Grievance 84  
7.06 Sharing Information................... 88  
7.07 Company Position...................-. 89  
7.08 Unresolved Union Presented Grievances. ...... 89  
7.09 Employee Presentation................. 89  
7.10 Arbitration Procedures ................. 90  
7.11 Arbitrator... ee ee eee 91  
7.12 Power of the Arbitrator ................. 92  
7.13  
7.14  
7.15  
7.16  
7.17  
7.18  
7.19  
### ARTICLE 8  
### ARTICLE 9  
### ARTICLE 10  
### APPENDIX A  
Section A1  
A1.01  
A1.02  
A1.03  
A1.04  
A1.05  
A1.06  
Arbitrator’s Decision  
  
Expedited Arbitration Procedure. ...........  
Arbitration Expenses ................-.-.  
Time Limits  
Mediation  
eee eee  
### LAYOFFS 97  
### OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH...... 101  
CONCLUSION ..................... 103  
WORKING CONDITIONS ............... 105  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA WORKING  
CONDITIONS FOR: .................. 105  
¢ Network  
* SBC Services, Inc.  
¢ Human Resources  
¢ Real Estate  
¢ Information Technology  
¢ Procurement  
¢ Network Planning & Engineering  
¢ Industry Markets Local Operations  
¢ Network Services Staff  
¢ Public Communications  
¢ SBC Telecom, Inc. — Network Operations  
¢ Advanced Solutions, Inc.  
Titles andApplications ................. 105  
Hours of Work. eee 106  
Work 108  
Headquarters and Specified Limits .......... 109  
Overtime and Premium Payments. .......... 110  
Seniority... 2... ee 111  
  
>  
  
  
fa |  
  
Ti  
ar)  
—}  
—  
=  
foal  
  
=  
n  
   
Section A2  
A2.01  
A2.02  
A2.03  
A2.04  
A2.05  
Section A3  
A3.01  
A3.02  
A3.03  
A3.04  
A3.05  
### PAGE  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA AND NEVADA  
### WORKING CONDITIONS FOR:............ 112  
¢ Network  
¢ SBC Services, Inc.  
¢ Human Resources  
¢ Real Estate  
¢ Information Technology  
¢ Procurement  
¢ Network Planning & Engineering  
¢ Industry Markets Local Operations  
¢ Network Services Staff  
¢ Public Communications  
¢ SBC Telecom, Inc. — Network Operations  
¢ SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas, NV  
¢ Advanced Solutions, Inc.  
¢ Pacific Bell Information Services —  
Maintenance Notification Group  
¢ External Affairs/Regulatory — Nevada only  
Titles ................. 113  
Hours of Work... 113  
Overtime and Premium Payments. .......... 116  
Assignment of Headquarters.............. 117  
Seniority. 2. ee 118  
### WORKING CONDITIONS FOR:............ 118  
* Operator Services, Marketing Directory Unit  
White Pages (Data Administrator Title only)  
¢ External Affairs/Regulatory — California only  
Titles ................. 118  
Hours of Work. . 119  
Overtime and Sunday Pay Practices ......... 120  
Seniority... 2... ee ee 122  
ee 122  
### PAGE  
Section A4 WORKING CONDITIONS FOR:............ 126  
¢ Network (Service Representative Title only)  
¢ Consumer Markets Group  
¢ Business Communications Services  
¢ Industry Markets except Local Operations  
¢ Procurement (Production Representative Title only)  
¢ Information Technology (Computer Operator,  
Service Representative and Collection  
Representative Titles only)  
¢ Finance  
¢ Advanced Solutions, Inc. (Service Representative  
And Order Writer Titles only)  
* Global Markets  
* Directory White Pages (Service Representative  
and Staff Associate Titles only)  
  
>  
  
  
fa |  
  
Ti  
ar)  
—}  
—  
=  
foal  
  
=  
n  
   
¢ Marketing  
A4.01 Titles andApplications ................. 126  
A4.02 Hours of Work... ee eee 127  
A4.03 Overtime and Premium Payments. .......... 129  
A4.04 Assignment of Headquarters.............. 130  
A4.05 Seniority... 2... ee 130  
### APPENDIX B PACIFIC BELL HOME ENTERTAINMENT  
WORKING CONDITIONS ............... 133  
B1 Working 133  
B2 Contract Modifications ................. 133  
B2.01 Article 8 133  
### B2.03 Appendix C Compensation, Transfer and Upgrades. . 134  
B2.04 Hours of Work... ee eee 134  
B2.05 ee ee 135  
B2.06 Seniority... 2... ee 136  
B2.07 Differentials 137  
B2.08 Headquarters 137  
B2.09 Home 137  
### APPENDIX C COMPENSATION, TRANSFER AND UPGRADES .  
C1  
C1.01  
C1.02  
C1.03  
C1.04  
C1.05  
C1.06  
C1.07  
C2  
C3  
C3.01  
C8.06  
Increases and Payments.  
2004 Increase... 2... ee es  
2005 Increase... .. ee ee ee es  
2006 Increase and Payment..............  
2007 Increase and Payment..............  
2008 Increase and Payment..............  
Minimum Wage Increase.  
Minimum Wage  
Titles, Wage Schedules, Time-in-Title and  
Pension Bands 050  
Wage Schedules  
Transition to New Wage Schedules From  
Superseded Wage Schedules ..........  
Classification of Exchanges by  
ZoneE.... 2... ee  
ZoneF...  
ZoneG. . 2.  
ee eee eee  
Team Performance Award  
Team Performance Award — Description ... .  
Team Performance Award — Computations. . .  
Pension Table  
Evening, Night and Early Morning Differentials. . . .  
Wage Administration Practice .............  
General... 2... ee  
Changes of Assignment to a  
Higher-Rated  
Exceptions to the Limitations in Section C8.02 .  
Changes of Assignment Between Schedules  
With the Same Top  
Changes of Assignment to a  
Lower-Rated Schedule..............  
.  
### AGREEMENT OF RECOGNITION...................  
vi  
### PAGE  
139  
139  
139  
139  
139  
139  
140  
140  
141  
141  
145  
145  
183  
183  
183  
184  
186  
186  
186  
190  
192  
193  
194  
194  
195  
197  
198  
198  
199  
201  
   
  
a  
### PAGE Hey  
MEMORANDA OF AGREEMENT ................... 203 3  
1. Documentation Retention ............... 204 =  
2. Early Retirement Benefit................ 205 He  
3. Eliminate Force Freezes, Force Limitations and ”  
Metering. eee ee eee 211  
4. Employee Career Development Programs and  
Training/Retraining (Horizons). ............ 212  
5. Employment 213  
6. 214  
7. Monitoring and Productivity Measurements  
(Operator 0002 216  
8. Pay Treatment for Medically Restricted Employees. . 218  
9. Principles for Sales Incentive Programs. ....... 220  
10. Provide for Voluntary Waiving of the Sunday  
Plus Four Request 222  
11. Relocation Expense Treatment ............ 223  
12. Subcontracting 227  
13. | Supervisory Monitoring — Definition Per CPUC  
Decision... . 2... 2. 229  
14. | Supervisory Monitoring — Service Representatives. . 231  
NATIONAL AGREEMENT........................ 235  
INDEX) id 263  
vil  
viii  
### PREAMBLE  
Pursuant to and in consolidation of the terms agreed to in the Memorandum  
of Agreement executed on May 25, 2004, this consolidated Contract is  
signed on this 3rd day of June, 2004, between PACIFIC BELL/NEVADA  
BELL, SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas, Nevada, SBC Telecom, Inc. —  
Network Operations, SBC Advanced Solutions, Inc., SBC Services, Inc.,  
Pacific Bell Information Services Maintenance Notification Group, and  
Pacific Bell Home Entertainment, hereinafter collectively referred to as the  
### “Companies,” and the COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA,  
hereinafter referred to as the “Union.”  
The respective parties to this consolidated Contract do mutually agree and  
covenant as follows:  
### ARTICLE 1  
### RECOGNITION  
Section 1.01 The Companies recognize the Union as the exclusive  
collective bargaining representative for those employees having the occu-  
pational title classifications outlined in Appendices A and B for the  
collective bargaining units described in the Agreement of Recognition.  
Section 1.02 Nothing herein shall be construed as authorizing the inclu-  
sion of any employee or employees not properly includable in the above  
described bargaining unit, nor shall be construed as a waiver or forbearance  
on the part of the Union of any right to represent any employee or employ-  
ees properly includable in such bargaining unit as contemplated under the  
National Labor Relations Act as now or hereafter amended or superseded.  
Section 1.03 Additions to, or changes in, recognition as described in the  
Agreement of Recognition may be made by mutual agreement.  
Section 1.04 The Companies recognize the Union or its authorized  
representatives as having sole power to execute agreements with the Com-  
panies in regard to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other con-  
ditions of employment affecting the employees in the collective bargaining  
units described in the Agreement of Recognition.  
Section 1.05 The Companies will furnish a copy of the Contract to all  
employees.  
  
a  
  
oa  
  
=  
ow  
co  
faa  
   
### NOTES  
### ARTICLE 2  
### FORCE ALLOCATION  
### Section 2.01 EMPLOYMENT SECURITY COMMITMENT  
The Companies’ policy will be to offer all employees, who continue to meet  
performance standards, employment security through reassignment and  
retraining even if their present jobs are eliminated. This policy will be  
maintained so long as there is no change that will materially alter any of the  
Companies’ Business Plan achievement.  
Employees who utilize personal and/or career development programs  
designed to help them stay abreast of continuing technological and business  
changes, and who exercise flexibility in accepting new or changed work  
assignments and locations, will be assured employment security so long as  
there is no change that will materially alter any of the Companies’ Business  
Plan achievement.  
### Section 2.02 EMPLOYEE CAREER DEVELOPMENT  
### PROGRAMS  
The Employee Career Development Program, developed jointly by the  
Companies and the National Union, is designed to provide for the ongoing  
development of each employee’s capability throughout their careers with  
the Companies.  
A. The Program will be governed by the Vice President — Human  
Resources and the CWA Vice President, District 9, or their designated  
representatives, as well as three (3) representatives of the Companies  
and three (3) representatives of the Union. This Governance Board  
will oversee the activities of the Training/Retraining Working  
Committees.  
B. The Companies will provide specific, relevant and timely information  
regarding existing job opportunities to the Union. This information  
will be based on semi-annual force forecasts of future force reductions  
and job growth areas created by, but not limited to, major technolog-  
ical changes and consolidations. This information will be communi-  
cated to the appropriate Union and management representatives so that  
these representatives can help employees make decisions about their  
individual career paths.  
   
The purpose of the Employee Career Development Program is to:  
1. Educate employees about the necessity for, and reality of, change.  
2. Enable an employee to assess personal knowledge, skills, attrib-  
utes, behaviors and goals.  
3. Determine the knowledge, skills, attributes and behaviors for  
jobs and build a training and/or career path for each participating  
employee.  
4. Provide individual career and development counseling by trained  
counselors.  
5. Encourage employees to take control of their careers and seek out  
new career opportunities in sufficient time to take advantage of  
such opportunities.  
6. Emphasize each employee’s responsibility to seek out and take  
advantage of these and other career development tools and  
processes to better ensure their personal employment security.  
The Governance Board identified in Section 2.02A will be responsible  
for integrating and coordinating the activities of the Training/Retrain-  
ing Working Committees into the Employee Career Development  
Program.  
All Regular Full and Part-time employees with at least one (1) year of  
service will be eligible to participate in the Employee Career Devel-  
opment Program(s). Participation in the Program(s) shall be voluntary.  
Time spent by employees in Program activities will normally be out-  
side of scheduled working hours. Such time will not be paid and will  
not be considered as time worked for any purpose.  
### Section 2.03 TRAINING/RETRAINING WORKING  
A.  
B.  
### COMMITTEES  
The Training/Retraining Working Committees shall consist of equal  
numbers of Company and Union representatives.  
The functions of the Training/Retraining Working Committees are to:  
1. Develop programs which offer additional training opportunities  
to employees which will allow them to attain new skills and  
pursue different career paths.  
Propose those programs to the Governance Board for approval of  
appropriate expenditure of the Training/Retraining funding.  
Administer the programs and report on at least a quarterly basis  
to the Governance Board.  
C. The provisions of Sections 2.02 and 2.03 do not in any way affect the  
Companies’ right to implement the provisions of Article 2, Section  
2.05, Section 2.06 or Article 8.  
### Section 2.04 THE AUTOMATED UPGRADE AND  
### TRANSFER SYSTEM  
The Companies and the National Union agree that the Companies will  
replace the Upgrade and Transfer Plan with an automated transfer plan that  
shall provide placement opportunities for Regular employees. This Plan,  
called the Automated Upgrade and Transfer System (AUTS), will enable  
Regular employees to move to new job titles and work locations. Such  
moves not only benefit the Companies, but also benefit employees by  
allowing them to influence the direction of their individual careers.  
A. Regular Transfers  
iL.  
Participation in the AUTS shall require employees to verify, supply  
and update personnel data relative to work experience, testing,  
education and training. This information shall be the basis of  
each employee’s resume maintained in the AUTS database.  
Information regarding job openings will be made available to  
employees on an automated basis by the Companies. Such infor-  
mation will also be available to the Union Locals.  
Eligible qualified employees seeking placement can submit trans-  
fer requests for currently open positions and for future openings.  
Employees may have up to six (6) transfer requests at any one  
time. These may be upgrade, lateral or downgrade transfer  
requests and they may be for future or current vacancies. Each  
transfer request will designate a specific title and exchange (See  
Appendix C4).  
a. Employees will receive reports regarding the activity asso-  
ciated to their transfer requests every four (4) to six (6)  
weeks.  
   
A vacancy will be listed for a minimum of five (5) business days,  
during which time eligible employees may submit transfer  
requests for the position.  
The employee will have two (2) work days to accept or reject a  
job offer. Once a job offer has been made, all other transfer  
requests will be put on hold until the job offer has been accepted  
or declined.  
An employee’s transfer request will be maintained in the active  
file and/or considered for current open positions if the employee  
has met the prerequisites of satisfactory job performance, time-  
in-title and time-in-location (as indicated in Appendix C2), test-  
ing and other job requirements as determined by the Companies  
and indicated on the appropriate job brief.  
a. Least senior identified surplus employees (Section 2.06B 1)  
and employees placed under the provisions of Section 2.05  
(Force Balancing) and Section 2.06 (Force Movement) of  
this Article will not be required to meet time-in-title and  
time-in-location requirements in order to submit transfer  
requests following such identification and/or placement.  
b. employee refuses a job offer which matches a request,  
then that request will be cancelled; and it, or any other  
request that would include the same title and exchange, may  
not be resubmitted for a period of six (6) months from the  
date of refusal. When an employee accepts a job offer, all  
other transfer requests on file will be cancelled.  
c. Transfers submitted to AUTS for current positions expire  
thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of a job match list or  
upon selection of a candidate for the vacancy, whichever  
occurs first. Transfers submitted for future positions will  
remain in file for six (6) months from the date of receipt, but  
will be cancelled upon the occurrence of any of the  
following:  
1. The employee no longer meets eligibility or qualifica-  
tions requirements.  
The employee withdraws the request.  
3. The employee leaves the Company payroll.  
4. The employee is no longer a Regular employee.  
d. Transfers will remain in file, but on inactive status, if any of  
the following are in excess of thirty (30) calendar days:  
leaves of absence; temporary promotions to management  
and disabilities.  
e. Eligible employees not test qualified for positions being  
sought through AUTS will be provided the opportunity to  
take such test(s) in the same order of consideration applica-  
ble to filling job vacancies under Section 2.04B1, subject to  
the availability of testing resources and the job vacancy rate  
for the positions being sought. Within each step in the  
sequence of search, employees will be tested in seniority  
order.  
B. Selection  
L.  
When the Companies declare a vacancy, the Companies may list  
on the requisition up to ten (10) skills taken from the job brief.  
These skills are in addition to the prerequisites described in  
Section 2.04A6. Employees will be selected by the skills listed on  
the requisition. Skills are based on the employees’ work experi-  
ence, training and education and are listed in their resumes. The  
Companies may, at their discretion, interview employees on job  
match lists to confirm their skills. When two (2) or more employ-  
ees have equal skills related to the vacancy, seniority will deter-  
mine the choice. The normal sequence of search to fill a vacancy  
will be:  
a. Qualified employees in the Available Employee File  
consisting of personnel returning from medical disability,  
military, care of newborn children, care of immediate  
family, Union leaves of absence, qualified medically  
restricted employees and surplus employees;  
b. Laid off employees as referenced in Article 8;  
c. Employees requesting changes of job titles and/or locations;  
d. New hires.  
In applying the provisions of Sections 2.04B 1a through 2.04B Ic,  
Nevada employees will be considered for Nevada positions for  
which they are qualified before such opportunities are made  
7  
   
available to Pacific employees. Pacific employees will likewise  
receive consideration for Pacific positions before such opportu-  
nities are made available to Nevada employees.  
Employees and new hires in Section 2.04Blc through 2.04B1d  
may be considered concurrently. When two (2) or more individ-  
uals are equally qualified, seniority will determine the choice.  
Notwithstanding Sections 2.04B1 through 2.04B3, VP entities  
may reserve up to 50% of their vacancies by title for intra VP  
entity movement. Those vacancies identified for intra VP entity  
movement will be made available to qualified employees within  
the same VP entity before such opportunities are made available  
to employees from other VP entities. Intra VP entity selection will  
be determined by skills and seniority as described in Section  
2.04B1. A VP entity will not have more than 50% of its vacan-  
cies reserved on a title by title basis at any point in time during  
the life of this contract.  
The Companies reserve the right to refuse transfers and may  
initiate transfers as they deem necessary.  
C. Retreats  
D.  
1.  
A Regular employee who has accepted a new job assignment,  
which is an upgrade under this Section 2.04, may elect to retreat  
to the previous department within the first six (6) months after the  
date of transfer, except as specified in Section 2.05C and  
2.06B10. The employee will be reassigned to the previous job or  
a comparable job within the same headquarters as the previous  
job as a vacancy becomes available. If the Companies and the  
Union Local(s) agree, the affected employee may be offered  
a comparable job outside the headquarters.  
The receiving department may elect to retreat an employee within  
the first six (6) months after the date of transfer except as  
specified in Section 2.05C and 2.06B 10.  
For both employee and Company initiated retreats, the first six  
(6) months may be extended for formal classroom training,  
leaves of absence, or disability.  
Joint AUTS Review Committee  
1. The Companies and the National Union will establish a Joint  
AUTS Review Committee comprised of two (2) Union repre-  
sentatives and two (2) representatives of the Companies. The  
responsibilities of the Committee will include:  
a. Assisting the Companies in providing for an orderly and  
efficient transition to AUTS;  
b. Monitoring the ongoing operation of AUTS;  
c. Analyzing overall AUTS results;  
Addressing concerns raised as to the staffing of positions  
through AUTS.  
2. The Joint Review Committee will meet on a regular basis, but not  
less than once each quarter.  
3. The Joint Review Committee is not empowered to enter into  
agreements modifying the Contract, employees’ wages, benefits  
(or other forms of compensation), job titles or representation  
status.  
4. Agreements made by the Joint Review Committee will not prej-  
udice the position of either the Companies or the Union and will  
not be cited in any other proceeding. Such agreements will not be  
subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.  
   
5. Individual placement decisions made pursuant to the AUTS shall  
be subject to the grievance procedure. Issues not resolved in the  
grievance procedure may be presented to the Joint AUTS Review  
Committee for final and binding resolution. Neither the AUTS  
nor its administration shall be subject to arbitration.  
Mini-Transfers  
The mini-transfer procedure is completely separate from the process  
described in Section 2.04A. The mini-transfer process is administered  
by local management without the involvement of the Placement organ-  
ization. Local management will consider mini-transfer requests before  
issuing a requisition. Time-in-title and time-in-location is accrued for  
employees who change their shift, location or status due to a mini-  
transfer.  
1. Regular employees (except for Operator Services employees  
listed in Appendix A, Section A3.01A) may submit local requests  
to change their shifts (day, evening or night) within their title and  
9  
their building locations or other organizational units as  
determined by the Companies and the Union. If there are no  
written requests on file, the available qualified employees within  
the building or organizational unit as determined by the  
Companies and the Union will be offered the vacancy.  
Regular employees (including Operator Services employees  
listed in Appendix A, Section A3.01) may submit local requests  
to change their work locations within their same titles. Requests  
for change in work locations will be to different buildings, or to  
different organizational units within the same district.  
Regular employees (including Operator Services employees  
listed in Appendix A, Section A3.01) may submit local requests  
to change their status from full-time to part-time or from part-  
time to full-time. Requests for change in status will be within the  
employee’s title and their building locations or other organiza-  
tional units as determined by the Companies and the Union.  
When a vacancy occurs, the Companies will review requests  
from available qualified employees. Employees will be consid-  
ered in order of seniority. The normal sequence of search to fill  
a vacancy will be:  
a. Employees requesting change of shifts under Section  
2.04E1;  
b. Employees requesting change of locations under Section  
2.04E2;  
c. Employees requesting change of status under Section  
2.04E3;  
d. Requests will be honored within the same State before  
allowing for interstate movement.  
The qualifications and availability of employees for the purpose  
of administering this Section 2.04E will be determined by the  
Companies.  
### Section 2.05 FORCE BALANCING  
Whenever any conditions, including economic or force conditions or tech-  
nological change (defined as changes in equipment or methods of opera-  
tions), are considered by the Companies to warrant relocation of existing  
10  
work and/or rearrangement of employees, Regular employees may be  
reassigned. Prior to such reassignment(s), management will inform the  
affected Union Local(s) of the proposed move(s). The parties will then  
discuss the need for such reassignment and may explore possible alterna-  
tives. If the parties do not agree, the Companies will administer the  
reassignment of Regular employees.  
If the reassignment of Regular employees is deemed necessary by the  
Companies, the following provisions will apply:  
A. Relocation of Existing Work  
iL.  
In applying the provisions of Section 2.05A, the affected work  
group will be considered to be an administrative work unit. An  
administrative work unit is defined as those employees who have  
the same title classification and who perform similar work, as  
determined by the Companies, and share a common overtime list  
and vacation schedule or, if not sharing both the same overtime  
list and vacation schedule, sharing either the same overtime list  
or vacation schedule, whichever list or schedule is smaller.  
When only a portion of the work performed within an adminis-  
trative work unit is to be relocated, employees will be offered the  
opportunity to follow the relocated work based on net credited  
service as shown by the records of the Companies.  
If the amount of work to be relocated equates to less than one (1)  
full employee’s work, the Companies, at their discretion, may  
allow an employee to follow that portion of relocated work.  
If the relocation of existing work involves a move for an  
employee which is considered commutable, the employee will  
follow the work to the new location. Commutable employees  
who refuse reassignment under the provisions of this Section  
and least senior commutable employees who refuse reassign-  
ment under Section 2.05B will be considered to have voluntarily  
resigned and will not be entitled to Separation Benefits.  
If the relocation of existing work is to a non-commutable  
location, the employee may elect to either follow the relocated  
work or be identified as surplus. In the latter case, the employee  
will be administered according to the provisions of Article 2,  
Section 2.06.  
14  
   
B. Force Rearrangements  
1.  
In an attempt to avoid the declaration of surplus, or to balance the  
force, the Companies may rearrange employees in the same title,  
consolidated headquarters (Section 2.09B) and Presidential  
entity. The Companies will determine the appropriate work  
group(s) within the title, consolidated headquarters and Presi-  
dential entity for administration of the force rearrangement(s).  
There is no requirement to use any of the force rearrangement  
procedures prior to declaring a surplus.  
Prior to a force rearrangement, the Companies will inform the  
affected Union Local(s) of the proposed move(s). Those Union  
Local(s) and the Companies will discuss the need for the force  
rearrangement(s), possible alternatives and whether any “addi-  
tional vacancies,” as described in Section 2.05B4, will be offered.  
The Union Local(s) and the Companies will meet and discuss  
these issues in a timely manner. If there is no agreement between  
the Union Local(s) and the Companies, the Companies will  
administer the force rearrangement(s).  
The least senior qualified surplus employees in the affected work  
group (“affected employees’’) will be offered the available jobs  
in their same title, consolidated headquarters and Presidential  
entity. By seniority, the affected employees may elect to take  
such vacancies or replace the least senior employee with the  
same title within the same consolidated headquarters and within  
the same VP entity who is outside the affected work group. This  
process will continue until all available vacancies in the title,  
consolidated headquarters and Presidential entity are filled.  
a. If the most senior of the affected employee(s) elects not to  
replace the least senior employee in the title, consolidated  
headquarters and VP entity, then the most senior of the  
affected employee(s) will be assigned to a vacancy.  
b. If the most senior of the affected employee(s) elects to  
replace the least senior employee in the title, consolidated  
headquarters and VP entity, then the replaced employee will  
be held out of the process until all the affected employee(s)  
who have more seniority than the replaced employee(s)  
have the opportunity to either replace the remaining least  
senior employee(s) in the title, consolidated headquarters  
12  
and VP entity or be assigned to a vacancy. If there are no  
remaining affected employees with more seniority than a  
replaced employee(s), the replaced employee(s) will be  
assigned to a vacancy, if available.  
If the Companies and the affected Union Local(s) agree during  
their advance discussions, the affected employees may also be  
offered any or all of the following types of available jobs in their  
Presidential entity (‘additional vacancies’’):  
¢ same title which are outside the consolidated headquarters;  
* same wage schedule within the consolidated headquarters;  
¢ and same wage schedule which are outside the consolidated  
headquarters.  
If any such additional vacancies are made available to the  
affected employees, the same process described in Sections  
2.05B3, 2.05B3a and 2.05B3b will be followed. That is, by sen-  
iority, the affected employees may elect to take an offered  
vacancy, including an additional vacancy, or replace the least  
senior employee with the same title within the same consoli-  
dated headquarters and within the same VP entity who is outside  
the work group. This process will continue until all offered  
vacancies, including additional vacancies, are filled.  
Employees who choose not to accept a commutable assignment  
will leave the service of the Companies. Employees who choose  
not to accept a non-commutable assignment will leave the service  
of the Companies and receive Separation Benefits.  
Employees who accept a non-commutable assignment under  
Section 2.05B will be entitled to relocation expense reimburse-  
ment. Such employees will also be entitled to submit unlimited  
requests through the Automated Upgrade and Transfer System for  
six (6) months from the effective date of their assignment. If an  
employee had the option of accepting a commutable job (other  
than replacing the least senior employee with the same title  
within the same consolidated headquarters and VP entity), but  
elected a non-commutable job, the employee will not receive  
relocation expense reimbursement and will not be eligible to  
submit unlimited requests through the Automated Upgrade and  
Transfer System for the six (6)-month period.  
13  
   
7. The Companies will inform the affected Union Local(s) of the  
results of a force rearrangement no later than thirty (30) calendar  
days after the effective date. The results will include the effective  
date of the force rearrangement, involved work locations and the  
name, title and net credited service (NCS) date of each involved  
employee.  
Employees reassigned under the provisions of Section 2.05 will have  
Limited Return Rights for up to 24 months from the effective  
date of their assignment. Limited Return Rights are to the  
employee’s former title, exchange and VP entity.  
As used in this Section 2.05 and Section 2.06, the term “qualified”  
refers to employees who have met the basic requirements of the job,  
including all tests, requirements and physical classifications as stated  
in the Jobs Handbook.  
### Section 2.06 FORCE MOVEMENT  
A.  
Prior to a declaration of surplus, the Companies will implement any  
or all of the following steps:  
1. Maintain overtime at a minimum level within the surplus work  
group.  
2. Terminate Temporary, Term and Occasional employees, if appro-  
priate, where the Companies determine that surplus employees  
are qualified to perform the work.  
3. Stop hiring in the surplus title within the surplus work group.  
Force Movement Process  
1. The Presidential entity (or if there is no Presidential entity, the  
highest level entity below Presidential entity) will notify the  
affected Union Local(s) and the Executive Director-Labor Rela-  
tions fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the surplus declaration  
date. The Presidential entity (or if there is no Presidential  
entity, the highest level entity below Presidential entity) will  
notify the surplus work group ten (10) calendar days prior to  
the surplus declaration date. If the Union Local(s) so choose,  
they may join in the roll-out scheduled by the Companies to  
notify the surplus work group. Labor Relations will notify the  
National Union in writing of a declaration of surplus.  
14  
a. Awork group is defined as one containing Regular employ-  
ees with the same job title in a specific consolidated head-  
quarters (see Section 2.09B) within a Company Presidential  
entity. In Company organizations without a Presidential  
level of management, a work group will consist of Regular  
employees with the same job title in a specific consolidated  
headquarters within the highest level entity below  
Presidential level.  
b. Surplus employees are the least senior employees in a  
surplus work group.  
Liaison Committees comprised of Company and Union repre-  
sentatives will be established (one (1) for Northern California and  
Nevada and one (1) for Southern California) to function in an  
oversight role regarding problems encountered during the place-  
ment of surplus employees. The membership of each Liaison  
Committee will be comprised of one (1) representative from  
CWA District 9, one (1) representative from the affected CWA  
Local(s) and one (1) each from Labor Relations, the affected  
Company department and the Placement organization. These  
committees are empowered to resolve any issues or problems  
regarding the placement of employees under the Force  
Movement process described in Sections 2.06B and 2.06C.  
a. The Liaison Committees are not empowered to enter into  
agreements modifying the Contract, with respect to  
employee’s wages, benefits (or other forms of compensa-  
tion), job titles or representation status.  
b. Agreements made by the Liaison Committees regarding the  
placement of surplus employees will not prejudice the posi-  
tion of either the Companies or the Union and will not be  
cited in any other proceeding. Such agreements will not be  
subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.  
c. Unresolved issues or problems regarding the placement of  
surplus employees will not delay or defer the Force Move-  
ment process. In the event the Liaison Committee is unable  
to resolve a problem within thirty (30) days, the issue(s)  
may then be addressed under the grievance and arbitration  
provisions of this Contract. To ensure timely resolution of  
grievances regarding the placement of surplus employees,  
15  
   
such grievances will bypass Step I and Step II of the griev-  
ance process and be forwarded to the National Union Rep-  
resentative and Labor Relations Director with a summary of  
facts and the positions of each party prepared by the  
appropriate Liaison Committee.  
d. The Liaison Committees will discuss temporary and term  
positions that would be appropriate for consideration for  
surplus work groups. These committees are empowered to  
implement placement options in the appropriate Company  
organizations in an effort to relieve the surplus.  
e. The Liaison Committees will discuss positions that are  
being made available for new hires that would be appro-  
priate for consideration for surplus work groups. These  
committees are empowered to implement placement  
options regarding these positions in the appropriate  
Company organizations in an effort to relieve the  
surplus.  
When a work group is notified of a surplus declaration, the Com-  
panies will offer Separation Benefits, as described in Section  
2.07, the Special Leave of Absence and the Transition Leave of  
Absence to employees within the surplus work group, within the  
first ten (10) calendar days of the notice period. Employees may  
elect to leave the service of the Companies and receive Separa-  
tion Benefits or one (1) of the above referenced leaves to the  
extent necessary to relieve the surplus.  
Declaration of surplus shall not be made more frequently than  
once every three (3) calendar months for each specific work  
group.  
Once surplus has been declared to the Union, all activities under  
Section 2.05B will cease for the surplus work group(s).  
All Regular employees within a surplus work group will be given  
priority consideration for all available lateral (same wage sched-  
ule) and downgrade jobs, except jobs that are represented by  
other unions, beginning on the surplus declaration date (see Sec-  
tion 2.06B1). However, surplus employees represented by CWA  
will not be offered jobs in the non-represented unit if a declared  
surplus condition exists in that non-represented unit and will not  
16  
be given priority consideration for those jobs if a surplus condi-  
tion exists in another bargaining unit.  
a.  
All Regular employees in the surplus work group who wish  
to volunteer for the available lateral and downgrade jobs  
may submit unlimited requests for current and future jobs  
through the Automated Upgrade and Transfer System begin-  
ning on the surplus declaration date.  
Qualified employees who have submitted transfer requests  
pursuant to Section 2.06B6 will be matched to jobs by  
seniority.  
Employees will have two (2) work days to accept or decline  
a job offer. Employees in a surplus work group who choose  
not to accept an offer for a position for which they had sub-  
mitted in accordance with Section 2.06B6 will leave the  
service of the Companies.  
Employees who accept jobs outside the CWA bargaining  
unit will assume the representation status of those jobs.  
The Placement Areas for employees covered by this  
Contract are:  
1. For California employees:  
Bay Los Angeles  
North Coast Orange/Riverside  
Sacramento/North San Diego/Imperial  
Valley Central Coast  
2. For Nevada employees:  
The State of Nevada  
The Rearrangement Areas for employees covered by this  
Contract are:  
1. Southern California from the Tehachapi mountains to  
the Mexican Border for employees working in  
Southern California.  
2. Northern California from the Tehachapi mountains to  
the Oregon border for employees working in Northern  
California.  
3. Nevada for employees working in Nevada.  
17  
   
If the procedures described in Sections 2.06B3 through 2.06B6  
have not resolved a declared surplus at the conclusion of thirty  
(30) calendar days including the date of the declaration, the  
remaining least senior identified surplus employees in the work  
group will be offered the Voluntary Surplus Reduction Option  
(VSRO) as described in Section 2.07K. Employees may elect the  
VSRO or elect to be assigned to available Regular full-time posi-  
tions (i.e., lateral, downgrade, commutable, non-commutable)  
within the CWA bargaining unit. Regular employees in the sur-  
plus work group may also continue to volunteer for lateral and  
downgrade positions as described in Section 2.06B6a until the  
Companies determine that the surplus is resolved in their work  
group.  
a. The Voluntary Surplus Reduction Option (VSRO) includes  
Separation Benefits as described in Section 2.07, an addi-  
tional $3,000 and eighteen (18) months unlimited access to  
AUTS with selection status the same as that of employees  
requesting changes of job titles and/or locations (see Section  
  
b. Least senior identified surplus employees will have five (5)  
calendar days within which to make their election between  
VSRO or assignment.  
c. Qualified least senior identified surplus employees who  
decline VSRO or who do not make any election within the  
five (5) calendar days will be assigned to available positions.  
d. The order of selection will be:  
1. by seniority, qualified volunteers in the surplus work  
group;  
2. qualified least senior identified surplus employees who  
remain surplus after the thirty (30) day voluntary  
phase described in Section 2.06B6.  
e. Qualified least senior identified surplus employees will be  
assigned in the following order:  
¢ lateral jobs within the Placement Area by seniority;  
¢ downgrade jobs within the Placement Area by seniority;  
¢ lateral jobs within the Rearrangement Area by inverse  
seniority;  
18  
¢ downgrade jobs within the Rearrangement Area by  
inverse seniority;  
¢ lateral jobs within California for employees of the  
Companies in California by inverse seniority;  
¢ downgrade jobs within California for employees of the  
Companies in California by inverse seniority.  
If the Companies deem appropriate, certain qualifications  
may be waived under the provisions of this Section 2.06B7.  
Employees who choose not to accept an offer for a job  
which is a commutable lateral position will leave the service  
of the Companies. Employees who choose not to accept an  
offer for a job which is a downgrade and/or non-com-  
mutable position will leave the service of the Companies  
and receive Separation Benefits and eighteen (18) months  
unlimited access to AUTS with selection status the same as  
that of employees requesting changes of job titles and/or  
locations (see Section 2.04B 1c).  
Those employees placed through the force movement process  
will have Return Rights for up to twenty-four (24) months from  
the effective date of their assignment.  
a.  
Those employees with Return Rights will have up to  
twenty-four (24) months unlimited access to AUTS for any  
regular position.  
Those employees with Return Rights will have concurrent  
consideration with candidates described in Sections 2.04B1c  
and 2.04B1d and priority selection status if equally qualified  
with the most qualified candidate of those described in  
Sections 2.04Blc and 2.04B 1d.  
Return Rights will cease when an employee is placed in a  
position through AUTS prior to the expiration of the  
twenty-four (24) month period.  
Notwithstanding any other provisions in the contract,  
employees with Return Rights who accept positions through  
AUTS will not be entitled to Relocation Expense  
reimbursement.  
19  
   
10.  
11.  
Employees who accept downgrade positions under Section 2.06  
will be entitled to Reassignment Pay Protection Plan Benefits as  
described below:  
### LESS THAN 15 YEARS OF NET CREDIT SERVICE  
### WEEKS WAGE REDUCTION  
1 through 52 None  
53 through 57 1/3  
58 through 62 2/3  
63 & thereafter Full  
### 15 OR MORE YEARS OF NET CREDITED SERVICE  
### WEEKS WAGE REDUCTION  
1 through 160 None  
161 through 164 1/3  
165 through 168 2/3  
169 & thereafter Full  
There are no retreat rights for employees placed into available  
jobs under the provisions of Section 2.06. However, employees  
who fail formal training after such placement will be returned to  
their former organizations, will be placed back into the force  
movement process and will be assigned to a Regular full-time  
(lateral/downgrade) position as described in Section 2.06B7.  
The Companies may engage in selective hiring during the Force  
Movement Process.  
If no Regular jobs are available, the remaining surplus employees  
will be offered the opportunity to either replace certain commutable  
contract labor if appropriate, or to leave the service of the Companies  
and receive Separation Benefits. Surplus employees who fail to make  
a choice relative to available contract jobs will leave the service of the  
Companies and receive Separation Benefits.  
1.  
Qualified employees who replace contract labor will be entitled  
to Reassignment Pay Protection Plan Benefits as described in  
Section 2.06B9. For purposes of determining the appropriate  
wage reduction, the competitive wage rate (prevailing rate for the  
contract job minus the value of Company-paid benefits) will be  
considered the wage rate of the contract job. Assignments involv-  
ing the replacement of contract labor will be considered  
temporary until a Regular job is available.  
20  
a. Employees in temporary contract jobs will be automatically  
matched in order of seniority to Regular lateral or down-  
grade jobs as positions become available. Employees may  
express their preferences for reassignment by submitting  
transfer requests through the Automated Upgrade and  
Transfer System. They may designate any lateral or down-  
grade job titles as the job titles in which they wish to be  
placed should vacancies occur.  
b. Employees in temporary contract jobs who choose not to  
accept an offer of a Regular job will leave the service of the  
Companies.  
At any time during the force movement process, if the Companies  
determine that surplus has been resolved in a work group, the Com-  
panies may rearrange the force as described in Section 2.05B.  
In the event that no commutable contract jobs are offered to surplus  
employees, the remaining surplus will be maintained until such time  
as a Regular lateral or downgrade job may be offered, or until the  
Companies inform the National Union in writing of their intent to lay  
off Regular employees.  
1.  
Maintained surplus employees who choose not to accept a com-  
mutable lateral job offer will leave the service of the Companies.  
Maintained surplus employees who choose not to accept a down-  
grade or anon-commutable job offer will leave the service of the  
Companies and receive Separation Benefits.  
Maintained surplus employees may, at the Companies’ discretion,  
be placed into commutable part-time jobs, if such jobs are avail-  
able. Surplus employees who choose not to accept an offer of a  
commutable part-time job will leave the service of the  
Companies and receive Separation Benefits.  
Managers may be reassigned to the bargaining unit utilizing either of  
the following provisions:  
1.  
Management employees may be reassigned to the bargaining  
unit provided there are no significantly qualified employees (i.e.,  
employees who perform similar work, as determined by the  
Companies) with greater seniority available to fill the vacancy  
with a transfer request on file for the position to which the  
manager would be assigned.  
21  
   
An administrative addition may be created, whereby the man-  
agement employee may be reassigned to the work group.  
If a manager (who has been a manager for six (6) continuous  
months or more immediately prior to the reassignment) is reas-  
signed to the bargaining unit, surplus shall not be declared in that  
work group for six (6) months or until the force level is reduced  
to the level which existed in that work group prior to the reas-  
signment of the manager, whichever occurs first.  
Section 2.07 SEPARATION BENEFITS (For Pacific Bell  
Home Entertainment, see Appendix B,  
Section B2.01)  
A. If during the term of this agreement, the Companies notify the  
National Union in writing that a surplus condition exists for any reason  
that will necessitate the reassignment of Regular employees, and the  
Companies deem it appropriate, the Companies may offer Separation  
Benefits in such job titles and such work locations as the Companies  
determine to be appropriate. If the Companies elect to so offer, Regular  
employees may elect, in order of seniority, to leave the service of the  
Companies and receive Separation Benefits subject to the following  
conditions:  
1.  
The Companies will determine the job titles and work locations  
in which the surplus exists, the number of employees in such  
titles and work locations who are considered to be surplus and the  
period during which the employee may, if he or she so elects,  
leave the service of the Companies. None of the determinations  
by the Companies nor any part of this Section 2.07 will be subject  
to arbitration.  
The number of employees who elect to leave the service of the  
Companies and receive Separation Benefits shall not exceed the  
number of employees determined by the Companies to be  
surplus.  
An employee’s election to leave the service of the Companies and  
receive Separation Benefits must be in writing and transmitted to  
the Companies within ten (10) calendar days including the date  
of the offer. The employee may designate on the election form  
that the election is to be effective and irrevocable immediately. If  
22  
the employee does not so designate, such election may not be  
revoked after the ten (10) calendar day period.  
If the Companies deem it appropriate, they may elect to offer Separa-  
tion Benefits to selected titles in a work group (see Section 2.06B 1a)  
as a force management tool. The Companies will notify the National  
Union in writing when any such offer is made. The Companies also  
will, in advance of making this offer to employees, discuss the matter  
with the affected Union Local(s). After this discussion, if the Compa-  
nies elect to so offer, Regular employees may elect, in order of  
seniority, to leave the service of the Companies and receive Separation  
Benefits subject to the following conditions:  
1. The Companies will determine the job titles and the work loca-  
tions for which the offer is to be made, the number of employees  
who may accept the offer and the period during which the  
employees may, if they so elect, leave the service of the Compa-  
nies. None of the determinations of the Companies nor any part  
of this Section 2.07 will be subject to arbitration.  
2. The number of employees who elect to leave the service of the  
Companies and receive Separation Benefits shall not exceed the  
number of employees identified by the Companies on the date of  
the offer to be appropriate.  
3. Anemployee’s election to leave the service of the Companies and  
receive Separation Benefits must be in writing and transmitted to  
the Companies within ten (10) calendar days including the date  
of the offer. The employee may designate on the election form  
that the election is to be effective and irrevocable immediately. If  
the employee does not so designate, such election may not be  
revoked after the ten (10) calendar day period.  
Employees who elect to leave the service of the Companies and  
receive Separation Benefits will receive payments based on the  
employee’s net credited service and basic weekly wage rate at the time  
of leaving the Companies as indicated below:  
23  
   
### YEARS OF SERVICE SEPARATION PAYMENTS  
0 1 week of pay  
1 2 weeks of pay  
2 4 weeks of pay  
3 6 weeks of pay  
4 8 weeks of pay  
5 10 weeks of pay  
6 12 weeks of pay  
7 14 weeks of pay  
8 16 weeks of pay  
9 18 weeks of pay  
10 20 weeks of pay  
11 23 weeks of pay  
12 25 weeks of pay  
13 27 weeks of pay  
14 29 weeks of pay  
15 31 weeks of pay  
16 35 weeks of pay  
17 37 weeks of pay  
18 39 weeks of pay  
19 41 weeks of pay  
20 43 weeks of pay  
21 45 weeks of pay  
ZZ, 47 weeks of pay  
23 49 weeks of pay  
24 51 weeks of pay  
25+ 53 weeks of pay  
D. Employees may select one of the following payment options for  
Separation Benefits:  
1. A single payment paid by the end of the month following the  
month in which the employee separates; or  
2. Asingle payment paid at the end of the first quarter of the year  
following separation; or  
3. A partial payment, in the amount determined by the employee,  
paid by the end of the month following the month in which the  
employee separates, with payment of the balance deferred until  
the end of the first quarter of the year following separation; or  
24  
4. Monthly payments beginning the month following the month in  
which the employee leaves the service of the Companies until all  
payments have been made.  
The years of net credited service will be prorated for any period during  
which an employee is employed on a part-time basis in the same man-  
ner as calculated in the Pacific Telesis Group Pension Plan.  
As used in this Section, “basic weekly wage rate (or its equivalent)”  
does not include differentials, overtime or any other extra payments.  
At the time of reemployment with the Companies, a recipient of the  
Separation Benefits must repay the entire unused portion of the pay-  
ment (the number of weeks of payment minus the number of weeks off  
the payroll). Repayment may be made in whole or by payroll deduc-  
tions in each payroll period. Deductions will be made at the rate of at  
least ten (10) percent per week of the employee’s basic weekly wage  
rate. The entire amount must be repaid within twelve (12) months of  
reemployment.  
In those cases where payment has been deferred and the employee has  
not received final payment at the time of reemployment, the employee  
will receive a single payment for the actual number of weeks off the  
payroll.  
In those cases where the recipient has elected, or is receiving, monthly  
payments of Separation Benefits, such payments will be suspended  
upon reemployment with the Companies.  
Employees who elect to leave the service of the Companies and  
receive Separation Benefits will continue to receive six (6) months of  
continued Company paid medical, dental and vision coverage, begin-  
ning on the date of their separation, with eligibility for COBRA cov-  
erage beginning at the end of the continued Company paid coverage.  
Least senior identified surplus employees within a surplus work group  
that remain surplus after the thirty (30) day voluntary phase of the  
force movement process described in Section 2.06B6 will be offered  
and may elect, in order of seniority, to leave the service of the Com-  
panies and receive the Voluntary Surplus Reduction Option (VSRO)  
subject to the following conditions. VSRO includes:  
¢ Separation Benefits as described above in Section 2.07  
¢ $3,000 added to the Separation Benefits payment  
¢ Eighteen (18) months unlimited access to AUTS  
25  
   
1. The Companies will determine the period during which the  
employee may, if he or she so elects, leave the service of the  
Companies. None of the determinations by the Companies nor  
any part of this Section 2.07K will be subject to arbitration.  
2. The number of employees who elect to leave the service of the  
Companies and receive VSRO shall not exceed the number of  
employees determined by the Companies to be surplus.  
3. Anemployee’s election to leave the service of the Companies and  
receive VSRO must be in writing and transmitted to the Compa-  
nies within five (5) calendar days of the last day in the thirty (30)  
day voluntary phase of the force movement process. Such elec-  
tion may not be revoked after the five (5) calendar day period.  
4. The $3,000 will be added to and paid with Separation Benefits in  
the manner elected as a payment option under Section 2.07D.  
5. At the time of reemployment with the Companies, a recipient of  
VSRO must repay the entire unused portion of the payment (the  
number of weeks of payment minus the number of weeks off the  
payroll). The $3,000 will equate to four (4) weeks of pay and that  
four (4) weeks will be added to the number of weeks of Separa-  
tion Benefits for this purpose. Repayment may be made in whole  
or by payroll deductions as described in Section 2.07G.  
6. In those cases where payment has been deferred and the  
employee has not received final payment at the time of reem-  
ployment, the employee will receive a single payment for the  
actual number of weeks off the payroll calculated as described in  
Section 2.07K5 above.  
7. In those cases where the recipient has elected, or is receiving,  
monthly payments of VSRO (i.e., the $3,000 added to and paid  
with Separation Benefits), such payments will be suspended upon  
reemployment with the Companies.  
Section 2.08 RELOCATION EXPENSE (The provisions of  
this section do not apply to Pacific Bell  
Home Entertainment)  
A. Employees who, in the judgment of the Companies, are required to  
relocate their residence as a result of a permanent Company-initiated  
transfer shall receive reimbursement for reasonable moving expenses  
26  
as agreed upon from time to time between the Companies and the  
National Union.  
1. Employees accepting non-commutable positions under Sections  
2.05, 2.06B, 2.06C, 2.06D and 2.06E will be entitled to  
relocation expense reimbursement.  
B. If there is no change of residence, as covered in Section 2.08A, the  
employee will not receive any reimbursement for moving expenses  
under this Section 2.08.  
C. When an employee requests a change of headquarters, the expenses  
involved in such change shall be borne by the employee.  
D. When an employee is returned to a previously held work assignment  
because of failure to meet performance requirements in connection  
with an employee-initiated transfer, any cost incurred by the returned  
employee will be borne by the employee.  
E. For the purposes of this Article, an assignment shall be considered  
non-commutable if the distance from the employee’s permanent resi-  
dence to the new work location is greater than that from the  
employee’s permanent residence to the former work location and the  
actual one-way commuting distance exceeds forty-five (45) miles or  
the actual one-way commuting time is greater than sixty (60) minutes  
by personal vehicle or greater than ninety (90) minutes by public  
transportation.  
   
### Section 2.09 ASSIGNMENT OF HEADQUARTERS  
(For Pacific Bell Home Entertainment, see  
Appendix B, Section B2.08)  
A. For purposes of this Article, the term “headquarters” shall be under-  
stood to mean the exchange (or the consolidated exchange area), as  
described in Section 2.09B, to which the employee is permanently  
assigned.  
B. Certain exchanges have been consolidated in order to facilitate force  
movements within general geographical areas. The exchanges and  
consolidated exchange areas (underlined) listed below are considered  
headquarters for purposes of this Article.  
ay  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA Lomita  
28  
Alhambra Long Beach  
Arcadia San Pedro  
Azusa Torrance  
El Monte El] Cajon  
Montebello Alpine  
Pasadena La Mesa  
Avalon Pine Valley  
Baker El Centro  
Arrowhead Brawley  
Banning Calexico  
Barstow Holtville  
Blythe Escondido  
Indio Borrego  
Palm Springs Encinitas  
Temecula Fallbrook  
Twentynine Palms Julian  
Yermo Oceanside  
Burbank Poway  
Glendale Ramona  
La Crescenta Rancho Bernardo  
Canoga Park Rancho Penasquitos  
Agoura Rancho Santa Fe  
Fillmore San Marcos  
Moorpark Valley Center  
Northridge Vista  
Ojai Lancaster  
Oxnard Los Angeles—Zone A  
Reseda Beverly Hills  
Santicoy Culver City  
Simi Los Angeles-Zone B  
Thousand Oaks Orange  
Ventura Anaheim  
Ventura—East Brea  
Chula Vista Buena Park  
Coronado Capistrano Valley  
National City Cypress  
San Ysidro Fullerton  
Compton Garden Grove  
Downey Irvine  
El Segundo Newport Beach  
Hawthorne Placentia  
Inglewood Saddleback Valley  
San Clemente  
Santa Ana  
Trabuco  
Yorba Linda  
Riverside  
Arlington  
Colton  
Corona  
Diamond Bar  
Fontana  
Highland  
Mira Loma  
Pomona  
Rialto  
San Bernardino  
Woodcrest  
San Diego  
Del Mar  
La Jolla  
Santa Barbara  
Santa Maria  
Santa Monica  
Van Nuys  
Newhall  
North Hollywood  
Palmdale  
Palmdale—FAA Center  
Palmdale—Pearblossom  
Santa Clarita Valley  
Victorville  
Whittier  
29  
Chico  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Auburn  
   
Beale Air Force Base  
Camino-Pollock Pines  
Grass Valley  
Lincoln  
Marysville  
Placerville  
South Placer  
Tahoe—North  
Tahoe—South  
Truckee  
Bakersfield  
Arvin  
Delano  
Edwards  
Mojave  
Mojave Switching Center  
Taft  
Tehachapi  
Wasco  
   
Downieville  
Gridley  
Orland  
Oroville  
Paradise  
Portola  
Quincy  
Willows  
Concord  
Antioch  
Bishop Ranch  
Crockett  
Danville  
Dublin  
East Contra Costa  
Lafayette  
Livermore  
Martinez  
Moraga  
Orinda  
Pittsburg  
Pleasanton  
Richmond-El Sobrante  
Rodeo  
Walnut Creek  
East Bay  
Hayward  
Eureka  
Arcata  
Fortuna  
Fresno  
Clovis  
Coalinga  
Dinuba  
Firebaugh  
Hanford  
Lemoore  
Madera  
Porterville  
Selma  
Tulare  
Visalia  
Modesto  
Atwater  
Chowchilla  
Los Banos  
Merced  
Newman  
Oakdale  
Turlock  
Yosemite  
Monterey  
Aptos  
Carmel  
Castroville  
Felton  
Hollister  
King City  
Salinas  
Santa Cruz  
Watsonville  
Napa  
Calistoga  
Fairfield-Suisun  
St. Helena  
30  
Sonoma  
Vacaville  
Vallejo  
Yountville  
Redding  
Anderson  
Central Valley  
Corning  
Cottonwood  
Dunsmuir  
Mt. Shasta  
Red Bluff  
Susanville  
Weed  
Yreka  
Sacramento  
Davis  
Dixon  
Dunnigan  
Fair Oaks  
Folsom  
Nimbus  
Rio Linda  
Woodland  
San Jose  
Campbell  
Fremont-Newark  
San Martin  
San Luis Obispo  
Arroyo Grande  
Atascadero  
Morro Bay  
Paso Robles  
San Mateo  
Half Moon Bay  
Los Altos  
Millbrae  
Mountain View  
Pacifica  
Palo Alto  
Redwood City  
San Carlos-Belmont  
South San Francisco  
Sunnyvale  
San Francisco  
San Rafael  
Belvedere  
Cloverdale  
Corte Madera  
Forestville  
Guerneville  
Healdsburg  
Ignacio  
Mill Valley  
Petaluma  
Point Reyes  
Santa Rosa  
Sausalito  
Sebastopol  
Stinson Beach-Bolinas  
Windsor  
Stockton  
Angels Camp  
Galt  
Jackson  
Lockeford  
Lodi  
San Andreas  
Sonora  
Tracy  
Ukiah  
Elk  
Fort Bragg  
Lakeport  
Lower Lake  
Middletown  
Point Arena  
Willits  
### NEVADA  
Austin  
Battle Mountain  
Beatty  
Carson City  
Crystal Bay  
Elko  
Ely  
Empire/Gerlach  
Fernley  
Hawthorne  
Indian Springs  
Las Vegas  
Lovelock  
Orovada  
Pahrump  
Reno  
Schurz  
Tonopah  
Virginia City  
Winnemucca  
31  
   
C. For the purposes of this Article, there will be two (2) zone areas within  
the Los Angeles headquarters. These zones shall consist of the terri-  
tory within the base rate boundary included within the following office  
boundaries:  
  
Angelus 3434 E. 4th  
Capitol 2445 Daly  
Clinton 1207 N. Ave. 56  
Dunkirk 720 S. Rampart  
Hollywood 1429 N. Gower  
Huntley 111 N. Union  
Madison 433 S. Olive  
Melrose 8075 Melrose  
Normandy 1255 N. Vermont  
Sunset 7323 Sunset  
Webster 666 S. La Brea  
### ZONE B  
Adams 501 E. Vernon  
Axminster 3233 W. Vernon  
Lorain 9420 Long Beach Blvd., South Gate  
Ludlow 6822 Santa Fe, Huntington Park  
Pleasant 6900 S. Vermont  
Plymouth 10600 S. Vermont  
Republic 1935 W. Adams  
Richmond 1900 S. Grand  
Spruce 6931 Atlantic, Bell  
As used in this Article, the term “headquarters” shall be understood to  
mean the zones described above when referring to the Los Angeles  
headquarters.  
32  
### ARTICLE 3  
### COMPANY-UNION RELATIONS  
Section 3.01 The Companies and the Union recognize that it is in the  
best interests of both parties, the employees and the public that all dealings  
between them continue to be characterized by mutual responsibility and  
respect. To insure that this relationship continues and improves, the Com-  
panies and the Union and their respective representatives at all levels will  
apply the terms of this Contract fairly in accord with its intent and mean-  
ing and consistent with the Union’s status as exclusive bargaining repre-  
sentative of all employees covered by this Contract. Each party shall bring  
to the attention of all employees in the units covered by this Contract,  
including new hires, their purpose to conduct themselves in a spirit of  
responsibility and respect and of the measures they have agreed upon to  
insure adherence to this purpose.  
### Section 3.02 MEETINGS BETWEEN UNION AND  
### MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVES  
A. An Officer of the Communications Workers of America National  
Union shall furnish currently to the Companies written lists of its duly  
authorized bargaining representatives and other persons authorized  
to represent the Union. The Companies shall likewise notify the Union  
of its authorized bargaining representatives. The Secretary or Secre-  
tary-Treasurer of each Local shall furnish currently to the Companies  
written lists of its representatives authorized to present and process  
grievances, subject to the approval of the Union.  
B. Except as provided in Section 3.04A, Paragraph B4 of this Section and  
in Section 3.02C, authorized representatives of the Union who are  
employees covered by this Contract, and aggrieved employees who  
also are covered by this Contract, shall suffer no loss of pay at straight-  
time when attending meetings with the Companies’ representatives  
when such meetings pertain to matters relating to employees repre-  
sented by the Communications Workers of America, subject to the  
following conditions:  
1. Pay shall be allowed only if (1) the employee has been excused  
from duty in advance by the employee’s supervisor to attend the  
meeting, (2) such meeting is held during said employee’s sched-  
uled straight-time working hours, (3) said employee would have  
33  
   
worked had the employee not attended such meeting and (4)  
such meeting pertains to matters relating to employees of the  
Companies represented by the Communications Workers of  
America.  
2. The time paid for shall be limited to actual meeting time, plus  
necessary time, if any, spent during scheduled straight-time work-  
ing hours in traveling between the employee’s point of work and  
the Union-Management meeting where both locations are within  
the same city. When both locations are not within the same city,  
paid travel time shall not exceed two (2) hours in each direction.  
For the purposes of this Paragraph the cities of Los Angeles and  
San Diego shall be deemed to include their respective extended  
areas.  
3. Paid time spent attending Union-Management meetings for pur-  
poses other than negotiating a written contract, and paid time  
spent by authorized Local representatives in attending grievance  
meetings, shall be considered as time worked.  
Such time spent in attending Union-Management meetings, as  
referred to in this Paragraph, shall be considered as excused time  
off for Union activities for the purposes of Article 3, Section  
3.03.  
4. The Companies reserve the right to limit the number of employ-  
ees who shall be paid while attending Union-Management meet-  
ings. The number of employees so paid at grievance meetings is  
specified in Article 7, Problem Resolution Procedures.  
When a Union-Management meeting ends a reasonable time prior to  
the completion of scheduled working hours, an employee who would  
be working if not attending such meeting, shall return to work.  
For meetings other than those specified in Section 3.04A or in Article  
7, up to two (2) authorized representatives from each Union Local who  
are employees covered by this Contract, and who are required, in the  
judgment of the Companies, to stay overnight may, with prior man-  
agement approval, receive reimbursement for reasonable travel and  
lodging expenses actually incurred in association with attending meet-  
ings with the Companies’ representatives when such meetings pertain  
to matters relating to employees represented by the Communications  
Workers of America, subject to the following conditions:  
34  
4.  
Reimbursement shall be allowed only if (1) the employee has  
been excused from duty in advance by the employee’s supervi-  
sor to attend the meeting, (2) such meeting is held during said  
employee’s scheduled straight-time working hours, (3) said  
employee would have worked had the employee not attended  
such meeting and (4) no expense payment other than that pro-  
vided for in 3.02F is granted to the employee.  
If a meeting with the Companies’ representatives is held on the  
employee’s non-scheduled day during a normal workweek, the  
expense reimbursement specified in Section 3.02D will be  
granted even though conditions 2 and 3 in Section 3.02D1 are not  
met.  
Union Local Presidents, who are employees covered by this Con-  
tract, and who are on unpaid Union activity time, are eligible to  
receive the payment specified in this Section 3.02D even though  
conditions 2 and 3 in Section 3.02D1 are not met.  
Mileage will be reimbursed in accordance with Article 5, Section  
5.05C4.  
For meetings other than those specified in Section 3.04A or in Article  
7, up to two (2) authorized representatives from each Union Local who  
are employees covered by this Contract, and who, in the judgment of  
the Companies, are not required to stay overnight may, with prior  
management approval, receive actual expense reimbursement for  
travel when such travel expense is incurred in association with attend-  
ing meetings with the Companies’ representatives when such meetings  
pertain to matters relating to employees represented by the Commu-  
nications Workers of America, subject to the following conditions:  
1.  
Reimbursement shall be allowed only if (1) the employee has  
been excused from duty in advance by the employee’s supervi-  
sor to attend the meeting, (2) such meeting is held during said  
employee’s scheduled straight-time working hours, (3) said  
employee would have worked had the employee not attended  
such meeting and (4) no other expense payment is granted to the  
employee.  
If a meeting with the Companies’ representatives is held on the  
employee’s non-scheduled day during a normal workweek, the  
expense reimbursement specified in Section 3.02E will be  
35  
   
4.  
granted even though conditions 2 and 3 in Section 3.02E1 are  
not met.  
Union Local Presidents, who are employees covered by this Con-  
tract, and who are on unpaid Union activity time, are eligible to  
receive the payment specified in this Section 3.02E even though  
conditions 2 and 3 in Section 3.02E1 are not met.  
Mileage will be reimbursed in accordance with Article 5, Section  
5.05C4.  
F. Union representatives who are eligible to receive reimbursement as  
specified in Section 3.02D may receive reimbursement for actual  
expense incurred for meals up to a maximum of thirty-five dollars  
($35.00) per day when meals are not provided by the Companies.  
### Section 3.03 TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITIES  
### A. GENERAL  
1.  
To the extent that the Companies determine that the requirements  
of the service permit, an employee who is an authorized repre-  
sentative of the Union and who is covered by this Contract will  
be given an excused absence without pay, or a leave of absence  
without pay, subject to the conditions stated hereafter. Such time  
off will generally not be granted in cases where an overtime or  
premium rate would have to be paid to the employee or employ-  
ees replacing the Union representatives. As used in this Article  
the terms “excused absence” and “leave of absence” are defined  
as follows:  
¢ EXCUSED ABSENCE — An unpaid absence not exceeding  
thirty (30) consecutive calendar days.  
¢ LEAVE OF ABSENCE - An unpaid absence of over thirty  
(30) consecutive calendar days covered by a written leave of  
absence.  
The period of excused absence shall be used solely for the pur-  
pose of enabling authorized representatives of the Union to carry  
on activities of the Union directly concerning its relations with  
the Companies in connection with employees of the Companies  
covered by this Contract, except that the period of absence may  
be used to attend, for short periods of time, national or regional  
conventions or meetings of the Union.  
36  
The period of leave of absence shall be used for the purpose of  
enabling authorized representatives of the Union to carry on  
activities of the Union concerning its relations with the Compa-  
nies in connection with employees of the Companies represented  
by the Union, within the States or portions of States served by the  
Companies, except that,  
a. the period of absence may be used to attend national or  
regional conventions or meetings of the Union, and  
b. the period of absence may be used by not more than  
seventy- five (75) employees at any one time in serving as  
officers or representatives of the Union outside the territory  
described in 3 above, and  
c. the period of absence may be used by not more than forty  
(40) employees at any one time to carry on activities of the  
Union concerning employees of other telephone companies  
represented by the Union or not represented by any Union,  
within the States or portions of States served by the Com-  
panies.  
A maximum of thirty (30) authorized representatives of the  
Union at any one time may use periods of excused time off or  
leave of absence for such other activities as may be agreed to by  
the Companies.  
Requests for leaves of absence for Union activities shall be made  
in writing by the appropriate Officer of the National Union direct-  
ing District 9 of the Union or the Union’s authorized representa-  
tive, specifying the reasons for such leaves.  
It is agreed that the Companies have the right to terminate a  
leave of absence at any time if it is used for purposes other than  
those specified in the written application.  
Requests for excused absence shall be made by the Union repre-  
sentatives authorized for such purpose in writing to the appro-  
priate Labor Relations Director, by the appropriate Officer of the  
National Union directing District 9 of the Union. Such requests  
may also be made by any of the three (3) principal Officers of a  
Local. The Secretary or Secretary-Treasurer of each Local shall  
furnish a list of such Local Officers to the appropriate Labor  
37  
   
10.  
Relations Director and shall furnish amendments to such lists as  
changes are made.  
The Union shall make all requests for excused absences or leaves  
of absence as far in advance as possible, ordinarily not less than  
forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the time the employee is to  
be off on excused absence and ordinarily not less than two (2)  
weeks in advance of the start of a leave of absence or renewal of  
same; the Companies shall act promptly on each request.  
No payment shall be made to an authorized Union representative  
for time spent in meetings with the Companies’ representatives  
while the Union representative is on an excused absence or leave  
of absence.  
No employee shall take time off for Union activities unless  
excused in advance by supervision.  
### EXCUSED ABSENCES  
I,  
The total of all excused absences granted to an authorized Union  
representative in each calendar year shall not exceed ninety (90)  
scheduled working days, or the equivalent thereof, in full days  
and/or fractional days. However, not more than one hundred fifty  
(150) authorized representatives of the Union may be granted  
excused absences not to exceed one hundred fifty (150) sched-  
uled working days, or the equivalent thereof, in full days and/or  
fractional days.  
A single period of excused absence shall not exceed thirty (30)  
consecutive calendar days.  
Meeting with the Companies’ representatives during a period of  
excused absence shall not be considered as breaking a continu-  
ous period of absence.  
Excused absences under this Section will be considered as time-  
worked for purposes of FMLA eligibility.  
NOTE: The provisions of this Section 3.03B will not apply to an  
employee who accepts a Staff position with the  
Communications Workers of America (CWA).  
### LEAVES OF ABSENCE  
1.  
A leave of absence will be required:  
38  
a. If acontinuous period of absence for Union activity exceeds  
thirty (30) consecutive calendar days.  
b. If an employee who is an authorized representative of the  
Union is to have time off for Union activities in excess of  
ninety (90) or one hundred fifty (150) scheduled working  
days computed as specified in Section 3.03B.  
c. As of April 1, 2001, if an employee, who is an authorized  
representative of the Union, accepts a Staff position with the  
Communications Workers of America.  
If a leave of absence is granted because an employee’s excused  
absences have exceeded ninety (90) or one hundred fifty (150)  
days computed as specified in Section 3.03B, the leave of  
absence shall be for a period beginning with the first scheduled  
working day after the last day worked and shall be for a period  
of not less than thirty-one (31) days.  
If the leave of absence is granted because an employee accepts a  
Staff position with the CWA, other than for a short-term tempo-  
rary backfill, the leave of absence will be for a period beginning  
with the first scheduled working day after the effective date of the  
CWA employment and will not be for a period of less than thirty-  
one (31) calendar days. The employee must remain on the leave  
of absence until one of the following occurs:  
a. The employee’s Staff position with the CWA is concluded  
and the employee notifies the Companies, in accordance  
with Section 3.03D, of his/her intent to return to work within  
the time allowed under Section 3.03C7 of this agreement.  
b. The employee would exceed the Union Leave of Absence  
time allowed under Section 3.03C7 of this agreement, at  
which time the employee would notify the Companies, in  
accordance with 3.03D, of his/her intent to return to work or  
terminate his/her employment with the Companies.  
The general rules of the Companies governing leaves of absence  
for personal reasons shall apply except as changed herein.  
At no time shall more than one hundred (100) employees be on  
leave of absence under this Article.  
39  
   
10.  
A leave of absence for Union activities or an extension of sucha  
leave shall be for a period of not more than one (1) year each.  
The total cumulative period of leave-of-absence for Union busi-  
ness shall not exceed twenty-one (21) years, all of which shall be  
counted as service credit in terms of employment. The payment  
of premiums for continuation of standard fringe benefits during  
a leave of absence for Union business shall be as follows:  
Medical/Dental/Vision Companies pay  
Group Insurance Companies pay  
Pension Band Will be determined by the  
employee’s last title and wage  
area prior to the start of the most  
recent leave of absence for  
Union business updated to  
current comparable title and  
wage area.  
In computing an employee’s net credited service for all purposes  
except wage progression, full credit shall be allowed for periods  
of leaves of absence for Union activities not exceeding twenty-  
one (21) years in the aggregate during the employee’s total ser-  
vice life. No credit for any purpose shall be allowed for such  
leaves in excess of twenty-one (21) years, nor shall credit be  
allowed for wage progression purposes for any period covered by  
leaves of absence granted pursuant to Section 3.03.  
When the period of a leave of absence for Union activities is to  
be included in computing an employee’s net credited service,  
the employee shall retain eligibility, if any, according to term of  
service, to:  
a. Death Benefits, and  
b. Short-Term Disability Benefits.  
In determining such employee’s eligibility to sickness  
disability benefits, the first day following termination of the  
leave of absence shall be considered as the first day of  
absence because of sickness.  
A leave of absence granted under this Article shall automatically  
terminate if at any time the employee on leave engages in any  
40  
gainful occupation other than as a representative of the Union or  
if the employee ceases to function as an authorized representative  
of the Union.  
### D. REINSTATEMENT OF EMPLOYEE UPON RETURN FROM  
### ABSENCE  
1.  
Authorized Union representatives upon return from excused  
absences or leaves of absence shall be reinstated at work gener-  
ally similar to that which they were engaged last prior to their  
absence, subject, however, to the provisions of Section 2.04B la.  
Employees shall be placed on the payroll at the rate then in effect  
for their assignment and for the period of service which was  
credited to them for wage purposes at the start of their absence.  
After receipt of notice from an employee to the Companies stat-  
ing the desire to terminate an excused absence or leave of  
absence prior to the specified termination date, the leave will be  
terminated upon the employee’s return to work as instructed by  
the Companies. However, a leave shall be terminated at the  
request of the employee prior to its stated expiration date as pro-  
vided in this Paragraph only in case the employee is able on the  
day of return to perform, on a full-time basis, the duties required  
of such an employee.  
### Section 3.04 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MEETINGS  
### BETWEEN UNION AND MANAGEMENT  
### REPRESENTATIVES  
A. The Companies will compensate up to four (4) authorized represen-  
tatives of the Union, who are active employees covered by this  
Contract, for attending meetings with Management for the purpose of  
negotiating a written Contract. This compensation will be at the  
employee’s basic straight time wage rate for scheduled workdays only  
and will not include any differential payments. The total days paid by  
the Companies for each employee will not exceed forty-five (45). The  
expenses of all Union representatives will be borne by the Union.  
Time spent in attending meetings with Management under this Section  
will not be considered time worked, except for the purpose of FMLA  
eligibility.  
41  
   
### Section 3.05 UNION ACTIVITIES ON THE  
A.  
### COMPANIES’ PREMISES  
Authorized representatives of the Union may be granted access to the  
Companies’ premises where employees covered by this Contract are  
located upon application to the appropriate Company supervisor at the  
location in question, subject to the Companies’ practices and the  
requirements of Government regulations.  
The Union or its members shall not carry on any type of Union activ-  
ities on the Companies’ premises, except as provided in Section 3.05C,  
unless advance approval has been given by appropriate Company  
supervision for such activities. The Companies reserve the right to cur-  
tail or prohibit any Union activity on any premises of the Companies  
when, in their judgment, such activity is not in accordance with the  
approval granted by appropriate Company supervision as provided in  
this Section 3.05B.  
Union activities involving the solicitation of members on the Compa-  
nies’ premises shall be carried on only in accordance with the  
following:  
1. Union representatives may solicit members among employees of  
the Companies in the Areas now represented by this Union.  
2. Such solicitation shall only be made during periods when neither  
the Union members nor the employees being solicited are on  
Company time, excluding paid rest and meal periods.  
3. Such solicitation shall not be carried on in space where the Com-  
panies’ operations or administrative work is being performed.  
4. Such solicitation shall be limited to small groups of employees  
(not to exceed four (4)).  
5. Such solicitation shall not interfere with the operations of the  
Companies or the use of the space for the purposes for which the  
space is intended.  
Authorized representatives of the Union may attend Union-Manage-  
ment meetings for the purposes of collective bargaining and discussing  
grievances presented to the Union by employees covered by this Con-  
tract when such meetings have been suitably arranged for in advance.  
42  
### Section 3.06 BULLETIN BOARDS  
A.  
Upon written request from the Union, the Companies agree to install  
or to move bulletin boards for the exclusive use of the Union. Bulletin  
boards and their designations shall be provided by the Union and shall  
be in accordance with the Companies’ specifications. The size of the  
bulletin boards shall be approximately 18" x 36", 24" x 36" or  
12" x 24" in dimensions. The number and location of bulletin boards  
shall be determined jointly by the Companies and the Union with due  
regard to visibility and accessibility to employees for whom the Union  
is the recognized representative. Each bulletin board shall be  
designated specifically as follows:  
### UNION BULLETIN BOARD  
Local (Number), Communications Workers of America  
Letters in such designation shall not be over 1-1/2" high. The overall  
size of the designation shall not extend beyond the bulletin board  
itself, or be more than 24" long by 2" high, and shall be in a horizontal  
position within 3" of the top of the bulletin board.  
Unless otherwise agreed upon in advance by the Companies, the  
Union agrees not to post or distribute Union material any place on the  
Companies’ premises other than on Union bulletin boards. Unless  
otherwise agreed upon in advance by the Companies, the Union also  
agrees that Union bulletin boards shall be used solely for notices and  
announcements concerning Union meetings, elections, appointments  
to office, social, educational, or recreational affairs and agreements  
concluded between the Union and the Companies. Posted notices and  
announcements shall be appropriately identified as Union material  
intended for posting and shall ordinarily bear the signature of an  
authorized representative of the Union. Should the Union desire to  
post subject matter other than the material specified above, it shall  
obtain advance approval from the Companies before such subject  
matter is posted.  
Material posted shall not contain anything controversial or anything  
derogatory to the Companies or any of their employees. The Union  
assumes responsibility for complete compliance with the provisions  
herein contained. Should the Union post material which, in the judg-  
ment of the Companies, is at variance with the spirit and intent of this  
43  
   
Section, such material shall be immediately removed by the Union  
upon notification by the Companies.  
If the Union violates any provision of Section 3.06B or Section 3.06C,  
the Companies, after giving due notice of such violation, may deny the  
right of the Union to use any or all bulletin boards on the Companies’  
premises, and may remove any or all such bulletin boards.  
### Section 3.07 UNION SECURITY  
A.  
Each employee who is a member of the Union or who is obligated to  
tender to the Union amounts equal to periodic dues on the effective  
date of this Contract, or who later becomes a member, and all employ-  
ees entering into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of  
this Contract shall, as a condition of employment, pay or tender to the  
Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members for  
the period from such effective date or, in the case of employees enter-  
ing into the bargaining unit after the effective date, on or after the  
thirtieth day after such entrance, whichever of these dates is later,  
until the termination of this Contract. For purpose of this Section,  
“employee” shall mean any person entering into the bargaining unit,  
except an Occasional employee.  
Each employee who is a member of the bargaining unit on or before  
the effective date of this Agreement and who on the effective date of  
this Agreement was not required as a condition of employment to pay  
or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable  
to members shall, as a condition of employment, pay or tender to the  
Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members for  
the period beginning thirty (30) days after the effective date of this  
Agreement, until the termination of this Agreement.  
The condition of employment specified above shall not apply during  
periods of formal separation from the bargaining unit by any such  
employee but shall reapply to such employee on the thirtieth day  
following the employee’s return to the bargaining unit. The term  
“formal separation” includes transfers out of the bargaining unit,  
removal from the payroll of the Companies and leaves of absence of  
more than one month duration.  
The Companies may inform employees and applicants for employ-  
ment of their rights and obligations under the provisions of this  
Section.  
44  
This Section shall apply only in the State of California on the effec-  
tive date of this Contract. If during the term of this Contract the Union  
shall become duly authorized under the laws of the State of Nevada to  
enter into this type of union security agreement, the effective date of  
this Section as to employees in Nevada shall be the date upon which  
the Companies receive proper written evidence from the Union that it  
is fully qualified to enter into such an agreement in Nevada. Upon  
proper written notification that the Union is qualified to enter into a  
union security agreement, this entire Section will become applicable  
to employees in Nevada.  
### Section 3.08 PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES  
A.  
The Companies agree that, upon receipt of an individual written  
request on a form approved by the Companies and signed by an  
employee covered by this Contract, they will deduct monthly from  
such employee’s wages the amount of Union dues specified in such  
request and forward the full amount thus deducted to the Secretary-  
Treasurer of the Union or the Union’s authorized agent as directed.  
1. For all employees of the Companies in California, the request  
may be revoked at any time upon the employee’s written request  
to the Company and such request should be directed to the Labor  
Relations Director, San Ramon, as appropriate. For employees of  
the Companies in Nevada who currently have executed dues  
deduction cards on file, the dues deduction request may be  
revoked at any time upon the employee’s written request to the  
Company and such request should be directed to the Labor Rela-  
tions Director, San Ramon. For employees of the Companies in  
Nevada who execute dues deduction cards as described in Sec-  
tion 3.08E after the effective date of this bargaining agreement,  
cancellation of payroll deduction authorizations will be made as  
specified in Section 3.08E.  
2. In general, dues deductions will be made in a designated pay-  
period in the current month for properly executed dues deduction  
authorizations received in the appropriate Accounting Center on  
or before the fifth day of the preceding month. However, the  
Companies assume no responsibility either to the employee or to  
the Union for any failure to make or for any errors made in  
45  
   
making such deductions, but will make such efforts as they deem  
appropriate in correcting any such errors or omissions.  
Authorizations for dues deductions shall be “open-ended” to provide  
for the deduction of dues in an amount which is certified to the Com-  
panies in writing by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union as being the  
regular monthly membership dues of the particular Local involved.  
The form of such individual authorization card shall be as approved by  
the Companies.  
The written certification changing the amount of dues to be deducted  
must be delivered to the Executive Director - Labor Relations on or  
before the fifth work day of the month preceding the month in which  
the first deduction at the new rate is to be made effective, together with  
a list of the work locations and Union Local affected by the change.  
The Companies agree to furnish the Union at the time of remitting the  
dues deducted, a list, on magnetic tape, of the names of those employ-  
ees represented by the Union and the amount of dues deducted. The  
content and form of other employee information to be furnished to the  
Union on magnetic tape shall be such as agreed upon by the parties  
from time to time.  
The following Section applies only to employees in Nevada. Autho-  
rizations for dues deductions executed pursuant to Article 3.08A after  
August 6, 1989 shall specify that dues deductions may be revoked  
only within the fourteen (14) day period immediately prior to each  
anniversary of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement or during  
the fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the termination date of the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
Cancellations by employees of such written payroll deduction author-  
izations must be in writing and such cancellation requests must be sent  
individually by certified mail to the Labor Relations Director, San  
Ramon, postmarked or received during the fourteen (14) day period  
described in 3.08E. After receipt of such cancellation the Company  
will discontinue the payroll deduction in the month following that in  
which the cancellation is received and will notify the Union of the  
action taken.  
Cancellation of dues deduction authorizations will be made by the  
Companies on the permanent transfer or promotion of an employee to  
an ineligible position effective the first payroll period following the  
46  
transfer or promotion and the Companies will notify the Union of  
such cancellation.  
It is agreed that the payroll deduction of Union dues shall be in lieu of  
Union collection of dues, assessments and contributions on the  
Companies’ premises where work operations are being performed and  
while Union representatives and/or the employees involved are on  
Company time.  
The Union shall indemnify and hold the Companies harmless against  
any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability that may  
arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Compa-  
nies for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this Article,  
or in reliance on any dues deduction card furnished under the  
provisions of this Article or on any certification by the Union.  
### Section 3.09 NON-DISCRIMINATION  
A.  
In a desire to restate their respective policies, neither the Companies  
nor the Union shall unlawfully discriminate against any employee  
because of such employee’s race, color, religion, sex, age, marital sta-  
tus, sexual orientation, or national origin or because the person is dis-  
abled, a special disabled veteran, a disabled veteran or a veteran of the  
Vietnam era.  
The Companies and the Union recognize that potential conflicts may  
arise between obligations under the Americans With Disabilities Act  
(ADA) and the terms of the Contract. In order to minimize disputes  
between the Companies and the Union due to any such potential con-  
flicts and to ensure timely resolution, the parties agree that all issues  
regarding actions which the Companies believe to be consistent with  
the ADA and the Union believes to be in conflict with the Contract will  
be referred to and addressed by a National Union Representative, a  
representative from the affected Union Local, the Labor Relations  
Director (or authorized representative) and a representative from the  
affected Company department (“ADA Liaison  
1. The ADA Liaison Committee is empowered to resolve any issues  
or problems regarding a potential conflict between obligations  
under the ADA and the terms of this Contract.  
2. Agreements made by the ADA Liaison Committee will not prej-  
udice the position of either party and will not be cited in any other  
47  
   
proceeding. Such agreements will not be subject to the grievance  
and arbitration process.  
3. Unresolved issues or problems regarding potential conflicts will  
not delay or defer the Companies’ actions. If the ADA Liaison  
Committee is unable to resolve a dispute, the issue(s) regarding  
appropriate actions under the ADA and the Contract may then be  
addressed under the arbitration provisions of the Contract. To  
ensure timely resolution of such disputes, the grievance proce-  
dure shall be bypassed and the matter may be submitted directly  
to arbitration.  
C. It is mutually agreed that neither party shall interfere with, restrain,  
coerce, or otherwise discriminate against employees in their right to  
join or assist, or refrain from joining or assisting, any labor organiza-  
tion.  
D. The Companies shall not interfere with, restrain, coerce, intimidate or  
otherwise discriminate against any employee because of membership  
or lawful activity in forwarding the interests or purposes of the Union.  
### Section 3.10 FEDERAL OR STATE LAWS  
In the event any Federal or State law or regulation or governmental order,  
or the final decision of any court or board of competent jurisdiction affects  
any one or more provisions of this Contract, the provision or provisions so  
affected shall be made to comply with the requirements of such law, regu-  
lation, governmental order, or decision for the localities within the juris-  
diction and otherwise the Contract shall continue in full force and effect.  
48  
### ARTICLE 4  
### JOB TITLES AND CLASSIFICATIONS  
### Section 4.01 NEW JOB TITLES AND JOB  
A.  
### CLASSIFICATIONS  
Whenever the Companies determine it appropriate to create a new job  
(1.e., a new title or use of a current job title for a new position being  
established in a fifth level organization or next lower level organiza-  
tion if no fifth level organization exists), in the bargaining unit, during  
the life of the contract, they shall proceed as follows:  
1.  
The Companies will notify the Union before an Occupational Job  
Evaluation (OJE) is conducted, including the reason for the OJE,  
the rationale behind the request, the number of incumbents (pro-  
posed) and work location(s) (proposed). Following such notice to  
the Union, the Companies may proceed to complete the OJE and  
establish a provisional job title and wage schedule.  
The Companies will notify the Union of the provisional job title  
and wage schedule that is established. Following such notice to  
the Union, the Companies may proceed to staff such job title at  
the determined wage schedule. The Companies will conduct a  
follow-up review to assess whether the provisional rating remains  
appropriate. The follow-up review will occur no less than six (6)  
months after staffing. After the Companies’ follow-up review is  
completed, the Union will be notified. Notification will include  
the specific justifications for the recommended title(s) and/or  
wage schedule(s).  
Whenever the Companies, during the life of the Contract, determine  
it appropriate to reclassify a job title or wage schedule because the job  
content of an existing job has changed due to new technology or func-  
tionalization they shall proceed as follows:  
1.  
The Companies will notify the Union before an Occupational Job  
Evaluation (OJE) is conducted, including the reason for the OJE,  
the rationale behind the request, the number of incumbents (exist-  
ing) and work location(s) (existing). Following such notice to the  
Union, the Companies may proceed to complete the OJE and  
reclassify the job title or wage schedule.  
49  
   
2. The Companies will notify the Union of any reclassification of  
the title or the wage schedule including the specific justifications  
used to make the determination leading to such reclassifica-  
tion(s). Following such notice to the Union, the Companies may  
proceed to staff such job title or classification. Wage Adminis-  
trative practices in Appendix C, Section(s) C8.02 and C8.04,  
respectively, will be applied for upgraded or lateral reclassifica-  
tions, however, step down from maximum referenced in  
C8.02C and D will not apply to upgrades. The Job Evaluation  
Transition Pay Plan (JETPP) Memorandum of Agreement will be  
applied for reclassifications resulting in a downgrade. Any title or  
wage schedule change will be effective with the next payroll  
period following notification to the Department.  
NOTE: No other reclassification of existing jobs will occur  
during the life of this Contract; rather any such reclassi-  
fications will normally be negotiated during bargaining.  
The Companies agree to meet with the Union upon the Union’s  
request to discuss any aspect of the job evaluation process which led  
to the Companies’ decision regarding the recommended title and/or  
wage schedule, including the rationale used by the Companies to  
arrive at the Companies’ recommended title and/or wage schedule.  
Within thirty (30) calendar days from the Union’s receipt of the Sec-  
tion 4.01B2 reclassification notice or no later than thirty (30) calendar  
days from the Union’s receipt of the Section follow-up notice,  
the Union shall have the right to initiate negotiations concerning the  
wage rates or schedules established or changed by the Companies.  
If negotiations are not so initiated within the thirty (30) calendar day  
periods described in Section 4.01D or if agreement is reached between  
the parties concerning the wage rates and schedules within sixty (60)  
calendar days following receipt of the Section 4.01A2 follow-up  
notice or the Section 4.01B2 reclassification notice, the wage rates and  
schedules set by the Companies or agreed to by the Parties, shall  
remain in effect.  
If negotiations are so initiated pursuant to Section 4.01D and if the par-  
ties are unable to reach agreement on the schedule of wage rates  
within sixty (60) calendar days following the Union’s receipt of the  
Section 4.01A2 follow-up notice or the Section 4.01B2 reclassification  
notice, the Union must notify the Companies in writing of its intention  
50  
to submit the issue of an appropriate schedule of wage rates to a Neu-  
tral Third Party for resolution, to be selected as set forth in Section  
4.01G.  
NOTE: The Union’s written notice shall specify the wage schedule  
the Union believes should be assigned to the job in question  
and the reasons why.  
If such notification is not received by the Companies within sixty (60)  
days of the Union’s receipt of the Section 4.01A2 follow-up notice or  
the Section 4.01B2 reclassification notice, the matter shall be consid-  
ered settled in the Companies’ favor and shall not be subject to further  
handling under this procedure, nor may the issue be submitted to the  
problem resolution, grievance and arbitration procedures.  
The Neutral Third Party previously referred to shall be selected by  
mutual agreement of the parties from a panel of six (6) arbitrators  
selected for their expertise in the field of job evaluation.  
The members of the panel may be changed by mutual agreement of the  
parties. Though the panel members will normally receive first con-  
sideration, the parties reserve the right to jointly select a Neutral Third  
Party outside of the panel to serve on an ad hoc basis.  
1. The Neutral Third Party will render a written decision within  
fifteen (15) working days after the hearing.  
2. The Neutral Third Party is empowered to decide only whether the  
wage schedule assigned by the Companies or the wage schedule  
requested by the Union is the appropriate wage schedule.  
3. The Neutral Third Party is not empowered to assign a wage  
schedule and title classification that is not currently contained in  
the collective bargaining agreement or to render a decision on any  
other issues.  
4. The Neutral Third Party shall have no authority to add to, subtract  
from, or modify any provisions of the collective bargaining  
agreement.  
The procedures set forth in Section 4.01 shall be the exclusive means  
by which the Union may dispute the schedule of wage rates which the  
Companies set for any new, restructured or redefined job title or clas-  
sification established by Section(s) 4.01A and B. Disputes regarding  
job classifications which are not governed by this Section 4.01 may be  
51  
   
pursued under the Problem Resolution Procedures set forth in  
Article 7.  
### Section 4.02 ASSIGNING TITLES  
A.  
The assignment of particular titles to employees with titles listed in  
Appendix A, Sections A1.01, A2.01, A3.01 and A4.01 and Appendix  
B, does not mean that they shall perform only the kind of work com-  
ing under their title classification, nor that certain kinds of work shall  
be performed exclusively by certain classifications of employees.  
Except as provided for in Appendix A, Sections A3.05B and C an  
employee assigned to work falling in a higher wage group (other than  
work incidental to the lower classification) shall, during the period the  
employee is assigned to work falling in a higher wage group, be  
assigned a title in the wage group in which the employee works a  
greater part of the normal workweek for a period of one week or  
more.  
Employees who are regularly assigned to work coming under more  
than one (1) title classification listed in Appendix A, Sections A1.01  
and A2.01, or Appendix B, which carry identical wages and working  
conditions, shall be classified under the title which covers the work on  
which they are engaged for the greater part of the time.  
### Section 4.03 PART-TIME, TERM, TEMPORARY AND  
A.  
### OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
A part-time employee is one who is employed and normally scheduled  
to work less hours per average month than a comparable full-time  
employee in the same job title, classification and work group working  
the same normal daily tour. Treatment of a part-time employee under  
the Companies’ benefit plans and payment programs is dependent on  
the employee’s “average workweek” and whether the employee is  
“grandfathered.”  
### 1. “GRANDFATHERED” PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
a. Certain part-time employees shall be “grandfathered” as  
follows:  
1. Regular part-time employees who were on the active  
payroll of the Companies as of December 31, 1980  
52  
and who were classified as part-time on August 9, 1992  
shall be “grandfathered” so long as they continue to be  
classified as part-time; and  
2. Regular employees who were on the active payroll of  
the Companies as of December 31, 1980, who were  
classified as full-time on August 9, 1992, and who  
become classified as part-time as a result of surplus in  
which there are no Regular commutable full-time jobs  
available for which they are qualified, shall be “grand-  
fathered” so long as they continue to be classified as  
part-time, unless and until such time as they have been  
offered, and have rejected, the opportunity to be placed  
in a commutable Regular full-time job.  
“Grandfathered” employees shall, during the applicable  
term of part-time employment, receive payments under ben-  
efit plans and payment programs on the same basis as was  
applicable to part-time employees on December 31, 1980.  
### ALL OTHER PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
All part-time employees who are not “grandfathered” shall  
receive payments under the Companies’ benefit plans and  
payment programs as described in this section.  
a.  
Part-time employees who are not “grandfathered” include,  
but are not limited to:  
1. Employees who were on the active payroll of the Com-  
panies as of December 31, 1980 and who were not  
classified as part-time on August 9, 1992; and  
2. Regular part-time employees who were hired or  
rehired on or after January 1, 1981.  
When an employee begins working part-time the “average  
workweek” will be determined in advance by dividing the  
employee’s normally expected scheduled hours per month  
by 4.35 and rounding the result to the next higher whole  
number. (For example: 68 hours per month divided by 4.35  
equals 15.6, rounded to an average workweek of 16 hours).  
This “average workweek” will apply until an employee has  
worked a full calendar quarter as a part-time employee.  
93  
   
After an employee has worked a full calendar quarter as a  
part-time employee, the “average workweek” will be rede-  
termined as of the end of each calendar quarter during which  
the employee was classified as a part-time employee for the  
entire quarter. The “average workweek” for the following  
quarter will be determined by averaging all hours worked  
during the prior quarter. This average includes:  
(1) Hours worked up to a maximum of eight (8) per day or  
forty (40) per week; and  
(2) Hours scheduled or assigned to be worked but excused,  
paid or unpaid.  
(3) The total of (1) & (2) above will be limited to a maxi-  
mum of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) per week.  
For periods of service as a part-time employee after January  
1, 1993, proration calculations for wages or service for each  
of the following benefit plans and payment programs will be  
based on the relationship of the individual part-time  
employee’s “average workweek” to a forty (40) hour  
workweek:  
Pension Plan  
Comprehensive Disability Benefit Plan  
Life Insurance Plans  
Savings Plan  
Severance Plans  
Vacation, Holiday and Paid Personal Days Off  
Sickness Absence Payments  
Team Performance Award  
The revised calculation method will not apply retroactively,  
and employees receiving disability benefits under the Com-  
prehensive Disability Benefits Plan, sickness absence pay-  
ments, or vacation payments on January 1, 1993 will  
continue to receive the same level of benefits until their  
eligibility for such benefits or payments expires.  
Monthly contributions to the Medical, Dental and Vision  
Plans will be prorated using the same percentage calculated  
in Section 4.03A2b or 4.03A2c as applicable. The Compa-  
nies will pay that percent of the cost of coverage for  
54  
Medical, Dental and Vision care. The part-time employee  
will pay the difference between the Company contributions  
and the cost of the plan.  
3. A part-time employee shall not be paid Sickness Absence pay-  
ments under Section 5.01F unless such absence due to sickness  
occurs on a day of the week on which the employee is normally  
scheduled to work and a full-time employee in the same circum-  
stance would be paid.  
### TERM EMPLOYEES:  
Term employees are those engaged for a specific project or limited  
period with the definite understanding that their employment is to ter-  
minate upon completion of the project or at the end of the period.  
Employment is expected to continue for more than one (1) year, but  
no more than three (3) years. Term employees are covered by all  
provisions of this Contract except where otherwise provided.  
Term employees are not to be assigned work which would directly  
result in the surplus or layoff of Regular employees in the same title  
and administrative unit to which they are assigned.  
### TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES  
1. Temporary employees are those engaged for a specific project or  
a limited period, with the definite understanding that their  
employment is to terminate upon completion of the project or at  
the end of the period, and whose employment is expected to con-  
tinue for more than three consecutive weeks but not for more than  
one year.  
2. All Temporary employees shall be advised of their employment  
status and all pertinent information related thereto at the time of  
hiring.  
3. All provisions of this Contract shall apply to Temporary  
employees, except where otherwise provided.  
4. Should the term of employment of a Temporary employee exceed  
one year, then the employee will be reclassified to a Term  
employee effective with the first day following the completion of  
one year.  
a. The maximum term of employment for a Temporary  
employee who is reclassified to Term under the provisions  
95  
   
of this Section 4.03C4 will be three (3) years from the date  
of hiring as a Temporary employee.  
b. A Temporary employee who is reclassified to Term under  
the provisions of this Section 4.03C4 will be eligible for  
Term employee benefits as described in Section 4.03E from  
the time of reclassification.  
c. A Temporary employee who is reclassified to Term under  
the provisions of this Section 4.03C4 will be eligible for  
vacation and Personal Days Off in accordance with the pro-  
visions of Article 6, Sections 6.02A1 and 6.04 applicable to  
Term employees, from the date of reclassification. How-  
ever, nothing in this Section will cause such a reclassified  
employee to receive more vacation or Personal Days Off  
than they would have received had they been classified as a  
Term employee from the date of hiring as a Temporary  
employee.  
### OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES  
An Occasional employee is one who is engaged on a daily basis for a  
period of not more than three (3) consecutive weeks, or for a cumula-  
tive total of not more than thirty (30) days, in any calendar year,  
regardless of the length of the daily or weekly assignments. An Occa-  
sional employee who actually works or is engaged to work in excess  
of three (3) consecutive weeks or thirty (30) days in a calendar year  
shall be reclassified as a Regular or Temporary, full-time or part-time  
employee as appropriate.  
### BENEFIT ELIGIBILITY  
Employees are eligible to participate in employee benefit plans and  
other payment programs as shown below. Specific eligibility require-  
ments are as described in individual plan documents or terms  
described elsewhere in the Contract or Company policies.  
56  
### REGULAR TERM TEMPORARY OCCASIONAL  
### EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE  
Medical Plan YES YES NO NO  
Dental Plan YES YES NO NO  
Vision Plan YES YES NO NO  
### YES NO  
Life Insurance Plan YES ¥ES NO NO  
Savings Plan YES YES YES NO  
Severance Plans YES NO NO NO  
Pension Plan YES YES NO* NO*  
Pension Death Benefit YES YES YES YES  
Tuition Aid YES YES NO NO  
Concession YES YES YES NO  
jes NO  
Adoption YES YES NO NO  
### CarePlus YES YES NO NO  
Long Term Care YES YES NO NO  
Spending Account YES YES NO NO  
“Employees with no previous Bell System service are not eligible. Others may be eligible for  
participation dependent on past service and past eligibility and on specific terms of the Plan  
Document.  
   
5/7  
### NOTES  
98  
### ARTICLE 5  
### WORK ADMINISTRATION, COMPENSATION AND  
### SPECIAL PAYMENTS  
### Section 5.01 WAGE SCHEDULES AND PAYMENTS  
A. Employees in titles listed in Appendix A, Sections A1.01, A2.01,  
A4.01 or Appendix B shall be paid at their weekly basic rate of pay for  
forty (40) hours of work. Employees in titles listed in Appendix A,  
Section A3.01 shall be paid at the basic rate per week as established  
for their respective title classifications. The wage schedules and top  
rates of pay shall be as stated in Appendix C3 of this Contract.  
In any case where a Company building is located upon property which  
lies within two (2) exchanges, and if such exchanges are classified dif-  
ferently for wage rate purposes, any employee who is regularly  
assigned to report for work in such a Company building shall be paid  
at the wage rate that pertains to the higher exchange classification.  
B. Except as provided in Section 5.01D, wage increases in the amounts  
shown in the schedules shall be granted automatically on completion  
of the time intervals specified.  
1. No wage increase shall become effective during a period of  
absence in excess of seven (7) calendar days, paid vacations  
excepted.  
a. Aperiod of absence of seven (7) calendar days or less shall  
have no effect on the establishment of the effective date of  
increase.  
b. If the effective date for a scheduled increase occurs during  
a period of absence in excess of seven (7) calendar days, but  
not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, the increase will  
become effective on the day the employee returns to work.  
Such adjustment in the effective date of this increase shall  
not change the date from which the time interval for the next  
increase would otherwise be computed.  
c. If the effective date for a scheduled increase occurs during  
a period of absence of over thirty (30) calendar days, the first  
thirty (30) calendar days of such absence shall be credited  
to the employee’s previously accrued time on the wage  
59  
   
2s  
progression schedule and the increase shall become effec-  
tive either on the day the employee returns to work if the  
employee has been credited with the necessary time interval  
for the next increase, or after the employee has worked the  
remainder of the applicable wage progression time interval.  
In no case shall the application of the provisions of this Section  
5.01B operate to make an increase effective on a date earlier  
than would have resulted had no absence occurred.  
When an employee is absent for more than thirty (30) consecutive cal-  
endar days, only the first thirty (30) calendar days of such absence  
shall be credited to the employee’s previously accrued total schedule  
time on the wage schedule.  
### FLEXIBLE STARTING RATES  
1.  
When, in the judgment of the Companies, an increase becomes  
desirable in starting rates for any or all title classifications in a  
particular exchange listed in Appendix C4 of this Contract, the  
Companies will so notify the Union and will discuss with the  
Union both the starting rate and method of progression from the  
new starting rate to the particular existing schedule.  
If the Union and the Companies reach an agreement thereon, the  
schedule for such title classification or title classifications  
between the points where the old schedule is reached and the  
maximum rate, as well as the overall schedule length, will remain  
unchanged; and the employees to whom such altered schedule  
applies will be placed on the altered schedule with the same total  
schedule time they had on the previous schedule.  
If the Companies and the Union fail to reach agreement within  
fifteen (15) days after the above date of notification of said pro-  
posal, such schedule shall remain unchanged.  
The Companies may discontinue or reduce the amount of such  
increased starting rates at any time but such discontinuance or  
reduction shall not cause a decrease in the wage rate of any  
employee whose wage rate was increased under Subparagraph 1  
or 2 of this Section 5.01D. The application of this Subparagraph  
4 shall not result in starting rates lower than those on the old  
schedule.  
60  
An employee hired with previous wage experience credit, military  
service, technical training, typing or key punch skills useful to the  
Companies shall be granted wage credit in accordance with the wage  
credit practice agreement.  
All employees with at least one (1) year of service shall be paid for  
sickness absence beginning with the first scheduled working day of  
absence. Sickness absence payments shall be limited to a maximum of  
five (5) days in the seven (7) day period.  
1. The scheduled working days referred to in this Section 5.01F  
shall be computed in accordance with the pattern of scheduled  
days of the workweek in which the sickness absence first  
occurred regardless of the number of scheduled workdays in that  
week. This pattern shall be deemed to continue into all subse-  
quent workweeks of such absence for determining work time  
lost and days for which sickness absence should be paid.  
2. Sickness absence shall not be deemed to continue into the second  
workweek unless such absence includes the first scheduled day  
of the original work schedule for the second week.  
When employees report on the job for duty on a scheduled day and  
subsequently become sick and are excused by the supervisor before  
completion of their tour of duty, they will be paid at straight time for  
the remainder of the full tour of duty for which scheduled.  
Sickness absence payments referred to in Sections 5.01F and 5.01G  
above shall include any shift or job differentials which the employee  
would have received had the employee worked, but shall not include  
any extra payments which would have been received had the  
employee worked, such as Sunday, holiday, or overtime extra  
payments.  
The supervisor shall decide whether employees with titles listed in  
Appendix A, Sections A1.01, A2.01 or Appendix B, shall work or be  
excused from duty because of bad weather conditions. If the supervi-  
sor decides that the employees cannot work, they shall be paid for the  
balance of the half-tour that they were excused from duty. If the  
employees are notified at or before noon, no payment will be made for  
the afternoon. Employees who do not report for duty shall not be paid  
under the provisions of this Section.  
61  
   
When an employee in titles listed in Appendix A, Section A3.01, is  
transferred from night work to day or evening work at management’s  
request and loses a day’s work opportunity because of the transfer,  
wage payment shall be made for the day lost at straight-time at the  
employee’s normal rate of pay.  
Employees shall be paid bi-weekly, payment of wages due for the two-  
week pay-period to be made when practicable not later than the Friday  
following the last day of the pay-period. When practicable, paychecks  
shall be distributed in sufficient time to permit employees to cash  
their checks within normal banking hours on the regular pay day.  
### Section 5.02 RELIEF DIFFERENTIALS  
A.  
A fixed relief differential of eight dollars ($8.00) a day will be paid to  
any employee in any title who, in addition to normal duties or in the  
performance of a new assignment, temporarily relieves or assists a  
manager for a half tour or more. These assignments may involve plan-  
ning, distributing, directing, coordinating and training responsibilities  
other than induction or orientation. The assignment specifically  
excludes disciplining.  
A three dollar ($3.00) daily differential will be paid when an Opera-  
tor relieves a Service Assistant, Service Assistant—Bilingual or a  
Central Office Associate for a half tour or more.  
Section 5.03 SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS (For Pacific Bell  
Home Entertainment, see Appendix B,  
Section B2.07)  
An employee specified in Sections 5.03A1 or 5.03A2 who works a  
regular shift, any part of which falls after 7:00 P.M. or prior to  
6:00 A.M., shall receive a shift differential in accordance with the  
following:  
1. Anemployee in a title listed in Appendix A, Sections A1.01 or  
A2.01 shall receive a shift differential in the amount of ten (10)  
percent of the employee’s weekly basic rate of pay, except that  
when premium payments are paid for a temporary change of  
shift in accordance with Appendix A, Section A1.05D, or A2.03F  
as appropriate, a shift differential will not be paid.  
62  
Note: An employee who works a scheduled shift on a Sunday or  
Holiday, any part of which falls after 7:00 P.M. or prior to  
6:00 A.M., shall receive a shift differential without regard  
to his/her regular shift.  
a. The shift differential shall be added to the basic rate of pay  
and the combined rate shall be used in computing vacation  
payments, overtime payments, holiday payments and  
Sunday payments, except that the differential shall not be  
added in computing the vacation pay of a regular day shift  
employee who, at the start of vacation, had been working a  
tour for which a differential is paid but who, upon return  
from vacation, is scheduled to work a day shift for a period  
of one (1) week or more.  
b. When only a part of the week is involved, the differential  
shall be prorated on the basis of a five (5) day week, that is,  
one (1) day’s differential is one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly  
differential.  
c. An employee receiving a differential who is temporarily  
assigned to a day shift in connection with training assign-  
ments, vacation reliefs or training reliefs for a period of one  
(1) week or more but less than two (2) weeks shall retain the  
shift differential but shall not receive premium pay for the  
change of shift. Such vacation relief shall be deemed to  
include any additional days which the employee on vacation  
may take immediately preceding or following the  
employee’s vacation.  
An employee who is temporarily assigned to an evening or  
night shift for purposes of training assignments, vacation  
reliefs or training reliefs for a period of one (1) week or  
more shall receive the appropriate shift differential, but shall  
not receive premium pay for a change of shift. Such vaca-  
tion relief shall be deemed to include any additional days  
which the evening or night shift employee may take imme-  
diately preceding or following the employee’s vacation.  
An employee in a title listed in Appendix A, Sections A3.01B or  
A4.01 shall receive a shift differential in the amount of ten (10)  
percent of the employee’s weekly basic rate of pay, including  
relief differential, if any.  
63  
   
a. The shift differential paid under the provisions of Section  
5.03A2 shall be added to the basic rate of pay in computing  
vacation, overtime, holiday and Sunday payments.  
b. The shift differential shall be for a full-time week of five (5)  
shifts. When an employee works less than a full-time week  
of five (5) shifts to which a differential is applicable, the  
shift differential will be prorated; that is, one-fifth (1/5) of  
the weekly differential will be paid for each full shift  
worked for which the differential is provided in Section  
5.03A2.  
B. An employee in a title listed in Appendix A, Sections A3.01A or  
A3.01C who works an early morning, evening or night tour of duty  
shall receive a wage differential in an amount specified in Appendix  
C, for the appropriate unit, applying as shown in Appendix A, Section  
A3.05. The wage differential specified is for one (1) full tour of duty.  
The differential will be added to the basic wage rate in computing  
vacation, overtime, holiday and Sunday payments.  
C. An employee in a title listed in Appendix A, Sections A3.01A or  
A3.01C who works at least part of both sessions of a morning-evening  
tour (split-tour) shall receive a differential of four dollars ($4.00). The  
differential will be added to the basic wage rate in computing vacation,  
overtime, holiday, Sunday and Personal Days Off.  
Section 5.04 OVERTIME AND CALL-OUTS (For Pacific Bell  
Home Entertainment, see Appendix B,  
Section B2.05)  
A. The provisions of this Section apply to all employees unless otherwise  
specified. Refer to Appendix A for additional overtime and premium  
payments provisions.  
B. Overtime is that time worked in excess of the daily work period of  
eight (8) hours for five (5) day a week employees or ten (10) hours for  
four (4) day a week employees continuing until relieved from duty,  
and/or in excess of the normal workweek or its equivalent (overtime  
is time, not money).  
C. Premium payments are payments in excess of the basic rate of pay  
(premium payments are money, not time). The premium rates of pay  
are one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’, two (2) hours’ and two and one-  
64  
half (2-1/2) hours’ pay for one (1) hour worked. Not more than one (1)  
premium payment shall be paid for any one (1) hour worked.  
For employees having titles listed in Appendix A, Sections A1.01,  
A2.01 and A4.01, time worked in excess of the daily work period of  
eight (8) hours and/or in excess of the normal workweek of forty (40)  
hours (or its equivalent for employees identified in the following Para-  
graph) shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay  
for each hour worked.  
For employees having titles listed in Appendix A, Section A3.01, time  
worked on weekdays in excess of a full tour of duty (eight hours for  
an 8-hour tour, seven and one-half hours for a 7-1/2 hour tour, seven  
hours for a 7-hour tour, or six hours for a 6-hour tour) shall be paid for  
at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked.  
Time paid for but not worked on a holiday which falls Monday  
through Friday in the calendar week, and time paid for but not worked  
on Personal Days Off shall be included when determining time worked  
in excess of the normal workweek (or its equivalent for employees  
identified in the Paragraph directly above). The following time shall  
be excluded when determining time worked in excess of the normal  
workweek or its equivalent:  
1. Time paid for but not worked, except holiday pay and Personal  
Days Off as provided in Section 5.04E and time which is  
considered as time worked as provided in Section 3.02B3.  
2. Time worked beyond eight (8) hours on any day for employees  
scheduled five (5) days per week or time worked beyond ten  
(10) hours on any day for employees scheduled four (4) days per  
week.  
3. Time worked on weekdays in connection with calls outside of a  
scheduled tour/shift, or if not scheduled, a regular tour/shift,  
provided that such time is not in lieu of a scheduled tour/shift and  
is paid for at a premium rate.  
Time worked on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-  
half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked. Sunday tours/shifts are  
tours/shifts starting on Sunday.  
Employees who are notified less than three (3) hours before the start  
of their tour/shift that their immediate services are required shall be  
paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) from time of notification  
65  
   
to the start of the tour/shift, if all or part of this period is worked, and  
shall be paid at the straight-time rate for that part, or all, of their  
tour/shift worked thereafter. The minimum time paid for shall be two  
(2) hours.  
Employees who are notified three (3) hours or more before the start of  
their tour/shift that their immediate services are required and whose  
work continues into the tour/shift shall be paid at the rate of one and  
one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked from time of notifi-  
cation until the employee is relieved from duty, except as provided  
below. Meal period intermission shall not constitute a relief from duty.  
NOTE: Employees covered by Appendix A, Sections A1.01 and  
A2.01 who report to work three (3) hours before the start of  
their tour/shift when immediate services are not required,  
will receive pay treatment as provided in Appendix A,  
Sections Al.05B, and A2.03A.  
If a call-out as specified in Section 5.04H above results in an employee  
working eight (8) hours at one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each  
hour worked, such time may be considered in lieu of a regular  
tour/shift, and, at management’s discretion, the employee may be  
relieved from duty.  
When employees are called for work which requires their immediate  
services, work time starts from time of notification. The minimum  
time paid for shall be two (2) hours and shall be paid for at the rates  
applicable (premium, holiday, straight-time, etc.). Normal traveling  
time to home will be included except when:  
1. The employee continues working to the end of a scheduled  
tour/shift or half-tour/shift or  
2. The employee requests, and is granted, excused time off with or  
without pay.  
When employees are notified that their immediate services are  
required on other than a scheduled work day, they shall be paid at the  
rates applicable (premium, holiday, straight-time, etc.) for a minimum  
period of two (2) hours including travel time from and to home.  
When an employee is assigned to work of less than four (4) hours’  
duration when the employee’s immediate services are not required,  
travel time from and to home shall be considered work time. The  
minimum time paid for shall be two (2) hours including travel time.  
66  
M.  
N.  
The maximum time paid for, including travel time, shall be four (4)  
hours. When such employee works four (4) hours or more, excluding  
travel time, such travel time shall not be considered work time, and  
shall not be paid for.  
All hours worked in excess of forty-nine (49) in the calendar week  
shall be paid at the rate of two (2) hours’ pay for each hour worked.  
1. Time included when calculating time worked toward the forty-  
nine (49) rule:  
a. All time worked.  
b. Time paid for but not worked on Holidays and paid Personal  
Days Off.  
c. Paid time off to vote.  
Paid time off (UP) spent by Union representatives attending  
meetings with management.  
For pay treatment on holidays, see Article 6 of this Contract.  
No wage payments shall be made for specified meal periods taken  
outside of scheduled hours.  
### Section 5.05 EXPENSE ALLOWANCE  
A.  
### PER DIEM ALLOWANCE AND LODGING  
1. When an employee is temporarily assigned to a work location  
other than the employee’s assigned headquarters and, as deter-  
mined by the Companies, daily travel by the employee would be  
impractical, the Companies may establish a temporary head-  
quarters at a place where suitable board and lodging may be  
obtained or provided, in which case the employee shall be eligi-  
ble to receive an allowance of thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per  
diem and lodging at the Companies’ expense.  
2. An employee entitled to receive the per diem allowance and  
lodging at the Companies’ expense under Section 5.05A1 may,  
upon proper management approval and in lieu of the per diem  
allowance and lodging at the Companies’ expense, be granted  
home board and lodging allowance at the rate of thirty-five dol-  
lars ($35.00) per day when the nature of the work will permit and  
the employee establishes a bona fide home at the location of the  
work. When such home board and lodging is authorized, it shall  
67  
   
also be paid for periods not worked on Sundays, holidays, days  
absent due to weather conditions and other authorized absence  
not including vacations.  
An employee entitled to receive the per diem allowance and  
lodging at the Companies’ expense under Section 5.05A1 may,  
upon proper management approval, be granted an allowance at  
the rate of thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per day for each day  
worked in lieu of the per diem allowance and lodging at the  
Companies’ expense when the location of the work permits travel  
on the employee’s own time and expense, between the  
employee’s bona fide home and the location of the job. In such  
cases, the thirty-five dollar ($35.00) allowance will only be paid  
for the days actually worked.  
On personal trips over weekends and holidays, an employee who  
is being provided the per diem allowance and lodging at the  
expense of the Companies may, upon proper approval and in the  
event Company transportation is not available, be granted the  
lesser of the following two allowances, but in no case shall pay-  
ment be made for travel time:  
a. Anallowance equivalent to commercial transportation costs  
to the appropriate, as determined by the Companies, com-  
mercial transportation terminal at the employee’s home  
location and return. In addition, the employee will be paid  
the mileage allowance at the agreed upon rate for use of an  
employee’s personal vehicle on Company business for the  
distance between the work location and the commercial  
transportation terminal at the temporary work location and  
return and for the distance from the commercial transporta-  
tion terminal at the employee’s home location to the  
employee’s home and return, or  
b. The actual savings to the Companies due to the employee’s  
absence from the established boarding place.  
The establishment or discontinuance of a temporary headquarters  
as provided for in Section 5.05A1 shall not be considered as a  
change in an employee’s regularly assigned headquarters as  
defined in Appendix A, Sections A1.04E, A2.04 and A4.04C.  
68  
### OCCASIONAL MEALS  
Employees shall be granted meal allowances only in accordance with  
the following:  
L.  
Nine dollars ($9.00) when a full-time employee works two (2) or  
more consecutive hours in addition to working his or her regular  
tour/shift or a part-time employee works two (2) or more hours  
in addition to working the equivalent of a full-time tour/shift.  
An additional nine dollars ($9.00) will be paid when a full-time  
employee works six (6) or more consecutive hours in addition to  
working his or her regular tour/shift or a part-time employee  
works six (6) or more consecutive hours in addition to working  
the equivalent of a full-time tour/shift.  
Meals for which an allowance is granted under this Section shall  
be eaten on the employee’s own time, except where the supervi-  
sor determines that the employee cannot be released for a definite  
meal period. In such case, the employee shall be granted a  
reasonable amount of time to eat on Company time.  
There shall be no allowance granted for noonday luncheon  
expense.  
A meal allowance will not be paid to an employee receiving per  
diem or an allowance in lieu of per diem.  
### TRANSPORTATION  
1.  
The Companies will either furnish all means of transportation or  
specify what transportation shall be used for Company business  
and advance or refund the necessary fares.  
Local carfare or mileage, as determined by the Companies, to and  
from work in excess of that required by an employee for the  
employee’s normal assignment, will be refunded. Travel time  
will be computed on the same basis except as provided for in  
Section 5.05A3.  
When local carfare during working hours is deemed necessary by  
the Companies, such carfare will be advanced or refunded to  
employees. Carfare in excess of the local fare will be advanced.  
A personal automobile may be used for Company business or to  
facilitate transportation provided that:  
69  
   
a. Such use is authorized by a supervisor.  
The employee agrees to such use of the employee’s personal  
automobile.  
c. Such usage shall be reimbursed at the Internal Revenue  
Service (IRS) reimbursement rate for mileage. In the event  
the IRS increases the re1mbursement rate for mileage, the  
Company will adjust the mileage reimbursement rate to the  
maximum allowable rate as soon as practical, not to exceed  
sixty (60) days from the effective date of the increase.  
Section 5.06 STANDBY PAY (For Pacific Bell  
Home Entertainment, see Appendix B,  
Section B2.05C)  
### A. DEFINITION AND APPLICATION  
1.  
2.  
Standby is that time during which an off duty employee is  
scheduled to be available for call-outs.  
Part-time employees are not eligible for Standby pay.  
### B. ASSIGNMENT AND EMPLOYEE REQUIREMENTS  
1.  
The Companies will determine the need to establish Standby in  
a work group.  
The Companies will seek volunteers from the work group who  
are qualified as recorded on the overtime list and may assign one  
(1) or more volunteers within each work group. The Companies  
will rotate the designated Standby assignments among qualified  
employees.  
Scheduled Standby assignments will be posted at least one (1)  
week in advance. Assignments will include the Standby hours  
and days. No changes in the scheduled Standby assignments will  
be made without at least forty-eight (48) hours notification.  
Employees may be assigned for periods of duty as determined by  
local management and local union. If no mutual agreement can  
be reached, the Companies will determine the length of Standby  
assignment, not to exceed one (1) week.  
The employees assigned Standby will be available after normal  
hours or on non-scheduled days to report within one (1) hour to  
70  
10.  
a call-out from the duty supervisor and will be available for con-  
tact via telephone or pager at all times during the period of duty.  
Assigned Standby employees who cannot be reached or who fail  
to respond to a pager, or other agreed upon method of commu-  
nication, within a fifteen (15) minute time period, will not be eli-  
gible to receive payment for the period of Standby coverage.  
If, during a Standby period, an employee becomes ill, or for  
some other reason cannot perform the scheduled Standby duty,  
the employee is responsible for notification of management as  
soon as possible. The employee will not receive Standby pay for  
that period.  
The Companies will follow the established overtime call-out pro-  
cedures when the scheduled Standby employee is not available  
for a call-out or when a special requirement to satisfy a customer  
need exists.  
Employees who transfer or return into the work group or any  
employee who subsequently wants to be added into the Standby  
group, upon notification to the supervisor, will be placed at the  
bottom of the list and be eligible for normal rotation assignment  
effective with the next posted Standby schedule.  
Employees who desire to be removed from the Standby volun-  
teers list shall give written notice fourteen (14) days prior to  
being removed from the list.  
### COMPENSATION  
1.  
In addition to normal compensation for time worked during non-  
scheduled hours as a result of a call-out, those employees on  
Standby will receive a payment equal to one and one-half (1-1/2)  
hours pay at the regular hourly rate for each day on Standby.  
Time spent on Standby, exclusive of call-outs, will not be con-  
sidered hours worked, and pay received for Standby will be  
excluded from the regular rate of pay for purposes of calculating  
overtime.  
Standby pay amounts will not enter into computations of any  
payments under the Pacific Telesis Group Plan for Pensions, Dis-  
ability Benefits, Savings and Death Benefits or any other benefits  
or differentials.  
71  
   
### Section 5.07 PLAN FOR EMPLOYEES’ PENSIONS,  
A.  
### DISABILITY BENEFITS AND DEATH BENEFITS  
In the event, during the life of this Contract, the Companies desire to  
make a change in the Pacific Telesis Group Plans for Employees’ Pen-  
sions, Disability Benefits and Death Benefits which would affect the  
pensions, disability benefits and death benefits of employees within the  
bargaining units, they will, before making a change, notify the Union  
and afford the Union a period of sixty (60) calendar days for bargain-  
ing, provided, however, that no change may be made in the Plans  
which would reduce or diminish the pensions, disability benefits and  
death benefits provided thereunder, as they may apply to employees  
within the bargaining units, without consent of the Union.  
Any claim that Section 5.07A of this Article has been violated may be  
presented as a grievance and, if not resolved by the parties under their  
Problem Resolution Procedures, may be submitted to arbitration pur-  
suant to the provisions of Article 7, but in such case any decision or  
action of the Companies shall be controlling unless shown to have  
been discriminatory or in bad faith, and only the question of discrim-  
ination or bad faith shall be subject to the grievance procedure and  
arbitration. However, nothing in this Contract shall be construed to  
subject the Plan or its administration to arbitration.  
72  
### ARTICLE 6  
### TIME OFF  
Section 6.01 Time off the job is essential for the well being of employ-  
ees. A proper balance of work and time off contributes to increased  
productivity, creativity and job satisfaction. Certain civic and personal obli-  
gations dictate that employees be granted time off. To assure that business  
needs are met, planned time off is scheduled.  
Section 6.02 VACATION  
A. Vacation will be granted each vacation year to eligible employees in  
proportion to years of service. For the vacation year 2002 and subse-  
quent vacation years, change the definition of the “vacation year”  
from the calendar year to December 31 of the current year through  
December 30 of the following year.  
1. Vacations are granted each vacation year to Regular and Term,  
full-time or part-time, employees and Temporary employees  
hired prior to January 1, 1993 during their term of employment  
that began prior to January 1, 1993, as follows:  
### NET CREDITED SERVICE VACATION TIME  
After 6 months 1 Week  
After 1 year (See Note 1) 2 Weeks  
2 years, but less than 7 years (See Note 2) 2 Weeks  
7 years, but less than 15 years (See Note 2) 3 Weeks  
15 years, but less than 25 years (See Note 2) 4 Weeks  
25 years or more (See Note 2) 5 Weeks  
Notes: 1. Employees who complete both six (6) months and one (1)  
year of service within the same vacation year are entitled to  
two (2) weeks of vacation. The second week will be taken  
after the first anniversary.  
2. Vacations may be scheduled anytime during the vacation  
year in which the anniversary occurs.  
73  
   
2. Employees who are hired or rehired into the Temporary classifi-  
cation on or after January 1, 1993, are eligible to one week of  
vacation after completing six (6) months of service.  
### VACATION PAY — DETERMINATION OF STATUS  
Employees will receive vacation pay as a full-time or part-time  
employee according to their employment status during the last sched-  
uled week immediately preceding the first day of a vacation week.  
### VACATION PAY — FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES  
Full-time employees will be paid their basic weekly wage rate for each  
full week of vacation. Pay for individual vacation days will be one-  
fifth (1/5) of the weekly rate.  
### VACATION PAY — PART-TIME EMPLOYEES WHO ARE  
### “GRANDFATHERED” AS DESCRIBED IN SECTION 4.03A1 (AS  
OF JANUARY 1, 1993)  
1. Part-time employees will be paid for full weeks of vacation by  
averaging all hours during the preceding quarter. This averaging  
includes:  
a. Hours worked up to a maximum of eight (8) a day or forty  
(40) a week; and  
b. Hours scheduled or assigned to be worked but excused, paid  
or unpaid.  
c. The total of a & b above will be limited to a maximum of  
eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.  
2. Part-time employees will be paid for individual vacation days off  
equivalent to one-fifth (1/5) of the average workweek as calcu-  
lated above.  
### VACATION PAY — AS OF JANUARY 1, 1993 FOR PART-TIME  
### EMPLOYEES WHO ARE NOT “GRANDFATHERED” (AS  
### DESCRIBED IN SECTION 4.03A2)  
1. Payment for full weeks of vacation will be an allowance equal to  
the employee’s average workweek, as defined in Section 4.03A2b  
or 4.03A2c as applicable, spread over the five day vacation week.  
2. Payment for individual vacation days will be an allowance equal  
to one-fifth (1/5) of the employee’s average workweek as defined  
in Section 4.03A2b or 4.03A2c as applicable. Payment will only  
74  
be made if the individual vacation day is scheduled on a day  
when the employee would normally be scheduled to work.  
See Section 6.04D for pay treatment of employees who are temporar-  
ily shift-changed for vacation relief.  
An employee who is absent for more than six (6) consecutive months  
due to leave of absence or layoff will be eligible for vacation in any  
subsequent vacation year after returning to work and completing six  
(6) consecutive months of service.  
When the Companies deem it necessary, the Companies may, in sen-  
iority order, offer employees with scheduled vacation on the posted  
work schedule the opportunity to sell a full week(s) or individual  
vacation day(s) of his/her vacation back to the Companies.  
NOTE: The offer of pay in lieu of vacation shall be effective only if  
agreed to by the employee. The employee will receive pay-  
ment for the vacation time sold back to the Companies with  
the employee’s next regular paycheck for the pay period in  
which the vacation time was originally scheduled. A vacancy  
or open slot on the vacation schedule will not be created  
when an employee elects to sell his/her vacation under the  
circumstances described above.  
Section 6.03 HOLIDAYS  
Eight holidays will be observed.  
A.  
### THE AUTHORIZED HOLIDAYS ARE:  
New Year’s Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day,  
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after Thanksgiving and  
Christmas Day.  
NOTE: Holiday tours are tours of duty starting on a holiday. Holidays  
falling on Sunday will be observed on the following Monday.  
Holiday practices will apply.  
When a holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation week, the  
employee will receive an additional Personal Day Off at a later time.  
### CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S EVE SPECIAL PAYMENTS  
Employees in Operator Services with titles of Central Office Associ-  
ate, Operator, Service Assistant and Services Specialist will receive:  
79  
   
A special payment of six ($6.00) dollars for employees whose  
work terminates at or after 6:00 P.M. and not later than 7:59 P.M.  
on Christmas Eve and/or New Year’s Eve.  
A special payment of eight ($8.00) dollars for employees whose  
work terminates at or after 8:00 P.M. on Christmas Eve and/or  
New Year’s Eve.  
### ASSIGNMENT OF HOLIDAY WORK  
For employees in Operator Services with titles of Central Office Asso-  
ciate, Operator, Service Assistant and Service Assistant-Bilingual:  
1.  
All work on holidays will be distributed among employees of an  
office by allowing them, on a rotational basis, to choose whether  
to work or not to work, except that the Companies may require  
the employees to work as they deem necessary to meet the needs  
of the service.  
It will be the practice to allow trades between employees of  
assignments to work or not to work provided the trades are  
approved by management. The trades are limited to assignments  
for any one holiday.  
### PAY FOR HOLIDAYS NOT WORKED  
iP  
If employees work all of their scheduled tour immediately before  
and after the holiday, or are excused by supervision, they will be  
paid as follows:  
a. Full-time employees will be paid one-fifth (1/5) of their  
basic weekly wage rate.  
b. Part-time employees who are “grandfathered” will be paid  
one-fifth (1/5) of their average or equivalent workweek as  
covered in Section 6.02D.  
c. All other part-time employees will be paid one-fifth (1/5) of  
their average workweek as defined in Section 4.03A2.  
An employee who is scheduled to work on a holiday, but fails to  
report for work and is unexcused will not be paid for the holiday.  
An employee who is scheduled to work on a holiday, but is  
excused will be paid straight time for the holiday.  
No pay will be given for holidays which occur:  
76  
a. During a leave of absence in excess of one (1) week, includ-  
ing holidays that occur during the first week of the leave.  
b. During a period of excused time off for Union activities in  
excess of one week, including holidays that occur during the  
first week of the absence.  
c. After the seventh (7th) calendar day of other absences.  
### F. PAY FOR HOLIDAYS WORKED  
1. Employees will be paid double time and one-half (2-1/2) for  
each hour worked on authorized holidays.  
   
2. Anemployee who is not scheduled to work on a holiday, but who  
works without 48 hours’ notice will be paid straight time for any  
part of their normal tour not worked.  
3. If employees work overtime on a holiday, they will be paid  
double time and one-half (2-1/2). Holiday payment and overtime  
payment will not be made for the same time worked.  
### Section 6.04 PERSONAL DAYS OFF  
Employees are allowed flexibility through the use of Personal Days Off to  
be absent with pay.  
A. Employees are eligible for Personal Days Off each vacation year  
according to the following:  
More Than Six (6) Months’ Service:  
Maximum Number of Personal Days Off  
Paid Unpaid  
Regular Employees 6 |  
Term Employees 6 1  
Temporary Employees 2 1  
Occasional Employees N/A N/A  
NOTE: Part-time employees who are “grandfathered” will be paid for individual  
Personal Days Off equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the average or equivalent  
workweek as covered in Section 6.02D2.  
All other part-time employees will be paid for individual Personal Days Off  
equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the average workweek as defined in Section  
  
7/  
B. All Personal Days Off may be taken in two (2) hour increments and  
will be granted as deemed practicable by management.  
C. If employees agree to work on a paid Personal Day Off they may  
choose one of the following options:  
1.  
Reschedule the Personal Day Off and work as though it were a  
normal scheduled day; or  
Work the day and be guaranteed eight (8) hours’ pay at straight  
time, as well as one and one-half (1 1/2) hours’ pay for each  
hour actually worked. The Personal Day Off may not be  
rescheduled if the employee chooses this option.  
### D. PERSONAL DAY OFF, JURY DUTY AND VACATION RELIEF  
When an employee in other than Operator Services has a regular shift  
(not tour) temporarily changed for vacation, jury duty or Personal  
Day Off relief, the employee will be paid as follows:  
1.  
An employee who is receiving a shift differential and who is  
temporarily assigned to a day shift will retain the differential but  
be paid at straight time.  
An employee temporarily assigned to an evening or night shift  
will receive the appropriate shift differential, and be paid at  
straight time.  
### Section 6.05 CIVIC AND PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS  
The Companies will continue to provide time away from work to enable  
employees to meet certain civic and personal obligations.  
### A. PAID TIME OFF WILL INCLUDE:  
I,  
Time spent on obligatory jury duty. When jury duty ends a  
reasonable time before the end of scheduled working hours, an  
employee who would be working except for jury duty will return  
to work.  
An employee’s hours of work will be changed to coincide with  
the obligatory jury duty assignment. When an employee’s  
shift/tour is temporarily rescheduled for this purpose, no pre-  
mium will be paid for the shift/tour change. The employee will  
retain his/her shift differential.  
78  
NOTE: See Section 6.04D for proper pay treatment of an  
employee temporarily rescheduled for jury duty relief.  
2. Time off to vote in accordance with, and if required by, the pro-  
visions of applicable State laws.  
3. A period of time which is reasonable and warranted due to a  
death in an employee’s immediate family or household.  
Immediate family includes the employee’s parents, stepparents,  
adoptive parents, children, stepchildren or adopted children,  
brothers or stepbrothers, sisters or stepsisters, husband or wife,  
grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law,  
domestic partner, domestic partner’s children, domestic part-  
ner’s mother, domestic partner’s father, as well as any other  
persons living generally in the same household.  
Unpaid time off will include approved leaves of absence. A leave of  
absence for personal reasons is a privilege which may be granted to  
employees rather than a right to which they are entitled. Granting a  
leave of absence for a period of over thirty (30) days does not guar-  
antee the employee will be given a position when the leave expires  
unless agreed to in writing at the time the leave is granted.  
### Section 6.06 PLANNED TIME OFF  
The scheduling of planned time off will be in seniority order within indi-  
vidual work groups. It is the intent of the parties that employees’ selections  
will be granted to the extent practicable consistent with force requirements  
and the needs of the service.  
A.  
Scheduling of planned time off will be administered by seniority as  
follows:  
1. Vacation — full week  
2.  Vacation/Personal Day Off — day-at-a-time  
3. Personal Day Off — two (2) hour increments  
Vacation schedules will be prepared by the Companies for each occu-  
pational and administrative unit except as provided in Section 6.06B1.  
The selection of vacation dates within each schedule will be on the  
basis of net credited service as shown by the records of the Companies,  
except as provided elsewhere in this Section or unless otherwise  
agreed to.  
79  
   
1. Prior to the preparation of vacation schedules for any vacation  
year, the district level representative of the Companies will meet  
with the President and his or her designated representative of the  
Union Local involved to discuss the appropriate employee  
groups, comprising the employees within the district level’s juris-  
diction, for which such schedules shall be prepared. In the event  
of failure to reach agreement, final determination of the appro-  
priate employee groups shall be made by the Department Head  
or the Department Head’s authorized representative.  
2. Each employee in the bargaining unit defined in Appendix A,  
Section A2.01, except Operations Administrator, Data Adminis-  
trator, Nevada employees and in other bargaining units as agreed  
to by the parties, will have a first choice before anyone who  
splits their vacation makes a second choice. Employees detailed  
to work away from headquarters will at their request be returned  
to their headquarters at the Companies’ expense for one vacation  
period only, during each vacation year.  
3. An employee transferred at management direction will retain  
any vacation period(s) previously scheduled and approved.  
4. When an employee-initiated transfer occurs, management will  
endeavor to accommodate previously scheduled vacation periods  
within the vacation schedule of the employee’s new work group,  
due regard being given to the needs of the service and the indi-  
vidual circumstances of each case.  
Vacation relief assignments for employees listed in Appendix A, Sec-  
tions A1.01, A2.01 and Appendix B, will be posted at the time work  
schedules are posted. This procedure will not apply to relief assign-  
ments for day-at-a-time vacations.  
Prior to the beginning of the vacation year, management will canvass  
the work group to allow the employees to select vacation and Personal  
Days off from available dates. The period during which vacation and  
Personal Days Off can be chosen by seniority rights will cover the 15  
months from December 31st of the current year through March of the  
subsequent vacation year.  
Requests to reschedule Personal Days Off will be made with normally  
not less than 48 hours’ notice. The rescheduling is subject to manage-  
ment approval.  
80  
Requests for a Personal Day Off in two (2) hour increments may be  
requested by the employee, as needed, and will be granted to the  
extent practicable consistent with force requirements and needs of the  
service.  
It is recommended that all employees take at least 10 days off (vaca-  
tion/Personal Days Off) in the vacation year earned for the sake of  
their well being.  
No work will be scheduled on a vacation day or Personal Day Off. A  
vacation week is a calendar week, Sunday through Saturday. When an  
employee’s vacation period spans a full week, no work will be sched-  
uled the Saturday prior to, or Sunday following, the vacation week.  
All vacation may be taken in increments of less than a full week.  
A vacation week of the new year may begin on Sunday of the same  
week in which December 31 falls on or before Wednesday.  
Vacation weeks and Personal Days Off carried over from the previous  
vacation year through March 31 of the subsequent vacation year have  
precedence over selection of current year Time Off only in the first  
three (3) months of the vacation year. Any Time Off carried over from  
one vacation year to the next and not taken by the last day of March  
will be secondary in terms of scheduling to the selection of time off for  
the current vacation year.  
Payment will be made in lieu of all vacation and Personal Days Off  
carried over from the previous vacation year which are not taken by  
December 30 of the following vacation year.  
The Companies will not pay any expenses including per diem and  
lodging incurred by employees when they take individual vacation  
days or Personal Days Off while working at a non-commutable tem-  
porary work location.  
When employees return to work from sickness or accident disability,  
and they have not taken all vacation and/or Personal Days Off for  
which eligible for the vacation year, they may take whatever can be  
accommodated within the remainder of the current vacation year  
through the end of the next vacation year. Time off carried over from  
the previous vacation year, and taken during the first quarter of the  
next vacation year under this provision will take precedence over  
vacation selection for the current vacation year, but will be secondary  
to vacation carried over under the provisions of Section 6.06K.  
81  
   
Employees going on a leave of absence may receive pay in lieu of  
vacation they are eligible to receive or take the vacation upon their  
return. Should the employee return during the same 24 month period  
in which time off can be taken, he or she will receive whatever vaca-  
tion and Personal Days Off that can be accommodated during the  
remainder of the period. Payment will be made in lieu of any time off  
not used.  
Individuals leaving the employ of the Company shall receive payment  
in lieu of vacation and Personal Days Off to which they are eligible  
provided they have worked during the vacation year and have not had  
all of the vacation and Personal Days Off to which they are eligible  
during such period. This includes pro-rata payment of earned vacation  
for those employees who terminate with less than one year of service.  
For purposes of tracking or making payment in lieu of vacation or  
Personal Days Off, all time off earned in the previous vacation year  
must be taken before any time off for the current vacation year can be  
taken. For scheduling purposes, all other Paragraphs in this Section,  
6.06, shall apply.  
82  
### ARTICLE 7  
### PROBLEM RESOLUTION PROCEDURES  
Section 7.01 The Companies and the Union agree that timely interac-  
tion on issues can eliminate the cause for most grievances. While manage-  
ment maintains the right and responsibility to make decisions which affect  
the business, the parties will endeavor to jointly evaluate and plan proposed  
actions that affect the employees, the Union and the Companies.  
### Section 7.02 REQUEST FOR UNION REPRESENTATION  
The Companies shall release the appropriate Union representatives who are  
required by the Problem Resolution Procedures.  
A. At any meeting between a management representative and an  
employee in which a formal level of discipline is to be announced, or  
an investigatory interview where the employee may have a reasonable  
basis to expect that disciplinary action may result, a Union represen-  
tative shall be present, if the employee requests.  
1. The employee shall be informed of the subject of the meeting at  
any formal level of discipline or investigatory interview prior to  
the meeting.  
2. The Union representative and the employee shall be allowed a  
reasonable period of time to consult prior to the meeting, if  
requested.  
### Section 7.03 COMMUNICATION AND PROBLEM SOLVING  
We must initiate communication to prevent problems as most problems can  
be prevented through timely, open and honest communication.  
A. When operational changes are being considered in a work area that  
will significantly affect the working conditions of one or more employ-  
ees, the manager will communicate these anticipated changes and the  
reasons for them to the appropriate Union representative and solicit  
any input to improve the effectiveness for all concerned. This com-  
munication will generally occur not less than ten (10) calendar days in  
advance of the effective date of such anticipated changes. In matters  
requiring immediate implementation, the minimum time frame shall  
not apply. In these cases, communication and solicitation for input  
from the Union will be conducted at the earliest practical opportunity.  
83  
|  
  
iw}  
=  
a  
=~  
   
Subsequently, where agreement is reached, communication to the  
employees will be conducted jointly by the manager and the Union  
representative. In all cases, communication to the affected employees  
will not occur prior to a discussion with the appropriate Union  
representative.  
B. When is trending toward disciplinary action for job per-  
formance, for example attendance, quality, quantity, etc., manage-  
ment will normally involve the Union and solicit its input and  
assistance. The manager and the Union representative will work  
jointly to identify and eliminate the cause of the employee’s problem  
to prevent it from recurring.  
C. Union representative identifies an issue or dispute in the work  
area, he or she will interact with the appropriate manager in the work  
area. An effort should be made by both parties to resolve the problem.  
### Section 7.04 UNION PRESENTATION  
The grievance procedure is designed to provide a timely, energy effective  
way of insuring equality and fairness in resolving disputes which have not  
been resolved through informal efforts. The Companies and the Union  
agree that it is their objective to resolve all grievances at the lowest level.  
The presentation of a grievance must be made in writing as described in  
Section 7.05Cla and in accordance with the time limitations specified  
below to be eligible for handling under the provisions of Sections 7.05 and  
7.09:  
A. Grievances concerning the impact of new, changed or deleted meth-  
ods and/or procedures intended for department-wide application must  
be presented within sixty (60) calendar days of the date of the Com-  
panies’ notification to the Union of their intent to take such action or,  
within thirty (30) calendar days from the occurrence that an employee  
is affected by the change, whichever date is later.  
B. All other grievances must be presented within thirty (30) calendar  
days from the first occurrence of the action or within thirty (30)  
calendar days from the date of discovery.  
### Section 7.05 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
In keeping with the Companies’ and the Union’s objective to resolve all  
grievances at the lowest level, an employee may present his or her  
84  
grievance to a Union representative who will process it according to the  
following:  
A.  
A grievance involving the dismissal of any Regular or Term employee  
or a grievance involving disciplinary action other than dismissal of any  
employee will be presented as follows:  
1.  
Step I— To the employee’s immediate supervisor or, if appropri-  
ate, the manager who took the action. Two (2) paid Union repre-  
sentatives designated by the Local may attend this meeting. If the  
grievance is not resolved, it will be referred to:  
Step II — District Level Manager (or equivalent title/skip level  
organizations). Three (3) paid Union representatives designated  
by the Local may attend this meeting to attempt to resolve the  
grievance. Only grievances involving the dismissal of a Regular  
or Term employee, which are not resolved, will be referred to  
Step III.  
NOTE: The Step II meeting regarding any grievance may be  
omitted by mutual agreement.  
Step III — (Dismissal grievances only) Department AVP (or  
equivalent title/skip level organizations) and Local President or  
either of their designated representatives. Two (2) paid Union  
representatives designated by the Local may attend this meeting  
to attempt to resolve the grievance.  
NOTE: If the Step II meeting regarding the dismissal of a  
Regular or Term employee has been omitted, a maxi-  
mum of three (3) paid Union representatives designated  
by the Local may attend the Step III meeting.  
A grievance involving matters other than discipline will be presented  
as follows:  
1. Step I— To the manager who approved the action. Two (2) paid  
Union representatives designated by the Local may attend this  
meeting. If the grievance is not resolved, it will be referred to:  
Step II — The next level of management above the manager who  
heard the grievance at Step I (no lower than District Level or  
higher than Department Vice President or equivalent title/skip  
level organizations) and Local President or either of their desig-  
nated representatives. Three (3) paid Union representatives  
85  
|  
  
iw}  
=  
a  
=~  
   
designated by the Local may attend this meeting to attempt to  
resolve the grievance.  
C. Step I Grievances will be processed according to the following  
method:  
1. Prior to the Step I Meeting  
a.  
The Union’s written presentation of the grievance to man-  
agement will include the nature of the grievance; the date of  
the occurrence; the contractual article/section alleged to  
have been violated, if applicable, or if not applicable, the  
source of the alleged violation (e.g., MOA name or number,  
discipline, documentation); the name of the grievant; and  
the remedy sought. Presentation must be made in accor-  
dance with the time limits stated in Section 7.04.  
Management will provide the Union with any information  
and/or reasons used as a basis for the grieved action no later  
than ten (10) calendar days following presentation of the  
grievance. This requirement to share information and/or  
reasons for the grieved action applies whether or not a Step  
I meeting is held.  
2. Holding the Step I Meeting  
a.  
b.  
Management will hold the meeting within fifteen (15)  
calendar days following presentation of a grievance.  
Both parties should make every effort to ensure that a Step  
I meeting is held. However, in those circumstances where a  
Step I meeting is not held within fifteen (15) calendar days,  
as stated in Section 7.05C2a and no mutual agreement to  
extend the time limit is reached, or where there is mutual  
agreement to omit the Step I meeting, the grievance shall be  
considered denied by management and will then be  
escalated to Step II of the Grievance Procedure.  
NOTE: If the Step I meeting is not held, management is  
required to provide the information specified in  
Section 7.05C1b.  
3. Following the Step I Meeting  
a.  
Management will inform the Union of the Company’s posi-  
tion and rationale at the conclusion of the Step I meeting.  
86  
D. Step II grievances will be processed according to the following  
method:  
1. Prior to the Step II Meeting  
a. The Union will notify the Company in writing of its intent  
to escalate the grievance to Step I within thirty (30) calen-  
dar days following the Step I meeting, or the date when the  
Step I meeting should have been held as stated in Section  
7.05C2a.  
b. The Union’s failure to notify the Company, of its intent to  
escalate the grievance, within the time limit stated in Section  
7.05D 1a, will result in the grievance being considered with-  
drawn from the Grievance Procedure.  
|  
  
iw}  
=  
a  
=~  
   
2. Holding the Step II Meeting  
a. Management will hold the Step II grievance meeting within  
thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the Union’s written  
intent to escalate the grievance.  
b. Failure to hold the Step II meeting within the time limit  
stated in Section 7.05D2a, or when no mutual agreement to  
extend the date has been reached, will result in the grievance  
being deemed as settled in favor of the Union. However, the  
settlement cannot exceed what an arbitrator would have  
awarded under Sections 7.12 and 7.14.  
3. Following the Step I Meeting  
a. Management will send the Step II Company position to the  
Union and the appropriate Labor Relations Director, in  
accordance with Section 7.07, at the final disposition of the  
Step II meeting for grievances involving issues other than  
dismissal.  
b. Management will inform the Union of the Company’s posi-  
tion and rationale at the conclusion of all Step II meetings  
involving dismissal grievances.  
E. Step HI grievances (DISMISSAL GRIEVANCES ONLY) will be  
processed according to the following method:  
1. Prior to the Step IT Meeting  
87  
a. The Union will notify the Company in writing of its intent  
to escalate the grievance to Step II within thirty (30) cal-  
endar days following the final disposition of the Step I  
meeting or the date it was mutually agreed to omit the  
Step II meeting.  
b. The Union’s failure to notify the Company of its intent to  
escalate the grievance, within the time limits stated in Sec-  
tion 7.05Ela, will result in the grievance being considered  
withdrawn from the Grievance Procedure.  
2. Holding the Step III Meeting  
a. Management will hold the Step III grievance meeting within  
thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the Union’s written  
intent to escalate the grievance.  
b. Failure to hold the Step HI meeting within the time limit  
stated in Section 7.05E2a or when no mutual agreement to  
extend the date has been reached, will result in the grievance  
being deemed as settled in favor of the Union. However, the  
settlement cannot exceed what an arbitrator would have  
awarded under Sections 7.12 and 7.14.  
3. Following the Step II Meeting  
Management will send the Step III Company position to the  
Union and the appropriate Labor Relations Director in accor-  
dance with Section 7.07.  
Pending final settlement of the grievance, the Companies shall not  
thereafter deal directly with the employee concerning said grievance  
without Union concurrence, but shall deal directly with the Union  
representative.  
### Section 7.06 SHARING INFORMATION  
A.  
During the Step I meeting, the Companies and the Union will identify  
appropriate areas of concern. During Step I and Step II meetings, the  
Companies and the Union will share facts deemed relevant to the  
grievance by either party.  
Disputes over relevancy of information and photocopies will be  
resolved as follows:  
88  
1. The request should be presented in writing to the manager. If the  
dispute is not resolved at this level within seven (7) calendar  
days, it shall be referred to:  
2. The Local Union Officer and District Manager level. If not  
resolved at this level within seven (7) calendar days, it shall be  
referred to:  
3. The National Union Representative and Labor Relations Direc-  
tor level. If not resolved at this level within seven (7) calendar  
days, the Union may elect to:  
4. Arbitrate the issue under the provision of Section 7.10.  
C. The Companies reserve the right to charge the Union for the cost of the  
photocopies including the wages of the operator of the copying equip-  
ment in the event the volume of requests become substantial.  
### Section 7.07 COMPANY POSITION  
The Step II or Step III Company position (as described in 7.05D3 and  
7.05E3) shall be sent by certified mail to the National and Local Union in  
writing within five (5) calendar days of the final Step II or Step III griev-  
ance meeting. A copy will also be sent to the appropriate Labor Relations  
Director.  
### Section 7.08 UNRESOLVED UNION PRESENTED  
### GRIEVANCES  
Any grievance not resolved under Subsections 7.05A and 7.05B may be  
taken to arbitration under the provisions of Sections 7.10 or 7.15.  
### Section 7.09 EMPLOYEE PRESENTATION  
A. An employee may present his or her grievance to the employee’s  
immediate supervisor within thirty (30) calendar days from the first  
occurrence, and to other successive levels of management up to and  
including the Department Manager (or authorized representative) as  
may be required to resolve the grievance without Union intervention.  
B. The resolution of an employee grievance may not be inconsistent with  
the terms of this Contract. A Union representative will be given an  
opportunity to be present at the resolution of any employee grievance  
concerning the interpretation or application of the terms of this  
Contract.  
89  
|  
  
iw}  
=  
a  
=~  
   
### Section 7.10 ARBITRATION PROCEDURES  
Arbitration cases should be minimal due to effective use of the Problem  
Resolution Procedures. Arbitration should result in timely awards.  
A.  
If the Union is not satisfied with the Companies’ decision at the final  
meeting in the grievance procedure, the Union may request that the  
grievance be arbitrated.  
Any Regular or Term employee dismissed for just cause may have his  
or her case considered under the Arbitration Procedures. However, the  
question as to whether a Regular or Term employee with less than  
twelve (12) months’ net credited service was dismissed without just  
cause will not be eligible for arbitration.  
The National Union will notify the Labor Relations Director, in writ-  
ing, of its desire to meet on the grievance within thirty-five (35) cal-  
endar days of receipt of the Step II or Step III Company position letter  
as described in Section 7.07 above. The meeting between Labor Rela-  
tions and the National Union will be held within fifteen (15) calendar  
days of receipt of the written notice. The National Union may elect to  
waive this meeting and, within the same thirty-five (35) calendar day  
time limit, notify the Companies of its intention to arbitrate the griev-  
ance as specified in 7.10D below. If the Union fails to send either writ-  
ten notice within the time limit stated (35 calendar days), and no  
mutual agreement to extend the time limit has been reached, the  
grievance will be considered withdrawn from the grievance process.  
The Labor Relations Director, or designated representative, will send  
the final Company position letter to the National Union within five (5)  
calendar days of the National Union/Labor Relations meeting. Within  
thirty (30) calendar days following the National Union’s receipt of the  
Companies’ final position letter, as described in this Section 7.10D, the  
Union will notify the Companies in writing of its intention to arbitrate  
the grievance. This notice will specify the issues involved in the griev-  
ance and remedy requested. Specifically it will clarify the Union’s  
original written presentation of the grievance to management. This  
clarification will define the nature of the grievance; the date of the  
occurrence; the contractual article/section alleged to have been vio-  
lated, if applicable, or if not applicable, the source of the alleged  
violation (e.g., MOA name or number, discipline, documentation);  
90  
the name of the grievant; and the remedy sought for the purposes of  
arbitration, expedited arbitration and mediation.  
If the Union does not notify the Companies in writing of its intention  
to arbitrate the grievance within the time limit stated (30 calendar  
days), and no mutual agreement to extend the time limit has been  
reached, the grievance will be considered withdrawn from the griev-  
ance process.  
The first day of the arbitration hearing will be held within six (6)  
months from the date of the Union’s notification in writing of its intent  
to arbitrate the grievance. If the arbitration request involves an  
employee’s dismissal and the six (6) month time limit is exceeded, the  
period used for computation of any back pay liability for the Company  
shall not exceed a date six (6) months from the date of the Union’s  
notification of intent to arbitrate the dismissal issue, except when the  
time limit has been extended by mutual agreement.  
Section 7.11 ARBITRATOR  
A.  
A panel of arbitrators shall be established by the parties for hearing  
expedited and regular arbitration cases. Upon receipt of the Union’s  
intent to arbitrate, each case will be automatically assigned to an avail-  
able arbitrator. The first case so heard under this procedure shall be  
assigned to the arbitrator appearing first on the panel. Subsequent  
arbitration requests shall be assigned to other arbitrators in the order  
of their sequential assignment to the panel. If an arbitrator notifies the  
parties that he or she is unable to accept a case, it will be referred to  
the next arbitrator on the panel.  
Whenever any arbitrator’s pending arbitration requests exceed three,  
additional requests which would otherwise be assigned to him or her  
in the order of rotation shall be referred to the next arbitrator on the  
panel.  
All eligible grievances shall be handled as follows:  
1. Request from the arbitrator, at the time of appointment, two or  
three proposed alternative hearing dates for hearing days within  
six (6) months from the date of the Union’s notification of its  
intent to arbitrate. If the arbitrator cannot provide a hearing date  
within the six (6) month time frame, the parties shall proceed  
through the remaining arbitrators, in order of appearance, until a  
91  
|  
  
iw}  
=  
a  
=~  
   
hearing date can be scheduled in accordance with the time lim-  
its of this Section.  
2. The designated representatives of the Companies and of the  
Union shall promptly agree on a hearing date, secure a firm com-  
mitment on the hearing date from the arbitrator and schedule the  
hearing in accordance with regular procedures.  
3. If the parties can’t agree on a proposed date, then the arbitrator  
shall schedule a hearing date within the six (6) month time frame.  
Grievances involving the suspension of an individual employee or a  
grievance involving the dismissal of a Regular or Term employee  
may be handled in accordance with the Expedited Arbitration provi-  
sions of Section 7.15 by mutual agreement of the Labor Relations  
Director and the designated representative of the National Union,  
except for those which also involve an issue of arbitrability, Contract  
interpretation, or work stoppage (strike) activity and those which are  
also the subject of an administrative charge or court actions.  
### Section 7.12 POWER OF THE ARBITRATOR  
A.  
B.  
The Arbitrator has no authority to add to, subtract from, or otherwise  
modify the provisions of the Contract.  
If the Arbitrator finds that a dismissal was made without just cause, the  
Arbitrator will either:  
1. Reinstate the employee with back pay computed in accordance  
with Section 7.14 as limited by Section 7.10E; or  
2. Reduce the dismissal to a suspension and reinstate the employee  
without back pay for the period of suspension set by the  
Arbitrator as limited by Section 7.10E.  
### Section 7.13. ARBITRATOR’S DECISION  
A.  
Except as provided in Expedited Arbitration, Section 7.15, the Arbi-  
trator will render a decision within thirty (30) calendar days from the  
date the matter is submitted.  
All decisions within the power of the Arbitrator will be final and  
binding on all parties.  
Decisions rendered under the provisions of Expedited Arbitration,  
Section 7.15, will not constitute a precedent for other cases or  
92  
grievances and may not be cited or used as a precedent in other arbi-  
tration matters between the parties.  
### Section 7.14 EFFECT OF RESOLUTION  
A.  
Where employees are reinstated with back pay, the employees will  
receive their regular rate of pay for the time lost, but not for suspen-  
sion time under Section 7.12B2 as limited by Section 7.10E. They will  
also receive reimbursement for any actual expenses incurred and paid  
by the employees during the period of dismissal which would have  
normally been paid by the Companies’ Medical, Dental, or Vision  
Plans. Amounts paid to employees will be reduced by an amount  
equal to the total of the termination or layoff allowance received from  
the Companies at the time of dismissal, and any wages earned in other  
employment. Pacific Bell employees will be liable to the State of Cali-  
fornia, Employment Development Department for overpayment of  
unemployment benefits received since date of dismissal. Nevada Bell  
employees will likewise be liable to the State of Nevada, Employment  
Security Department for such overpayments.  
In the event a grievance is arbitrated under the provisions of Expedited  
Arbitration, Section 7.15, any awarded back pay liability shall be  
computed in accordance with the provisions as expressed in Sections  
7.12B1 and 7.12B2, as limited by Section 7.10E.  
### Section 7.15 EXPEDITED ARBITRATION PROCEDURE  
The procedure for Expedited Arbitration will be as follows:  
A.  
B.  
A written stipulation of all facts not in dispute may be submitted to the  
Arbitrator prior to the hearing.  
The hearing will be informal without rules of evidence and without a  
transcript. However, the Arbitrator will satisfy himself or herself that  
the evidence submitted is of a type on which he or she can rely, that  
the hearing is fair in all respects and that all facts necessary to a fair  
settlement and reasonably obtainable are brought before the Arbitrator.  
Each party may submit a brief written summary of the issues raised at  
the hearing and arguments supporting its position within five (5)  
working days after the hearing.  
93  
|  
  
iw}  
=  
a  
=~  
   
D. The Arbitrator will render his or her decision within five (5) working  
days after receiving the briefs. He or she will provide the parties a brief  
written statement of the reasons supporting the decision.  
### Section 7.16 ARBITRATION EXPENSES  
The compensation and expenses of the Arbitrator and the general expenses  
of the arbitration will be borne by the Companies and the Union in equal  
parts. Each party will bear the expense of its representatives and witnesses.  
Section 7.17 TIME LIMITS  
The time periods specified in the grievance and arbitration procedures will  
be calendar days except for Section 7.15 and may be extended by mutual  
agreement.  
Section 7.18 MEDIATION  
A. A grievance that has been appealed to arbitration in accordance with  
Section 7.10 may be presented at a mediation conference before it is  
scheduled for arbitration, except when either party requests that medi-  
ation be bypassed.  
B. Within six (6) months of the Union’s request for arbitration, the par-  
ties will schedule a mediation conference to be held at the earliest  
available date of a mediator mutually agreeable to both parties. The  
mediation conference will normally be held in either a Company or  
Union facility. Should the availability of a mediator unnecessarily  
delay the processing of the grievance in the opinion of either party,  
either party may request that the mediation step be bypassed and the  
grievance be scheduled for arbitration.  
C. The spokesperson for the Company will normally be a Staff Man-  
ager—Labor Relations. An Area Representative-Communications  
Workers of America will normally represent the Union. An attorney  
will not be used by either party at the mediation conference. The num-  
ber of employees who shall suffer no loss in pay under Article 3,  
Section 3.02 of the Contract shall be no more than two (2). Should  
additional employees be necessary for the complete discovery of facts  
at the conference, the parties will agree in advance on the number of  
additional employees who will attend the conference and suffer no loss  
in pay under Section 3.02.  
94  
The representatives of the parties are encouraged, but not required to  
present the mediator with a brief written statement of the facts, the  
issue and the arguments in support of their respective positions. If such  
statement is not presented in written form, it shall be presented orally  
at the beginning of the mediation conference.  
The mediation conference will normally be attended by the grievant,  
the Local President, the grievant’s supervisor and District Level  
Manager. Attendance at the mediation conference shall be limited to  
those people actually involved in the mediation conference.  
All written material that is presented to the mediator or to the other  
party shall be returned to the party presenting the material at the ter-  
mination of the mediation conference. The mediator may, however,  
retain one copy of the written grievance, to be used solely for purposes  
of statistical analysis.  
Proceedings before the mediator shall be informal in nature. The pres-  
entation of evidence is not limited to that which has been presented in  
the grievance proceedings. However, the issue mediated will be the  
same as the issue the parties have tried to resolve through the griev-  
ance process. The rules of evidence will not apply, and no record of the  
mediation conference shall be made.  
The mediator will have the authority to meet separately with Company  
or Union representatives, but will not have the authority to compel the  
resolution of a grievance.  
The Company and Union spokespersons at the mediation conference  
may accept the resolution proposed by the mediator and such settle-  
ment or any other settlement resulting from the conference shall not  
be precedent-setting for other cases or grievances and may not be  
cited in any other proceeding between the parties. If no settlement is  
reached during the mediation conference, the mediator shall provide  
the parties with an immediate oral advisory opinion, unless both  
parties agree that no opinion shall be provided. The mediator shall  
state the grounds of his or her advisory opinion.  
If no settlement is reached at the mediation conference, the grievance  
will be heard in arbitration in accordance with provisions expressed in  
Section 7.10. Such hearing will be held within six (6) months of the  
date of the mediation hearing. In the event that a grievance which has  
been mediated subsequently is arbitrated, no person serving as a  
95  
|  
  
iw}  
=  
a  
=~  
   
mediator between these parties may serve as arbitrator. Nothing said  
or done by the mediator may be referred to at arbitration. Any settle-  
ment proposal made by either party at the mediation conference shall  
not be referred to at the arbitration hearing.  
The mediator shall conduct no more than three (3) mediation confer-  
ences per day. The fee and reasonable expenses of the mediator will  
be shared equally by the parties.  
In the event that the mediation of a grievance is scheduled, and then  
postponed or canceled, the parties shall remain liable for the fee spec-  
ified in Section 7.18K, unless another grievance is substituted for that  
grievance postponed or canceled.  
Section 7.19 DISMISSALS  
A.  
The Companies agree that no employee will be dismissed without a  
full and complete investigation by department supervision. The Com-  
panies recognize the right of the Union to assist an employee who has  
been suspended pending investigation, or who has been given notice  
of dismissal, or who has been dismissed, in presenting and/or  
appealing the employee’s case to the Companies.  
When it is necessary to dismiss an employee, the employee must be  
paid in full immediately for all time due. Every employee who is  
dismissed will be paid at the place of dismissal.  
96  
### ARTICLE 8  
### LAYOFFS  
Section 8.01 LAYOFFS (For Pacific Bell Home  
Entertainment, see Appendix B,  
Section B2.01)  
A. The National Union will be notified in writing in the event that any of  
the Companies deems it necessary to lay off Regular employees due  
to a change that will materially alter that Company’s Business Plan  
achievement, as described in Article 2, Employment Security, Section  
2.01.  
B. Employees who are still surplus after having been given the opportu-  
nity to accept reassignment as described in the Force Movement  
process will be laid off in inverse seniority order of net credited  
service.  
55  
=  
  
=  
  
  
C. Regular employees who are laid off will be paid a layoff allowance  
determined as to amount by their net credited service and basic weekly  
wage rate at the time of leaving the service, in accordance with the  
   
table below:  
Number of Weeks Number of Weeks  
Years of Net At Current Years of Net At Current  
Credited Service Basic Wage Credited Service Basic Wage Rate*  
Less than 6 months 0 11 years but less than 12 years 24  
6 months but less than 2 years 1 12 years but less than 13 years 28  
2 years but less than 3 years Z 13 years but less than 14 years 32  
3 years but less than 4 years 3 14 years but less than 15 years 36  
A years but less than 5 years 4 15 years but less than 16 years 40  
5 years but less than 6 years 6 16 years but less than 17 years 44  
6 years but less than 7 years 8 17 years but less than 18 years 48  
7 years but less than 8 years 10 18 years but less than 19 years 52  
8 years but less than9 years 12 19 years but less than 20 years 56  
9 years but less than 10 years 16 20 years but less than 21 years 60  
10 years but less than 11 years 20  
“Includes all applicable differentials  
97  
For employees with twenty-one (21) or more years of net credited service,  
an additional four (4) weeks’ pay at the current wage rate will be made for  
each additional completed year of service.  
1. For Regular part-time employees, the amount of layoff allowance  
is determined by reducing the employee’s basic weekly wage  
rate in proportion to the average number of hours worked to the  
average number of full-time hours applicable to the tours within  
which the hours were worked during the twenty-six (26) weeks  
immediately preceding the layoff.  
2. Any vacation payment to which the employee is eligible will be  
made in addition to the layoff allowance.  
D. If anemployee who has received a layoff allowance is recalled or reen-  
gaged, and the number of weeks since the effective date of leaving is  
less than the number of weeks’ pay upon which the layoff allowance  
was based, exclusive of any payment in lieu of vacation, the amount  
paid to the employee for the excess number of weeks will be consid-  
ered as an advance to the employee by the Companies. Repayment of  
this amount will be made at the time of reemployment, or through pay-  
roll deductions in each payroll period at the rate of at least ten (10) per-  
cent per week of the employee’s basic weekly wage rate, with the  
entire amount to be repaid within twelve (12) months of the date  
reemployed.  
E. who has been laid off and given a layoff allowance is  
subsequently recalled or reengaged and again laid off, the layoff  
allowance in the case of the second layoff or of any subsequent layoff  
will be based on the employee’s net credited service, less any prior  
layoff allowance received and not refunded to the Companies. How-  
ever, no deduction will be made from the second or subsequent layoff  
allowance if the employee has been back at work for at least twenty-  
four (24) months since the date of reemployment.  
F. Employees specifically designated as surplus and laid off will retain  
certain recall rights for twenty-four (24) months following the date  
they left the work group. Recall rights will be administered as follows:  
1. Surplus employees who are laid off must submit a form pro-  
vided by the Companies if they wish to be recalled from layoff.  
On this form, employees may express their preferences for reas-  
signment or placement after recall. They may designate any job  
98  
titles for which they are qualified as the job titles in which they  
wish to be placed should vacancies occur. Employees may also  
designate as many work locations as they wish for placement  
consideration. These location designations may be as specific  
(e.g., a building) or as general (e.g., a city or an entire geograph-  
ical area) as the employees desire. The employees’ preferences  
may be modified by the submission of a revised form as often as  
they wish during the twenty-four (24) month period that the  
employees retain their individual recall rights. Employees laid off  
under the terms of this Section must keep the Companies  
informed of the address where they can be reached.  
Laid off employees will receive placement priority as described  
in Section 2.04B 1b.  
A given employee shall receive only one (1) job offer for a posi-  
tion in the employee’s previous work group. The employee will  
receive only one (1) job offer for a position in the same job title  
in one (1) work location within a headquarters which the  
employee requested. The employee will receive a maximum of  
two (2) job offers in any other job titles for which the employee  
is qualified. If an employee refuses to accept the one (1) job offer  
made in either of the first two (2) cases described above or refuses  
to accept two (2) offers made in the last case, the employee will  
receive no other job offers.  
### IF THE EMPLOYEE IS OFFERED THEN  
1. A job in his/her previous work group no other job offers will be made.  
2. A job in the same title in one (1)  
work location which he/she requested no other job offers will be made.  
3. A job in any other title(s) (than the the employee will be entitled  
one held by the employee at the time to one (1) more job offer from either  
he/she was displaced) and declines 1,2, or 3.  
Whenever an employee receives a job offer as described in Sec-  
tion 8.01F3, the employee has three (3) calendar days from the  
date of the offer in which to accept or reject the job offer. If the  
employee accepts a job offer, the employee has fifteen (15) cal-  
endar days from the date of acceptance to report to work. Failure  
to report to work within this period will result in the termination  
of the job offer and the employee will forfeit all recall rights.  
99  
55  
=  
  
=  
  
  
   
5. Laid off employees recalled to a position as described in Section  
8.01F3 will not be entitled to relocation benefits.  
100  
### ARTICLE 9  
### OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH  
Section 9.01 Safety is a mutual concern to the Companies and the  
Union. The Companies and the Union recognize and appreciate that a  
healthy and safe work environment is in the best interests of the parties and  
encourage the involvement and participation of employees/Union members  
in safety and health activities. In order to accomplish this goal, the parties  
agree to the following:  
A. Pacific Bell and Nevada Bell will each establish with the Union a sep-  
arate Joint Committee on Occupational Safety and Health (JCOSH).  
Each JCOSH shall consist of three (3) Union appointed representatives  
and three (3) Company appointed representatives. The JCOSHs shall  
be established within thirty (30) days after the ratification of this  
Contract. Each JCOSH shall:  
1. Consider and examine appropriate suggestions from the Union  
and/or Company which would enhance ongoing health and safety  
programs.  
2. Make recommendations on health and safety issues to the  
Company/Union Bargainers, including recommendations on such  
subjects as surveys and studies. The JCOSH does not have the  
authority to formulate policy nor enter into agreements on sub-  
jects which require collective bargaining. The JCOSH is, how-  
ever, encouraged to make recommendations to Company officials  
responsible for health and safety matters, who may in turn author-  
ize the JCOSH to implement recommendations, if appropriate.  
   
3. Facilitate management and union discussion on local and  
statewide safety issues by encouraging open and forthright dis-  
cussions at the Business Unit level. Local and statewide health  
and safety committees shall keep the JCOSH informed and work  
with the JCOSH on issues of mutual concern.  
4. Meet at least quarterly; however, more frequent meetings may be  
held by mutual consent of the members of the JCOSH. Minutes  
of each JCOSH meeting shall be prepared and distributed as  
determined by the Company and Union bargaining  
spokespersons.  
101  
B. Employees of the Companies who are members of the JCOSHs will  
be paid for all meetings in accordance with the provisions of Section  
3.02 of this Contract.  
102  
### ARTICLE 10  
### CONCLUSION  
Section 10.01 This Contract shall become effective as of April 4, 2004,  
and shall continue in effect until 11:59 P.M., (Pacific Standard Time) April  
4, 2009. Negotiations on a new Contract shall begin not earlier than sixty  
(60) days prior to such termination. It is the intention of the parties with  
respect to the collective bargaining of future contracts replacing this or any  
subsequent wage, hours, and working conditions contract to conduct their  
negotiations thereon in such a manner as to reach a new agreement on or  
before the termination of this present Contract.  
IN WITNESS WHEREDOEF , the parties have caused this consolidated Con-  
tract to be signed this 3rd day of June, 2004, pursuant to the Memorandum  
of Agreement executed on June 3, 2004.  
Agreed: By: -  
Vice Pres ~ Labor Relations  
D 8 SBC Services, inc.  
   
   
103  
   
### NOTES  
104  
### APPENDIX A  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
Section A1 — Southern California  
The working conditions covered in this Section apply to employees of the  
Companies who are represented by the Communications Workers of Amer-  
ica in the following organizations: Network, SBC Services, Inc., Human  
Resources, Real Estate, Information Technology, Procurement, Network  
Planning & Engineering, Industry Markets Local Operations, Network  
Services Staff, Public Communications, SBC Telecom, Inc.—Network  
Operations and Advanced Solutions, Inc. as determined by geographic  
headquarters assignment to be in Southern California, having the title  
classifications listed below:  
### Section A1.01 TITLES AND APPLICATIONS  
Analyst  
Antenna Technician  
Assignment Administrator  
Building Mechanic  
Building Specialist  
Cable Locator  
Collector  
Communications Technician  
Company Telecommunications  
Technician  
Customer Service Associate  
Data Administrator  
Data Specialist  
Driver  
Engineering Administrator  
Engineering Assistant  
Engineering Cost Associate  
ENOC Technician  
Equipment Installation Technician  
Equipment Specialist  
Facilities Administrator  
Facilities Technician  
105  
FACS Administrator  
Field Job Administrator  
Garage Attendant  
Garage Mechanic  
Maintenance Administrator  
Messenger (Motorized)  
Network Maintenance Specialist  
Operations Administrator  
Operations Specialist  
Outside Plant Technician  
RCMA Administrator  
Reports Associate  
Services Specialist  
Services Technician  
Splicing Technician  
Staff Associate  
Supervisor’s Assistant  
Supply Service Assistant  
Systems Technician  
Systems Technician—  
Data Communications  
Testing Technician  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
  
   
Section A1.02 HOURS OF WORK  
A.  
Eight (8) consecutive hours of work exclusive of a meal period inter-  
mission shall constitute a tour, except as provided in Section A1.02I.  
Four (4) consecutive hours shall constitute a half-tour.  
1. tour is the eight-hour work period which is assigned by  
the Company within a shift and which the employee normally  
works.  
2. Ascheduled tour is the eight-hour work period within a shift an  
employee is scheduled to work on a particular day as provided in  
Section A1.03.  
3. All tours or half-tours will be considered as falling within the  
calendar day on which the tour or half-tour commences.  
A regular shift (day, evening or night) is one assigned to an employee  
for a period of two (2) weeks or more, except that training assign-  
ments, vacation reliefs or training reliefs of one (1) week or more are  
regular shifts. Vacation reliefs shall include any additional days which  
the employee being relieved may take immediately preceding or fol-  
lowing the vacation allowed under Article 6, Section 6.02. A scheduled  
shift is the one within which an employee’s scheduled tour falls.  
The day shift includes tours starting at or after 6:00 A.M. and prior to  
12:00 noon. Normal working hours shall be eight (8) consecutive  
hours, starting at 8:00 A.M., exclusive of meal period intermission.  
The evening shift includes tours starting at or after 12:00 noon and not  
later than 7:00 P.M.  
A night shift includes tours starting after 7:00 P.M. and prior to  
6:00 A.M. No tour shall be scheduled for a period of two (2) weeks or  
more, which starts later than 12:00 midnight or before 5:00 A.M.  
The hours of work for all employees shall start and finish at any  
location designated by their supervisor and in accordance with the  
provisions of the following:  
1. When the designated starting point of work is within the  
employees’ specified limits, their working hours shall start and  
finish:  
a. At designated job locations for non-motorized splicing  
Crews.  
106  
b. At Company-owned or rented premises or at customers’  
premises (P.B.X. locations, sub-storerooms, etc.) for all  
other employees.  
2. Travel time will be computed as provided for in Article 5, Section  
5.05C2.  
3. are away from headquarters and the location is  
such that there are no specified limits, their working hours shall  
start and finish at the camp, hotel or garage designated by the  
supervisor.  
4. The specified limits referred to in this Section are defined in  
Section A1.04.  
When an employee is being transferred at the direction of the Com-  
pany to anew headquarters or moved from one job location to another,  
travel time excluding regular meal periods, shall be considered as  
time worked, except that when sleeping accommodations on com-  
mercial transportation are furnished, travel time falling outside the  
employee’s scheduled tour, or if not scheduled, the employee’s regular  
tour, shall not be paid for.  
Meal period intermission shall normally be one (1) hour. Generally,  
meal period intermissions of less than one (1) hour shall be on the  
basis of an entire work group in the same title classification at a par-  
ticular work location as determined by the Company and the Local  
Union. Where the Company deems it desirable to implement meal  
periods of different lengths, the change will be negotiated with the  
Local Union.  
Meal period intermission may be reduced by mutual agreement  
between the employee and the supervisor.  
1. In those cases where an employee’s scheduled meal period is  
reduced, the employee shall be compensated at the rate of time  
and one-half (1-1/2) for the portion of the scheduled meal period  
the employee works. If the employee prefers, his or her schedule  
shall be adjusted to reflect the reduced meal period and earlier  
quitting time.  
2. In those cases where the employee requests the change, no  
premium payments will be involved.  
107  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
  
   
Employees working evening and night shifts, and employees working  
on day shifts where the needs of the service require it in the judgment  
of the Company, shall be granted a reasonable meal period on Com-  
pany time. Employees must not leave their work without approval of  
their supervisors.  
The normal workweek shall consist of five (5) scheduled tours or the  
equivalent in tours and half-tours within a calendar week (Sunday to  
Saturday inclusive). Employees scheduled to work on Sunday shall be  
scheduled four (4) additional consecutive days. Any hours assigned in  
excess of the normal workweek are non-scheduled hours.  
### Section A1.03 WORK SCHEDULES  
A.  
B.  
A work schedule is the notification to employees of their scheduled  
work time.  
Work schedules shall be posted to show the normal week, scheduled  
Sundays, shift (day, evening or night) and hours. Such schedules shall  
cover not less than a two-week period and shall be posted at least  
forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of such period. When work  
schedules are posted to cover periods of more than two (2) weeks, the  
first two-week period shall be considered the basic period for deter-  
mining an employee’s regular shift. Each succeeding two-week period  
shall become the basic period forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start  
of such two-week period.  
1. The posted work schedule for any such two-week period shall not  
be changed less than forty-eight (48) hours before the start of the  
particular two-week period, except as hereinafter provided in  
this Contract.  
2. Work schedules will not be posted for employees who normally  
work the same hours within the day shift, Monday to Friday,  
inclusive.  
3. Schedules shall be posted in a place accessible to employees  
involved and shall remain posted during the period covered by  
such schedule and held available to employees for a period of one  
(1) year.  
In no case shall less than a half-tour be scheduled as a part of the  
normal workweek.  
108  
Except as provided for in Article 5, Section 5.011 and Section 5.04H  
of this Contract, unless an employee is given at least forty-eight (48)  
hours’ notice of a change in the days or hours the employee is sched-  
uled to work, the employee will be permitted to work the days or  
hours originally scheduled and any other time which the employee is  
required to work shall be in addition to that originally scheduled.  
The foregoing paragraph will not apply under the following conditions:  
1. When changes in days to be worked are made at the employee’s  
request, with the approval of supervision.  
2. When changes are made between day, evening or night shifts for  
which a premium is paid.  
3. When an employee is scheduled to work and is excused with pay.  
### Section A1.04 HEADQUARTERS AND SPECIFIED LIMITS  
A.  
Headquarters as used in this Section is the territory within the base rate  
area of an exchange, for example, Los Angeles, Glendale, San Pedro,  
etc., in which an employee is regularly assigned to work.  
Specified Limits as used in this Section is the headquarters boundary,  
except that within the Los Angeles Headquarters the specified limits  
shall be identical with the zone boundaries. Zones shall consist of the  
territory within the base rate area boundary included within the  
following office boundaries:  
### ZONE A ZONE B  
Angelus — 3434 E. 4th Adams — 501 E. Vernon  
Capitol — 2445 Daly Axminster — 3233 W. Vernon  
Clinton — 1207 N. Ave. 56 Lorain — 9420 Long Beach Blvd.,  
Madison — 433 S. Olive South Gate  
Ludlow — 6822 Santa Fe,  
ZONE C Huntington Park  
Dunkirk — 720 S. Rampart Pleasant — 6900 S. Vermont  
Hollywood — 1429 N. Gower Plymouth — 10600 S. Vermont  
Huntley — 111 N. Union Republic — 1935 W. Adams  
Melrose — 8075 Melrose Richmond — 1900 S. Grand  
Normandy — 1255 N. Vermont — Spruce — 6931 Atlantic Ave., Bell  
Sunset — 7323 Sunset  
Webster — 666 S. La Brea  
109  
   
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
  
All employees shall be assigned a headquarters. Headquarters for new  
employees may be assigned at the time hired or upon completion of  
initial training in formal Company schools.  
All employees assigned to the Los Angeles Headquarters shall also be  
assigned to the zone in which they regularly work.  
An employee’s headquarters shall not be changed for a period of less  
than six (6) consecutive months, except when the change is made at  
the request of the employee.  
An employee’s zone shall not be changed for a period of less than  
thirty (30) consecutive days, except when the change is made at the  
request of the employee.  
### Section A1.05 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS  
A.  
When an employee has not been relieved for five (5) consecutive  
hours or more during the twenty-four (24) hours immediately preced-  
ing a period of work, whether scheduled or extra time, the employee  
shall be paid at the premium rate from the starting time of such period  
of work until relieved from duty.  
All time worked for a period beginning three (3) hours or more before  
the employee’s scheduled tour, or if not scheduled, the employee’s reg-  
ular tour, and continuing until relieved from duty shall be paid for at  
the premium rate.  
The same conditions with respect to traveling time as covered in Arti-  
cle 5, Section 5.04K of this Contract will apply to all changes in start-  
ing time when the notification to the employee of such a change is  
made after 11:00 P.M. and prior to 6:00 A.M., unless such notification  
is given the employee while at work.  
When an employee is scheduled for a period of less than two (2)  
weeks to a shift other than the employee’s regular shift, all hours  
worked shall be paid for at the premium rate, except as follows:  
1. When the employee requests a change for personal reasons, the  
straight-time rate, including any applicable differential, will be  
paid.  
2. An employee receiving a shift differential who is temporarily  
assigned to a day shift in connection with training assignments,  
vacation reliefs or training reliefs for a period of one (1) week or  
110  
more but less than two (2) weeks, shall retain the shift differen-  
tial but shall not receive premium pay for the change of shift.  
Such vacation relief shall be deemed to include any additional  
days which the employee on vacation may take immediately  
preceding or following the employee’s vacation.  
An employee temporarily assigned to an evening or night shift in  
connection with training assignments, vacation reliefs or training  
reliefs for a period of one (1) week or more, shall receive the  
appropriate shift differential, but shall not receive premium pay  
for the change of shift. Such vacation relief shall be deemed to  
include any additional days which the evening or night shift  
employee may take immediately preceding or following the  
employee’s vacation.  
E. The Company shall distribute the opportunity to work time which  
requires payment at premium rates as equitably as the needs of the  
service will permit. Representatives of the Company and the Union  
shall endeavor to determine the employee groups which are appropri-  
ate for this purpose. In the event of failure to reach agreement, final  
determination of the appropriate employee groups will be made by the  
Highest Level below Officer or an authorized representative. The  
provisions of this Section shall not be subject to arbitration.  
iL.  
Lists shall be maintained on an accumulative basis for each  
appropriate employee group showing the distribution in terms of  
equivalent hours separately for (1) scheduled Sunday and holiday  
work and other scheduled work paid for at the premium rate; (2)  
all non-scheduled work. When time worked during an  
employee’s normal workweek results in premium payments for  
a scheduled day, only the premium portion shall be included in  
the list. Such lists shall be made available in a place mutually  
agreeable for ready inspection by any employee in the group.  
Section A1.06 SENIORITY  
A. Seniority, wherever used in this Contract, shall mean net credited  
service as shown by the records of the Company.  
B. Avvacancy shall not be deemed to exist for:  
### LL,  
Any period of sickness or accident disability absence, or  
114  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
  
   
2. Leaves of absence not to exceed ninety (90) days, or other  
temporary absences not to exceed six (6) months, or  
3. Absences for formal training not to exceed one (1) year, or other  
training not to exceed nine (9) months, or  
4. In the case of relief assignments arising out of absences, as  
covered in 1, 2, or 3 of this Section.  
The Company shall take seniority into consideration in selecting  
employees for training. Nothing in this provision shall limit the Com-  
pany’s right to select employees for training who, in its judgment, are  
best qualified to receive such training. Neither the provisions of this  
Section nor their application shall be subject to arbitration.  
Seniority shall be considered in the assignment of hours within a shift  
among those qualified employees regularly assigned to the shift.  
Whenever two (2) or more shifts which carry the same premium pay-  
ments are scheduled for the same day, employees scheduled to work  
such shifts by the Company may exercise a choice of shifts, at the time  
work schedules are prepared, in the order of their seniority provided  
their job qualifications, as determined by the Company, are adequate  
to meet the demands of the service.  
The provisions of this Section may be suspended by the Company  
when such action is required by the demands of the service. The  
phrase “demands of the service” means any or all requirements nec-  
essary to improve and protect the service, adjust the force between  
hours, shifts and locations, care for the training needs of the force and  
determine the qualifications of an employee for any assignment. The  
determination of the demands of the service rests with the Company.  
When any or all of the provisions of this Article have been suspended  
because of the demands of the service as herein defined, the Company  
will notify the Union as soon as practicable.  
Section A2 — Northern California and Nevada  
The working conditions covered in this Section apply to employees of the  
Companies who are represented by the Communications Workers of Amer-  
ica in the following organizations: Network, SBC Services, Inc., Human  
Resources, Real Estate, Information Technology, Procurement, Network  
Planning & Engineering, Industry Markets Local Operations, Network  
Services Staff, Public Communications, SBC Telecom, Inc.—Network  
112  
Operations, SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas, NV, Advanced Solutions, Inc.,  
Pacific Bell Information Services-Maintenance Notification Group and  
External Affairs/Regulatory—Nevada only as determined by geographic  
headquarters assignment to be in Northern California or Nevada, having the  
title classifications listed below:  
### Section A2.01 TITLES AND APPLICATIONS  
Accounting Associate  
Analyst  
Antenna Technician  
Assignment Administrator  
Building Mechanic  
Building Specialist  
Cable Locator  
Collector  
Combination Technician (Nevada Only)  
Communications Technician  
Company Telecommunications  
Technician  
Customer Service Associate  
Data Administrator  
Data Specialist  
Driver  
Engineering Administrator  
Engineering Assistant  
Engineering Cost Associate  
ENOC Technician  
Equipment Installation Technician  
Equipment Specialist  
Facilities Administrator  
Facilities Technician  
FACS Administrator  
Field Job Administrator  
Section A2.02 HOURS OF WORK  
A. Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, shall constitute  
a full shift, except as provided in Section A2.02H. Four (4) consecu-  
tive hours, exclusive of meal period, shall constitute a half shift. A  
113  
Garage Attendant  
Garage Mechanic  
Human Resources Operations  
Associate  
Maintenance Administrator  
Maintenance Notification  
Associate (PBIS MNG only)  
Medical Assistant  
Messenger (Motorized)  
Network Maintenance Specialist  
Operations Administrator  
Operations Specialist  
Outside Plant Technician  
RCMA Administrator  
Reports Associate  
Services Specialist  
Services Technician  
Splicing Technician  
Staff Associate  
Supervisor’s Assistant  
Supply Service Attendant  
Supply Specialist (Nevada only)  
Systems Technician  
Systems Technician—  
Data Communications  
Testing Technician  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
a  
   
regular shift (day, evening or night) is one scheduled to be an  
employee’s shift for a period of not less than two (2) weeks.  
1.  
Temporary changes from a regular shift for periods of one (1)  
calendar week or more but less than two (2) calendar weeks,  
within a basic period as defined in Section A2.02A2 below, for  
vacation reliefs, classroom training reliefs or classroom training  
assignments shall be deemed regular shifts and shall be paid for  
at straight-time plus any applicable shift differential. Temporary  
changes for vacation relief shall be deemed to include any addi-  
tional days which the employee may take immediately preceding  
or following the employee’s vacation.  
Work schedules shall be posted to show the normal week, sched-  
uled Sundays, shift (day, evening or night) and hours. Such  
schedules shall cover not less than a two-week period and shall  
be posted at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of such  
period. Where work schedules are posted to cover periods of  
more than two (2) weeks, the first two-week period shall be con-  
sidered the basic period for determining an employee’s regular  
shift. Each succeeding two-week period shall become the basic  
period forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of such two-week  
period.  
The posted work schedule for any such two-week period shall not  
be changed less than forty-eight (48) hours before the start of the  
particular two-week period, except as hereinafter provided in  
this Contract.  
Work schedules will not be posted for employees who normally  
work the same hours within the day shift, Monday to Friday,  
inclusive.  
Temporary changes on a scheduled day between day, evening or  
night shifts, that is, a change from a day shift to a night shift, a  
night shift to an evening shift, etc., shall not be construed as a  
change in schedule.  
A day shift is a shift starting at or after 6:00 A.M. and prior to 12:00  
noon. The normal working hours of a day shift will be from 8:00 A.M.  
to 12:00 noon and 1:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M.  
An evening shift is a shift starting at or after 12:00 noon and not later  
than 7:00 P.M.  
114  
A night shift is a shift starting after 7:00 P.M. and not later than 12:00  
midnight.  
No shift shall be scheduled to start later than 12:00 midnight or before  
5:00 A.M. No shift shall be scheduled to end after 1:00 A.M. or before  
5:00 A.M. No half-shift shall be scheduled between the hours of 12:00  
midnight and 6:00 A.M.  
All shifts or half-shifts will be considered as falling within the calendar  
day on which the shift or half-shift commences.  
Assigned shifts on Sundays and holidays shall be such hours as the  
service may require and shall not be for less than four (4) hours.  
Employees working evening and night shifts, and employees working  
on day shifts where the needs of the service require it in the judgment  
of the Company, shall be granted a reasonable meal period on Com-  
pany time. Employees must not leave their work without the approval  
of their supervisor.  
The workweek shall normally consist of five (5) full shifts within a  
calendar week. When necessary, the workweek may consist of full  
shifts on certain days and half-shifts on the other days. Not more than  
two (2) half-shifts per employee shall be scheduled in any one work-  
week. Employees scheduled to work on Sunday shall be scheduled  
four (4) additional consecutive days.  
Holidays paid for which fall on an employee’s scheduled workday  
shall be considered a part of the normal workweek described above  
whether worked or not.  
Meal period intermission shall normally be one (1) hour. Generally,  
meal period intermissions of less than one (1) hour shall be on the  
basis of an entire work group in the same title classification at a par-  
ticular work location as determined by the Company and the Local  
Union. Where the Company deems it desirable to implement meal  
periods of different lengths, the change will be negotiated with the  
Local Union.  
Meal period intermission may be reduced by mutual agreement  
between the employee and the supervisor.  
1. In those cases where an employee’s scheduled meal period is  
reduced, the employee shall be compensated at the rate of time  
and one-half (1-1/2) for the portion of the scheduled meal period  
115  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
a  
   
K.  
the employee works. If the employee prefers, his or her schedule  
shall be adjusted to reflect the reduced meal period and earlier  
quitting time.  
2. In those cases where the employee requests the change, no  
premium payments will be involved.  
The specified limits referred to in this Section shall generally be the  
base rate area boundary of an exchange.  
1. Employees working within specified limits shall report on the job  
or at the garage, in accordance with their supervisor’s instruc-  
tions, at the beginning of their regular shift and leave the job or  
garage at the end of their regular shift. When working outside  
specified limits, they shall report at the start and end of their reg-  
ular shift at the garage or other location within the specified  
limits in accordance with their supervisor’s instructions.  
2. When the location of the work is such that there are no specified  
limits the Company will provide transportation from the hotel,  
camp or garage to the work and return, to be used at the option  
of the employee. Shifts shall start and end at the hotel, camp or  
garage, as determined by the supervisor.  
3. Travel time will be computed as provided for in Article 5, Section  
5.05C2.  
### Section A2.03 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS  
A.  
Time worked beginning three (3) hours or more before the start of an  
employee’s shift and not continuing into the shift, shall be paid for at  
the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked.  
The minimum time paid for shall be two (2) hours.  
Time worked beginning three (3) hours or more before the start of an  
employee’s shift and continuing into the employee’s shift shall be  
paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour  
worked until the employee is relieved from duty, except as provided  
in Article 5, Section 5.04H. Meal period intermission shall not con-  
stitute a relief from duty.  
When an employee has not been relieved for five (5) consecutive  
hours or more during the twenty-four (24) hours immediately preced-  
ing the employee’s regular shift, the employee shall be paid at the rate  
of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked during  
116  
such shift and thereafter until relieved from duty for five (5) consec-  
utive hours or more, except as provided in Article 5, Section 5.04H.  
D. Overtime will apply to all time consumed in traveling when employ-  
ees are being transferred to new headquarters or moved from one job  
location to another when such traveling follows and is a continuation  
of a regular shift, provided that when sleeping accommodations are  
furnished, no overtime will be allowed.  
E. Except as provided for in Article 5, Section 5.011 and Section 5.04H  
of this Contract unless an employee is given at least forty-eight (48)  
hours’ notice of a change in the days or hours the employee is sched-  
uled to work, the employee will be permitted to work the days or  
hours originally scheduled and any other time which the employee is  
required to work shall be in addition to that originally scheduled.  
The foregoing paragraph will not apply under the following  
conditions:  
1. When changes in days to be worked are made at the employee’s  
request, with the approval of supervision.  
2. When changes are made between day, evening or night shifts for  
which a premium is paid.  
3. When an employee is scheduled to work and is excused with pay.  
F. Changes from the regular shift will be paid for at the rate of one and  
one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked off shift and the pre-  
mium payment will cease when the employee’s regular shift resumes.  
A change of shift is interpreted to mean a change between day, evening  
or night shift. When an employee requests a change in shift for  
personal reasons, straight-time will be paid.  
G. The Company will endeavor to distribute the opportunity to work  
extra time which requires payment at premium rates as equitably as the  
needs of the service will permit. The Company will determine the  
employee groups which are appropriate for this purpose. No grievance  
arising from the application or interpretation of this Section shall be  
subject to arbitration.  
### Section A2.04 ASSIGNMENT OF HEADQUARTERS  
Headquarters for each employee in this bargaining unit will be the exchange  
to which the employee is assigned. Employees shall not have their  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
  
117  
   
headquarters changed for a period of less than six (6) months except when  
the change is at the employee’s request.  
Section A2.05 SENIORITY  
Seniority, based on net credited service as shown by records of the  
Company, shall have application to the following:  
A. Seniority shall be considered in the assignment of hours within a shift  
among those qualified employees regularly assigned to the shift.  
B. The selection of vacation dates within each vacation schedule, as  
provided in Article 6, Section 6.02.  
### Section A3 OPERATOR SERVICES ONLY (EXCEPT  
### MARKETING DIRECTORY UNIT) WORKING  
### CONDITIONS  
The working conditions covered in this Section apply to employees of the  
Companies who are represented by the Communications Workers of  
America in the following organizations: Operator Services, Marketing  
Directory Unit-Data Administrator Title only and External Affairs/Reg-  
ulatory (California only), having the title classifications listed below:  
### Section A3.01 TITLES AND APPLICATIONS  
A. Central Office Employees:  
Central Office Associate  
Operator (All Classifications)  
Service Assistant  
Service Assistant—Bilingual  
Translations Operator  
B. Office and Clerical Employees:  
Analyst  
Data Administrator  
Data Specialist  
Office Associate  
Reports Associate  
Staff Associate  
Supervisor’s Assistant  
C. Other Employees:  
Services Specialist  
118  
Section A3.02 HOURS OF WORK  
A.  
Seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours, excluding meal intermissions but  
including relief periods, shall constitute a full tour of duty for employ-  
ees with titles listed in Section A3.01A, except as provided in Sub-  
sections 1, 2, 3 and 5 following. Eight (8) hours, excluding meal  
intermissions but including relief periods, shall constitute a full tour of  
duty for all other employees.  
1.  
A tour of duty ending at 10:01 P.M., or after, but not all-night  
tours, shall be six (6) hours in length, including a half-hour com-  
bined relief and meal period, and shall be considered and treated  
as a full tour of duty.  
A tour of duty ending between 9:00 P.M. and 10:00 P.M., both  
inclusive, shall be seven (7) hours in length, excluding intermis-  
sion for meals but including relief periods, and shall be consid-  
ered and treated as a full tour of duty.  
A tour of duty ending between 8:00 P.M. and 8:59 P.M., both  
inclusive, for employees with a title listed in Section A3.01A  
shall be seven (7) hours in length, excluding intermission for  
meals but including relief periods, and shall be considered and  
treated as a full tour of duty.  
A tour of duty ending between 7:01 P.M. and 8:59 P.M., both  
inclusive, for employees with a title listed in Section A3.01C  
shall be seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours in length, excluding  
intermission for meals but including relief periods, and shall be  
considered and treated as a full tour of duty.  
An all-night tour of duty in offices where more than one  
employee is regularly scheduled for all-night duty shall be seven  
(7) hours in length, excluding intermission for meals but includ-  
ing relief periods, and shall be considered and treated as a full  
tour of duty. In offices where only one employee is regularly  
scheduled for all-night duty, all-night tours shall be seven (7)  
hours in length, including an on-duty meal period and relief  
periods and shall be considered as a full tour.  
The basic workweek shall consist of five (5) full tours or the equiva-  
lent thereof within a calendar week. Weekly assignments for full-time  
employees shall consist normally of five (5) full tours. When necessary  
to meet service demands, weekly assignments may consist of four (4)  
119  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
a  
   
full tours on certain days and two (2) half tours on other days. For  
Nevada employees, the work schedules shall cover not less than a two-  
week period and shall be posted at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to  
the start of such period.  
### C. RELIEF PERIODS FOR CENTRAL OFFICE EMPLOYEES:  
1.  
Relief periods will be scheduled at exchanges regularly having a  
force of ten (10) or more Operators on duty in the busy hours.  
In exchanges where reliefs are scheduled, the relief periods will  
be for fifteen (15) minutes in each of the two (2) sessions of the  
seven (7), seven and one-half (7-1/2) hour tours and shall be  
given as near the middle of the session as practicable. No relief  
period shall start or end less than one (1) hour from the start or  
end, respectively, of any session.  
Scheduled reliefs will not be cancelled or curtailed except in  
case of emergency.  
At exchanges where reliefs are not scheduled, the management  
supervisor shall arrange as a regular routine for each employee to  
be granted a relief during each session of the employee’s tour at  
a time which most closely suits the needs of the employee and the  
office. The length of such a relief shall be fifteen (15) minutes.  
### Section A3.03 OVERTIME AND SUNDAY PAY PRACTICES  
### A. ASSIGNED OVERTIME AND SUNDAY PAY TREATMENT:  
1.  
Time paid for but not worked on a holiday which falls Monday  
through Friday in the calendar week and time paid for but not  
worked on Personal Days Off, shall be included as time worked  
in the workweek. Time worked in excess of the basic workweek  
shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay  
for each such hour worked, except that both overtime and Sun-  
day or holiday payments shall not be made for the same hours  
worked. The following time shall not be included when deter-  
mining time worked in excess of the basic workweek:  
a. Time paid for but not worked, except holiday pay and  
Personal Day Off pay as provided in Section A3.03A1  
above and time which is considered as time worked in  
accordance with Article 3, Section 3.02B3.  
120  
b. Time worked in excess of a full tour of duty on any day.  
2. All Sunday work for employees having titles listed in Section  
A3.01A shall be distributed among employees of an office on a  
rotational assignment basis, except that the Company may  
require such employees to work as it deems necessary to meet the  
needs of the service. If there are sufficient employees regularly  
desiring Sunday work, employees may be excused from Sunday  
work.  
### CALL-OUTS — ON A SCHEDULED WORK DAY  
The following shall apply when an employee covered by this Section  
is notified on the day of a scheduled tour that the employee’s  
immediate services are required:  
1. are called for work which requires their imme-  
diate services, work time starts from time of notification and  
includes normal traveling time to home except when the  
employee continues to the end of a scheduled tour or half-tour, or  
the employee requests, and is granted time off with or without  
pay (in accordance with current office practices), in which case  
compensation ceases when the employee is relieved from duty  
and no time allowance shall be made for returning home.  
2. When employees are notified that their immediate services are  
required, after having worked all or part of a scheduled tour,  
they shall be paid from the time of notification at the rates appli-  
cable (premium, holiday, straight-time, etc.) for a minimum  
period of two (2) hours including travel time to home.  
### CALL-OUTS — ON A NON-SCHEDULED DAY  
The following shall apply when employees covered by this Section are  
notified on a non-scheduled day that their immediate services are  
required:  
When employees are notified that their immediate services are  
required on other than a scheduled workday, they shall be paid from  
time of notification at the rates applicable (premium, holiday, straight-  
time, etc.) for a minimum period of two (2) hours including traveling  
time to home.  
When travel time is paid under the provisions of Section A3.03B1 and  
Section A3.03C, employees shall be reimbursed for mileage.  
121  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
a  
   
Section A3.04 SENIORITY  
A.  
The establishment of employees’ seniority dates is governed by such  
rules of procedure as are agreed upon from time to time by the Union  
and the Company. For this purpose, net credited service, as shown by  
the records of the Company, shall be used unless changed by mutual  
agreement.  
Equitable assignment of hours of work and vacation periods shall be  
made by allowing employees precedence in selection of assignments  
from the schedules in accordance with the order of their established  
seniority dates.  
In making assignments in higher-rated non-management title classifi-  
cations specified in Section A3.01, the Company will select the  
employee who, in its judgment, is best qualified for the assignment.  
When two or more employees are judged by management to be  
equally qualified, seniority shall determine the choice. The provisions  
of this Section may be referred to the grievance procedure set forth in  
Article 7, Section 7.05 but neither the provisions of this Section nor  
their application shall be subject to arbitration.  
All seniority considerations are subject to the needs of the service,  
which include any and all requirements necessary to protect the serv-  
ice, to meet satisfactory adjustments and scheduling of the force, to  
care for training needs and to determine the qualifications of an  
employee for an assignment. Determination of the “needs of the  
service” rests solely with management.  
For employees temporarily transferred between exchanges within the  
territorial limits of this bargaining unit, or into the territory covered by  
this bargaining unit, seniority in regard to selection of hours at the  
exchange to which they are transferred will start with the date of  
temporary transfer.  
### Section A3.05 DIFFERENTIALS  
A.  
An employee having a title listed in Section A3.01A who works an  
early morning tour beginning before 6:00 A.M., or an evening or night  
tour of duty shall receive the wage differential applying as shown  
below. The amount of wage differentials as specified in Appendix C,  
is for one (1) full tour of duty. The differential will be added to the  
122  
basic wage rate in computing vacation, overtime, holiday and Sunday  
payments.  
1.  
If a tour to which a differential is applicable is worked as  
assigned, the full differential is payable.  
If a tour to which a differential is applicable is not completed due  
to an employee’s being excused, the full differential is payable if  
the remainder of the tour is paid for.  
If a tour to which a differential is applicable is not completed due  
to an employee’s being absent, whether excused or unexcused,  
and the remainder of the tour is not paid for, the differential  
payable will be the differential, if any, applicable at the end of the  
time paid for, except as provided herein:  
a. When an employee assigned to work a seven and one-half  
hour evening tour leaves the job and is paid to a time when  
an eight-hour differential is in effect, or when an employee  
assigned to work a seven-hour evening tour leaves the job  
and is paid to a time when a seven and one-half or eight-  
hour differential is in effect, or when an employee assigned  
to work a six-hour evening tour leaves the job and is paid to  
a time when a seven-hour, seven and one-half hour or eight-  
hour differential is in effect, the differential shall be the  
lowest differential applicable to the type of tour (seven and  
one-half, seven or six-hour) originally assigned.  
b. employee will receive the full night differential  
when absent part of the tour.  
A full differential is payable for a part-time evening tour, and an  
uncompleted part-time assignment is subject to the same treat-  
ment accorded full-time assignments in Section A3.05A3.  
For each day of paid vacation or each day of excused time paid  
for and of each paid holiday not worked, an employee will  
receive the normal daily differential as shown in Appendix C.  
Where an employee’s assignments are such as to vary in the  
frequency and amount of differential paid, the assignments for  
the days on which the employee was absent will determine the  
differential to be paid, or, if no assignment has been made, the  
differential applying shall be determined as follows:  
123  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
  
   
a. The differential, if any, for paid days of a vacation week  
shall be that applicable to the first five (5) assigned work-  
days or paid days of the week preceding the start of vaca-  
tion.  
b. The differential for a day of excused time paid for or a paid  
holiday not worked shall be that applicable to the assign-  
ment on the corresponding day of the preceding calendar  
week. If the corresponding day of the preceding week was  
not an assigned workday, then the differential applicable to  
the last assigned workday, preceding the absent day or  
holiday, shall apply.  
Relief of an employee in a higher-rated title, other than as specified in  
Section A3.05B4 shall be compensated for by a daily differential, if  
such period of relief is half a tour or more and provided the relieving  
employee is qualified by training or experience, as determined by the  
Company, as follows:  
1.  
Three dollars ($3.00) when an Operator relieves a Service Assistant,  
Service Assistant — Bilingual or Central Office Associate.  
Eight dollars ($8.00) when a central office employee relieves an  
employee with any management title.  
Eight dollars ($8.00) when an employee with a title listed in  
A3.01B relieves a management employee provided the relieving  
employee assumes all the duties of the relieved employee. Three  
dollars ($3.00) when an employee with a title listed in A3.01B  
relieves a higher-rated employee also listed in A3.01B provided  
the relieving employees assumes all the duties of the relieved  
employee.  
The appropriate higher-rated title shall be assigned effective with  
the first day of duty relieving an employee having a higher-rated  
title when the relief assignment 1s:  
a. Ona full-time basis for at least five (5) full tours within a  
period of seven (7) consecutive days, or  
b. planned to continue for four (4) consecutive weeks or longer  
and is for at least two and one-half (2-1/2) days per week,  
or  
124  
c. has been worked at least two and one-half (2-1/2) days per  
week for a period of four (4) consecutive weeks or more.  
C. An Operator who, for half a tour or more, operates the control position  
of a switchboard designed for Operator training shall be paid a daily  
differential in the amount of forty cents ($.40) above the employee’s  
basic wage rate.  
D. The differential specified in Section A3.05B and Section A3.05C will  
be added to the basic wage rate in computing payments for overtime  
work and time worked on holidays and Sundays. Such differentials  
shall not be added to the basic wage rate in computing payments for  
vacations, holidays not worked and other excused paid time.  
E. Services Specialists shall be paid in accordance with the applicable  
wage schedules included in Appendix C. Services Specialists who  
relieve employees carrying a higher job title will be paid in accordance  
with Article 4, Section 4.02 or Service Specialists who relieve a  
manager will be paid in accordance with Article 5, Section 5.02.  
The relief differential specified above will be added to the basic wage  
rate in computing payments for overtime work and time worked on  
holidays and Sundays. Such differentials shall not be added to the  
basic wage rate in computing payments for vacations, holidays not  
worked and other excused paid time.  
### DUTIES OF SERVICE ASSISTANT AND  
### SERVICE ASSISTANT-BILINGUAL  
Conduct initial and supplemental training of Operators.  
Provide console coverage to assist Operators, other employees and  
customers in the handling of calls, including emergency calls. Handle  
customer calls at an operating position in emergency conditions, when  
directed by management.  
Take charge of the office when assigned, such as on Sundays, holidays or  
other periods or substitute in higher positions when directed by  
management.  
Perform miscellaneous activities assigned by management, which may  
include:  
1. Conduct actual work time studies.  
2. Inform Operators of changes in operating practices and  
procedures.  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
a  
125  
   
3. Process emergency requests.  
4. Check Operators on and off duty.  
5. Perform miscellaneous ticket activities.  
6. Analyze employees’ operating skills to determine training needs.  
The above outline covers generally the principal duties of the Service  
Assistant and Service Assistant-Bilingual. Other duties of the same general  
type customarily performed are not listed, and their exclusion shall not be  
construed as limiting the duties to the items listed above.  
Section A4  
The working conditions covered in this Section apply to employees of the  
Companies who are represented by the Communications Workers of  
America in Network (Service Representative Title only), Consumer Markets  
Group, Business Communications Services, Industry Markets except Local  
Operations, Procurement (Production Representative Title only), Infor-  
mation Technology (Computer Operator, Service Representative and Col-  
lection Representative Titles only), Directory White Pages (Service  
Representative and Staff Associate Titles only), Finance, Advanced  
Solutions, Inc. (Service Representative and Order Writer Titles only), Global  
Markets, and Marketing having the title classifications listed below:  
### Section A4.01 TITLES AND APPLICATIONS  
Accounting Associate Information Processor  
Accounting Specialist Messenger (Motorized)  
Analyst Office Associate  
Cashier Order Writer  
Collection Representative Production Representative  
Collection Representative — Bilingual Provisioning Specialist  
Computer Operator Reports Associate  
Copy Service Artist Sales and Service  
Customer Associate Representative — Bilingual  
Customer Representative Service Representative  
Customer Representative — Bilingual Staff Associate  
Customer Service Associate Supervisor’s Assistant  
Data Administrator  
Data Entry Associate  
Data Specialist  
126  
Section A4.02 HOURS OF WORK  
A.  
Eight (8) consecutive hours of work, exclusive of meal period inter-  
mission, shall constitute a shift. Four (4) consecutive hours shall  
constitute a half-shift.  
1. Aregular shift (day, evening or night) is one scheduled to be an  
employee’s shift for a period of not less than two (2) weeks.  
2. All shifts or half-shifts will be considered as falling within the  
calendar day on which the shift or half-shift commences.  
3. Assigned shifts on Sundays and Holidays shall be such hours as the  
service may require and shall not be for less than four (4) hours.  
Work schedules shall be posted to show the normal week, scheduled  
Sundays, shift (day, evening or night) and hours. Such schedules shall  
cover not less than a two-week period and shall be posted at least  
forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of such period. When work  
schedules are posted to cover periods of more than two (2) weeks, the  
first two-week period shall be considered the basic period for deter-  
mining an employee’s regular shift. Each succeeding two-week period  
shall become the basic period forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start  
of such two-week period.  
1. The posted work schedule for any such two-week period shall not  
be changed less than forty-eight (48) hours before the start of the  
particular two-week period, except as hereinafter provided.  
2. Temporary changes on a scheduled day between day, evening or  
night shifts, that is, a change from a day shift to a night shift, a  
night shift to an evening shift, etc., shall not be construed as a  
change in schedule.  
3. Work schedules will not be posted for employees who normally  
work the same hours within a day shift, Monday to Friday,  
inclusive.  
4. Temporary changes from a regular shift for periods of one (1)  
calendar week or more but less than two (2) calendar weeks,  
within a basic period as defined in Section A4.02B above for  
vacation reliefs, classroom training reliefs or classroom training  
assignments shall be deemed regular shifts and shall be paid for  
at straight-time plus any applicable shift differential. Temporary  
changes for vacation relief shall be deemed to include any  
127  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
  
   
additional days which the employee may take immediately  
preceding or following the employee’s vacation.  
A day shift is a shift starting at or after 6:00 A.M. and prior to 12:00  
noon.  
The evening shift includes shifts starting at or after 12:00 noon and not  
later than 7:00 P.M.  
A night shift is a shift starting after 7:00 P.M. and not later than 12:00  
midnight.  
No shift shall be scheduled to start later than 12:00 midnight or before  
5:00 A.M. No shift shall be scheduled to end after 1:00 A.M. or before  
5:00 A.M. No half-shift shall be scheduled between the hours of 12:00  
midnight and 6:00 A.M.  
Meal period intermission shall normally be one (1) hour. Generally,  
meal period intermissions of less than one (1) hour shall be on the  
basis of an entire work group in the same title classification at a par-  
ticular work location as determined by the Company and the Local  
Union. Where the Company deems it desirable to implement meal  
periods of different lengths, the change will be negotiated with the  
Local Union.  
Meal period intermission may be reduced by mutual agreement  
between the employee and the supervisor.  
1. In those cases where an employee’s scheduled meal period is  
reduced, the employee shall be compensated at the rate of time  
and one-half (1-1/2) for the portion of the scheduled meal period  
the employee works. If the employee prefers, his or her schedule  
shall be adjusted to reflect the reduced meal period and earlier  
quitting time.  
2. In those cases where the employee requests the change, no  
premium payments will be involved.  
Employees working evening and night shifts, and employees working  
on day shifts where the needs of the service require it in the judgment  
of the Company, shall be granted a reasonable meal period on Com-  
pany time. Employees must not leave their work without approval of  
their supervisor.  
The normal workweek shall consist of five (5) scheduled shifts within  
a calendar week or the equivalent in shifts and half-shifts.  
128  
Assignment of scheduled weekend and Holiday work will be on a rota-  
tional basis without regard to the number of charged non-scheduled  
hours. Volunteers for regular Saturday scheduled workdays will be  
given priority for Saturday work. Non-volunteers will be assigned  
scheduled Saturday work on a rotational basis as necessary to provide  
a sufficient work force.  
An employee detailed to work away from headquarters shall be  
allowed reasonable traveling time in excess of that normally required  
to reach headquarters and such time shall be considered as time  
worked.  
### Section A4.03 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS  
A.  
When travel time is paid under the provisions of Article 5, Section  
5.041, Section 5.04J and Section 5.04K of this Contract, employees  
shall be reimbursed for the mileage.  
The Company shall distribute the opportunity to work time which  
requires payment at premium rates as equitably as the needs of the  
service will permit. Representatives of the Company and the Union  
shall endeavor to determine the employee groups which are appropri-  
ate for this purpose. In the event of failure to reach agreement, final  
determination of the appropriate employee groups will be made by the  
highest level below Officer or an authorized representative. The  
provisions of this Section shall not be subject to arbitration.  
1. Lists shall be maintained on an accumulative basis for each  
appropriate employee group showing the distribution in terms of  
equivalent hours separately for 1) scheduled Sunday and Holiday  
work and other scheduled work paid for at the premium rate; 2)  
all non-scheduled work. When time worked during an  
employee’s normal workweek results in premium payments for  
a scheduled day, only the premium portion shall be included in  
the list. Such lists shall be made available in a place mutually  
agreeable for ready inspection by any employee in the group.  
Except as provided for in Article 5, Section 5.04H of this Contract  
unless an employee is given at least forty-eight (48) hours’ notice of  
a change in the days or hours the employee is scheduled to work, the  
employee will be permitted to work the days or hours originally sched-  
uled and any other time which the employee is required to work shall  
be in addition to that originally scheduled.  
129  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
  
   
The foregoing paragraph will not apply under the following  
conditions:  
1. When changes in days to be worked are made at the employee’s  
request, with the approval of supervision.  
2. When changes are made between day, evening or night shifts for  
which a premium is paid.  
3. When an employee is scheduled to work and is excused with pay.  
The same conditions with respect to traveling time as covered in  
Article 5, Section 5.04K of this Contract will apply to all changes in  
starting time when the notification to the employee of such a change  
is made after 11:00 P.M. and prior to 6:00 A.M., unless such  
notification is given the employee while at work.  
### Section A4.04 ASSIGNMENT OF HEADQUARTERS  
A.  
B.  
Co  
Headquarters as used in this Section will be the exchange to which the  
employee is permanently assigned.  
Each employee shall be assigned a headquarters at the time of hire.  
An employee’s headquarters shall not be changed for a period of less  
than six (6) consecutive months except when the change is made at the  
request of the employee.  
Section A4.05 SENIORITY  
A.  
B.  
Seniority, wherever used in this Contract shall mean net credited  
service as shown by the records of the Company.  
The provisions of this Section may be suspended by the highest level  
below Officer or an authorized representative, when it is necessary to  
do so in connection with the protection of service. Should it become  
necessary to invoke this Section, the Union shall be notified as soon  
as it is practicable.  
Seniority shall be considered in the assignment of hours within a shift  
among those qualified employees regularly assigned to the shift.  
The Company shall take seniority into consideration in selecting  
employees for training. Nothing in this provision shall limit the Com-  
pany’s right to select employees for training who, in its judgment, are  
best qualified to receive such training. Neither the provisions of this  
Section nor their application shall be subject to arbitration.  
130  
Whenever two (2) or more shifts which carry the same premium pay-  
ments are scheduled for the same day, employees scheduled to work  
such shifts by the Company may exercise a choice of shifts, at the time  
work schedules are prepared, in the order of their seniority provided  
their job qualifications, as determined by the Company, are adequate  
to meet the demands of the service.  
131  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
p=  
a  
   
### NOTES  
132  
### APPENDIX B  
### SOUTHWESTERN BELL VIDEO SERVICES, INC.  
### DBA PACIFIC BELL HOME ENTERTAINMENT  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
Section B1 The working conditions in this Section apply to South-  
western Bell Video, Inc. DBA Pacific Bell Home Entertainment employees  
who are represented by the Communications Workers of America in the  
following titles:  
Video Installer Warehouse Supplies Attendant  
Customer Service Technician Administrative Clerk  
Headend Technician  
### Section B2 CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS  
These titles will be administered in accordance with the provisions of the  
current collective bargaining agreement between Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell  
and the Communications Workers of America except as modified below or  
as noted in the agreement.  
### Section B2.01 ARTICLE 8 LAYOFFS  
The provisions of Article 8 will not apply. The following layoff provisions  
will be in effect:  
A. Inthe event that the Company determines that a surplus exists and a  
decrease in the work force becomes necessary, the Company will first  
advise the Union in writing with respect to the job title(s) and approx-  
imate numbers of employees affected, the location(s), and the antici-  
pated force disposition date. The affected employee(s) will be notified  
not less than thirty (30) calendar days prior the date the employee(s)  
is to be laid off.  
B. Under the circumstances, set forth in Section B2.01A above, regular  
employees will be given preference, in accordance with their senior-  
ity, subject to their skills and experience, to perform the remaining  
work in the event of a reduction in force. Temporary employees will  
be laid off under these circumstances before applying this seniority  
policy to regular employees.  
133  
>  
a]  
a]  
m  
  
=  
><  
  
   
If a surplus remains after the application of Section B2.01B above, any  
remaining surplus regular employees will be given priority consider-  
ation, by order of seniority, to fill any available lateral or downgrade  
job openings for which they are qualified.  
If a surplus as described in Section B2.01A above, results in the lay-  
off of regular employees the employees will be eligible for a layoff  
allowance in accordance with the following:  
Completed years of  
Continuous Service Layoff Allowance  
One (1) year but less than three (3) years $ 500.00  
Three (3) years or more $1000.00  
Note: “Continuous Service” is defined as the length of continuous,  
active service performed by an employee from the last date on which  
such employee entered the service of the Company and since which  
there has been no break in service.  
### Section B2.02 APPENDIX A WORKING CONDITIONS  
The provisions of this appendix will not apply.  
### Section B2.03 APPENDIX C COMPENSATION, TRANSFER  
### AND UPGRADES  
The provisions of this Appendix will apply except as follows:  
Section C7 — Evening, Night and early Morning Differentials will not  
apply.  
Section B2.04 HOURS OF WORK  
A.  
B.  
C.  
The term shift means hours of work.  
Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, shall constitute  
a full shift.  
Work schedules shall be posted to show the scheduled shifts an  
employee is to work for a two-week period. Work schedules for the  
two-week period will be posted by noon on the Friday preceding the  
start of the two-week period. Changes to work schedules will normally  
be posted with not less than forty-eight (48) hours notice.  
A day shift is a shift starting at or after 5:00 A.M. and prior to 12:00  
noon.  
134  
E. Anevening shift is a shift starting at or after 12:00 noon and not later  
than 7:00 P.M.  
F. shift is a shift starting after 7:00 P.M. and prior to 5:00 A.M.  
G. All shifts will be considered as falling within the calendar day on  
which the shift commences.  
>  
a]  
a]  
m  
  
=  
><  
  
   
H. The workweek shall normally consist of five (5) full shifts within a  
calendar week.  
I. Meal periods shall normally be one (1) hour. Where it is desirable to  
implement meal periods of different lengths, the change will be nego-  
tiated with the Local Union. Meal periods may be adjusted by mutual  
agreement between the employee and the supervisor.  
Meal period intermission may be reduced by mutual agreement  
between the employee and the supervisor.  
1. In those cases where an employee’s scheduled meal period is  
reduced, the employee shall be compensated at the rate of time  
and one-half (1-1/2) for the portion of the scheduled meal period  
the employee works. If the employee prefers, his or her schedule  
shall be adjusted to reflect the reduced meal period and earlier  
quitting time.  
2. In those cases where the employee requests the change, no  
premium payments will be involved.  
Section B2.05 OVERTIME  
A. Employees scheduled to work overtime will be paid in accordance  
with the following :  
1. Hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a day shall be paid  
at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for every such  
hour worked.  
2. Hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a day for four (4) day  
a week employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half  
(1-1/2) hours’ pay for every such hour worked.  
3. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in a day shall be  
paid at the rate of two (2) hours’ pay for every such hour worked.  
135  
4. Hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) hours in a day for four  
(4) day a week employees shall be paid at the rate of two (2)  
hours’ pay for every such hour worked.  
5. Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a workweek shall  
be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for every  
such hour worked.  
Not more than one (1) payment in excess of the basic rate of pay shall  
be paid for any one (1) hour worked.  
B. The Company will endeavor to distribute the opportunity to work  
extra time which requires payment at premium rates as equitably as the  
needs of the service will permit. The Company will determine the  
employee groups which are appropriate for this purpose. No grievance  
arising from the application or interpretation of this Section shall be  
subject to arbitration.  
C. Employees who are assigned standby duty will be paid $100.00 for  
each week of such assignment. This payment shall be in addition to  
any applicable compensation for such duty. In making assignments,  
Management will first ask for volunteers. In the absence of volunteers,  
Management will assign the standby duty in inverse seniority order,  
insofar as the needs of the service and qualifications permit.  
D. Employees who are called for work, which requires their immediate  
services, shall be compensated at the employee’s applicable rate of pay  
(premium, holiday, straight-time, etc.) from the time of notification  
until their return to their residence. The minimum time paid for shall  
be two (2) hours. The minimum payment and travel time home will  
not apply if the time worked immediately precedes the employee’s  
regular scheduled shift and the employee continues working into  
his/her regular shift.  
Immediate services means the employee is able to report to work  
within one (1) hour or less.  
This section does not apply to pre-arranged overtime.  
Section B2.06 SENIORITY  
A. Seniority, wherever used in this Contract, shall mean net credited  
service as shown by the records of the Company.  
136  
B.  
Seniority shall be considered in the assignment of hours within a shift  
among those qualified employees regularly assigned to the shift.  
### Section B2.07 DIFFERENTIALS  
A.  
A night differential shall be paid to employees for each hour, or frac-  
tion thereof, worked between 9:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. in the amount  
of ten (10) percent of the employee’s basic hourly rate.  
A Sunday differential shall be paid to employees for each hour, or frac-  
tion thereof, worked from 12:01 A.M. to 12:00 midnight on Sunday in  
the amount of ten (10) percent.  
### Section B2.08 HEADQUARTERS  
A.  
Headquarters as used in this Section will be a Specified Reporting  
Location (SRL) designated by the Company. Employees may have  
their SRL assignment changed, at the Company’s discretion not more  
than two (2) times per calendar year. The new SRL shall not exceed  
twenty (20) miles from the previously assigned headquarters.  
Headquarters for the purposes of Article 2, Force Allocation, shall be  
defined as the exchange in which the employee’s assigned SRL is  
located.  
### Section B2.09 HOME GARAGING  
A.  
The Home Garaging Program will be implemented within adminis-  
trative work units where the Company determines that certain employ-  
ees who use a Company vehicle for their job may be required to take  
the Company vehicle home as part of their normal responsibilities.  
Employees who participate in the Home Garaging Program will be  
expected to provide normally secure and legal storage of the vehicle  
at the employee’s residence.  
Operating and maintenance costs will be at the Company’s expense.  
The employee is responsible for adhering to preventative maintenance  
and vehicle inspection schedules and arranging for any necessary  
work to be done in accordance with Company procedures.  
The vehicle is to be used solely for Company business and travel  
between the employee’s residence and his/her work location. Only  
properly authorized persons may ride in or operate the vehicle.  
Personal use of the vehicle is prohibited.  
137  
>  
a]  
a]  
m  
  
=  
><  
  
   
For pay treatment purposes, the normal commute for employees who  
home garage a Company vehicle is considered to be sixty (60) minutes  
or less for time spent commuting in each direction, e.g., reporting to  
work and driving home from the last work location. Time spent in  
excess of sixty (60) minutes driving into work and in excess of sixty  
(60) minutes driving home from work will be considered as time  
worked for pay treatment purposes. Employees who home garage a  
Company vehicle and arrive at their first work site before sixty (60)  
minutes have passed from leaving their home will be paid from when  
they begin work at the first work location.  
Employees who home garage a Company vehicle may request  
removal from the home garaging requirement by providing a written  
request to their supervisor. The employee may be relieved of the home  
garaging requirement if the Company approves the request.  
The Company will indemnify and hold harmless from liability,  
employees who are determined to be liable to others as a result of  
simple negligence when using a Company vehicle that is “home  
garaged” in the course and scope of their employment.  
138  
### APPENDIX C  
### COMPENSATION, TRANSFER AND UPGRADES  
### Section C1 INCREASES AND PAYMENTS  
Basic wage increases and payments will be as follows:  
   
Section C1.01 2004 INCREASE 3  
A. General Increase E  
1. Increase Date 4/4/04 ©  
2. All Steps 2.0%  
B. Lump Sum Payment  
Eligible employees will receive a 1% lump sum payment of the  
employee’s annualized (52 weeks) weekly wage rate at time of  
ratification.  
Section C1.02 2005 INCREASE  
A. General Increase  
1. Increase Date 4/3/05  
2. All Steps 2.5%  
### Section C1.03 2006 INCREASE AND PAYMENT  
A. General Increase  
1. Increase Date 4/2/06  
2. All Steps 2.5%  
B. Lump Sum Payment  
Eligible employees will receive a $250.00 lump sum payment by  
4/14/06.  
### Section C1.04 2007 INCREASE AND PAYMENT  
A. General Increase  
1. Increase Date 4/1/07  
2. All Steps 2.25%  
139  
Lump Sum Payment  
Eligible employees will receive a $375.00 lump sum payment by  
4/13/07.  
COLA Increase  
The amount of the April 1, 2007 adjustment shall be 0.7 times the  
increase above two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) in the U.S.  
Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics ‘““CPI-W” (1982-  
84 = 100) for December 2006 over December 2005. It will be  
applied to the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on  
March 31, 2007.  
### Section C1.05 2008 INCREASE AND PAYMENT  
A.  
General Increase  
1. Increase Date 4/6/08  
2. All Steps 2.25%  
Lump Sum Payment  
Eligible employees will receive a $375.00 lump sum payment by  
4/11/08.  
COLA Increase  
The amount of the April 6, 2008 adjustment shall be 0.7 times the  
increase above two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) in the U.S.  
Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics ‘““CPI-W” (1982-  
84 = 100) for December 2007 over December 2006. It will be  
applied to the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on  
April 5, 2008.  
### Section C1.06 MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE  
Any employee on the payroll on the effective date of any of the general  
wage increases will receive, at a minimum, a $5.00 increase in their weekly  
wages even though the applicable wage step on the schedule is increased  
by a lesser amount. The $5.00 weekly minimum will be prorated for part-  
time employees based on their average workweek as of the date of the  
increases.  
140  
### Section C1.07 MINIMUM WAGE RATE  
All employees will be paid at a minimum weekly wage of $290.00 per week.  
For their next progression increase only, employees whose wage rate was  
changed due to the minimum wage rates in this section (C1.07) will receive  
no less than a $10.00 progression increase.  
   
### Section C2 TITLES, WAGE SCHEDULES, TIME-IN-TITLE Pa  
### AND PENSION BANDS mm  
Wage ‘Timein Pension Band Page =  
Titles Schedule Title ZONEE ZONEF ZONEG Nevada Number  
Accounting Associate WS6 12 112 111 110 109 152  
Accounting Specialist WS8 15 114 113 112 111 156  
Administrative Clerk  
(PBHE only) Ws21 12 105 105 104 — 170  
Analyst WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Antenna Technician WS30 36 125 124 123 122 180  
Assignment Administrator WS11 18 121 120 119 118 164  
Building Mechanic WS11 18 121 120 119 118 164  
Building Specialist WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Cable Locator WS9 18 114 113 112 112 158  
Cashier WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Central Office Associate WS5 12 110 109 108 108 150  
Collection Representative WS? 15 113 112 111 110 154  
Collection Representative —  
Bilingual WS7 15 113 112 111 110 154  
Collector WS9 18 114 113 112 112 158  
Combination Technician  
(Nevada Bell) WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Communications Technician WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Company Telecommunications  
Technician WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Computer Operator WS6 12 112 111 110 109 152  
Copy Service Artist WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Customer Associate WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Customer Representative 15 113 112 111 110 154  
Customer Representative —  
Bilingual WS7 15 113 112 111 110 154  
Customer Service Associate © WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Customer Service Technician  
(PBHE only) WS27 18 116 115 114 — 176  
141  
Wage Pension Band Page  
Titles Schedule Title ZONEE ZONEF ZONEG Nevada Number  
Data Entry Associate WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Data Administrator WS6 12 112 111 110 109 152  
Data Specialist WS8 15 114 113 112 111 156  
Driver WS8 15 114 113 112 111 156  
Engineering Administrator WS6 12 112 111 110 109 152  
Engineering Assistant WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Engineering Cost Associate  WS7 15 113 112 111 110 154  
ENOC Technician WS12 8 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Equipment Installation  
Technician WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Equipment Specialist WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Facilities Administrator WS11 18 121 120 119 118 164  
Facilities Technician WS9 18 114 113 112 112 158  
FACS Administrator WS11 18 121 120 119 118 164  
Field Job Administrator WS11 18 121 120 119 118 164  
Garage Attendant WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Garage Mechanic WS11 18 121 120 119 118 164  
Headend Technician  
(PBHE only) WS29 18 121 120 119 — 178  
HR Operations Associate WS5 12 110 109 108 108 150  
Information Processor WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Maintenance Administrator  WS8 15 114 113 112 111 156  
Medical Assistant WS6 12 112 111 110 109 152  
Messenger (Motorized) WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Network Maintenance  
Specialist WS10 18 116 115 114 113 160  
Office Associate WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Operations Administrator WS6 12 112 111 110 109 152  
Operations Specialist WS8 15 114 113 112 111 156  
Operator WS3 9 108 108 107 106 146  
Order Writer WS6 12 112 111 110 109 152  
Outside Plant Technician WS11 18 121 120 119 118 164  
Production Representative WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Provisioning Specialist WS8 1 114 113 112 111 156  
Reports Associate WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
RCMA Administrator WS9 18 114 113 112 112 158  
Sales and Service  
Representative — Bilingual WSX 24 117 116 115 114 162  
Service Assistant WS5 12 110 109 108 108 150  
142  
   
Wage’ Tim Pension Band Page  
Tiles Tile” ZONEE ZONE G Nevada Number  
Service Assistant — Bilingual WS5 12 110 109 108 108 150  
Service Representative WSX 24 117 116 115 114 162  
Services Specialist WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148  
Services Technician WS11 18 121 120 119 118 164  
Splicing Technician WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166 =  
Staff Associate WS4 12 110 109 108 107 148 a  
Supervisor's Assistant WS6 12 112 111 110 109 152 pe  
Supply Service Attendant WS9 18 114 113 112 112 158 =  
Supply Specialist— Nevada  WS10 18 — — — 113 160 or)  
Systems Technician WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Systems Technician —  
Data Communications WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Testing Technician WS12 24 122 121 120 119 166  
Translations Operator WS3 9 108 108 107 106 146  
Video Installer (PBHE Only) WS25 18 110 109 108 — 174  
Warehouse Supplies Attendant  
(PBHE Only) WS23 12 108 107 106 — 172  
Wage Page  
Title Schedule Title Pension Band Number  
Maintenance Notification  
Associate (PBIS-MING Only) WSIS 12 111 168  
143  
### NOTES  
144  
### Section C3 WAGE SCHEDULES  
### Section C3.01 TRANSITION TO NEW WAGE SCHEDULES  
### FROM SUPERSEDED WAGE SCHEDULES  
Effective April 4, 2004  
Effective April 3, 2005  
Effective April 2, 2006  
Effective April 1, 2007  
Effective April 6, 2008  
A. The existing wage schedules for all employees will be increased (by  
step and zone) effective April 4, 2004, April 3, 2005, April 2, 2006,  
April 1, 2007 and April 6, 2008.  
The guidelines for administering these wage rates are as follows:  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
   
1. Employees engaged prior to the effective date of the new wage  
schedule ...  
a. First, should receive any wage adjustment they normally  
would have received (on the old schedule) as of their sched-  
uled increase date.  
b. Should then be placed on the same step of the new Wage Sched-  
ule as they are on the old (e.g., move from Step 6 to Step 6).  
c. Employees should then progress on the new schedule in the  
same manner as on the old schedule, carrying with them the  
time already accrued on that step.  
EXAMPLE: An employee with four (4) months on Step 2  
would move to Step 2 on the new schedule and would  
progress to Step 3 after the completion of two more months.  
2. If an employee is on Short-Term Disability benefits as of one of  
the wage Increase effective dates, wage changes will be made  
effective on the date that the employee returns from absence.  
3. Anemployee hired after one of the wage increases stated above  
becomes effective should be placed on the new wage schedule by  
the appropriate job title, wage zone and, if applicable, wage  
credit, effective on their date of hire.  
4. Inno case should any employee’s wages be increased to a rate  
higher than the top rate of the new appropriate wage schedule.  
145  
### TS  
oOo  
Wage Schedule 3  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
g  
307.50  
347.50  
391.50  
442.00  
499.50  
563.00  
636.00  
17.50  
810.00  
TPA 2,114.00  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
   
108  
Effective April 2004  
   
Zone F  
301.50  
340.00  
384.00  
433.50  
489.50  
553.00  
624.00  
705.00  
795.50  
2,076.50  
108  
Zone G  
292 50  
330.50  
373.50  
421.50  
476.00  
537.00  
606.50  
685.00  
773.00  
2,017.50  
107  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
286.00"  
323.00  
364.50  
411.50  
465.00  
925.00  
592.50  
669.00  
759.50  
1,972.00  
106  
*Subject to Minimum Wage Rate in Section C1.07  
“Translations Operator title receives a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate at all steps.  
2  
3  
4  
  
6  
7  
8  
g  
315.00  
356.00  
401.50  
453.00  
512.00  
977.00  
652.00  
735.50  
830.50  
Zone F  
309.00  
348.50  
393.50  
444 50  
501.50  
567.00  
639.50  
722.50  
815.50  
TPA 2,167.50 2,128.50  
Job  
Titles  
Operator  
Translations Operator**  
Zone G  
300.00  
339.00  
383.00  
432 00  
488.00  
550.50  
621.50  
702.00  
792.50  
2,068.50  
Time in Title  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Effective April 2005  
Effective April 2006  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
293.00  
331.00  
373.50  
422.00  
476.50  
538.00  
607.50  
685.50  
774.50  
2,021.50  
g  
g  
1  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
323.00  
365.00  
411.50  
464.50  
925.00  
991.50  
668.50  
754.00  
851.50  
TPA 2,222.50  
Zone F  
316.50  
357.00  
403.50  
455.50  
514.00  
581.00  
655.50  
740.50  
836.00  
2,182.00  
Zone G  
307.50  
347.50  
392.50  
443.00  
500.00  
564.50  
637.00  
719.50  
812.50  
2,120.50  
Nevada  
300.50  
339.50  
383.00  
432.50  
488.50  
551.50  
622.50  
702.50  
794.00  
2,072.50  
### Wage Schedule 3 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2007 Effective April 2008  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step#ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 330.50 323.50 31450 30750 1 33800 331.00 321.50 314.50  
73.00 365.00 355.50 347.00 381.50 373.00 36350 355.00  
421.00 412.50 401.50 391.50 430.50 422.00 410.50 400.50  
475.00 465.50 453.00 442.00 485.50 476.00 463.00 452.00  
37.00 525.50 511.50 499.50 549.00 537.50 523.00 510.50  
05.00 594.00 577.00 564.00 618.50 607.50 590.00 576.50  
83.50 670.00 651.50 636.50 699.00 685.00 666.00 651.00  
771.00 757.00 735.50 718.50 788.50 774.00 752.00 734.50  
70.50 855.00 831.00 812.00 890.00 874.00 849.50 830.50  
RB 2,231.50 2,169.00 2,119.50 TPA 2,323.00 2,281.00 2,217.00 2,167.50  
~ Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title  
08 108 107 106 Operator 9  
Translations Operator** 9  
“Translations Operator title receives a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate at all steps.  
Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
   
### MN oO LO OO Mm CO DMD  
### MN oO was LO OO Mm CO DMD  
Q-  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
   
### Wage Schedule 4 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 321.00 314.50 305.50 29800 1 329.00 32250 31300 30550 1 337.00 330.50 321.00 313.00  
362.00 355.00 345.00 336.00 2 371.00 364.00 353.50 344.50 380.50 373.00 36250 353.00  
408.50 401.00 389.50 379.50 3 41850 411.00 399.00 389.00 429.00 421.50 409.00 398.50  
461.50 452.50 43950 429.00 4 473.00 464.00 450.50 439.50 485.00 475.50 462.00 450.50  
520.50 511.00 496.00 484.00 5 533.50 524.00 508.50 496.00 547.00 537.00 521.00 508.50  
6  
7  
8  
9  
   
   
   
588.00 577.00 560.50 546.00 602.50 591.50 574.50 559.50 617.50 606.50 589.00 573.50  
663.50 651.00 633.00 617.00 680.00 667.50 649.00 632.50 697.00 684.00 665.00 648.50  
749.00 735.00 714.50 696.50 767.50 753.50 732.50 714.00 786.50 772.50 751.00 732.00  
9 845.50 829.50 807.00 786.50 866.50 850.00 827.00 806.00 9 888.00 871.50 847.50 826.00  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
2,165.00 2,106.50 2,053.00 TPA 2,261.50 2,218.50 2,158.50 2,103.50 7PA2,317.50 2,274.50 2,212.00 2,156.00  
00  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title Job Titles Time in Title  
110 109 108 107 Cashier 12 Messenger (Motorized) 12  
Customer Associate 12 Office Associate I2  
Customer Serv. Assoc. 12 Reports Associate 12  
Data Entry Associate 12 Services Specialist 12  
Garage Attendant 12 Staff Associate 12  
Information Processor 12  
—  
### WK  
oO  
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN oO was LO OO Mm CO DMD  
44.50  
89.00  
438.50  
496.00  
99.50  
1.50  
712.50  
04.00  
08.00  
TPA 2,370.00  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
10  
   
Wage Schedule 4  
Effective April  
Zone F  
338.00  
381.50  
431.00  
486.00  
549.00  
620.00  
699.50  
790.00  
891.00  
2,325.90  
109  
Zone G  
328.00  
370.50  
418.00  
472.50  
532.50  
602.50  
680.00  
768.00  
866.50  
2,261.50  
108  
Nevada  
320.00  
361.00  
407.50  
460.50  
520.00  
586.50  
663.00  
748.50  
844.50  
2,204.00  
107  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
1 352.50 345.50  
398.00 390.00  
448.50 440.50  
507.00 497.00  
972.00 561.50  
645.50 634.00  
728.50 715.00  
822.00 808.00  
928.50 911.00  
A 2,423.50 2,377.50  
### MN oO LO OO Mm CO DMD  
r  
Q-  
Job Titles  
Cashier  
Customer Associate  
Customer Serv. Assoc.  
Data Entry Associate  
Garage Attendant  
Information Processor  
4 Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
Effective April  
Step# ZoneE  ZoneF  
Zone G  
335.50  
379.00  
427.50  
483.00  
544.50  
616.00  
695.50  
785.50  
886.00  
2,312.50  
Nevada  
327.00  
369.00  
416.50  
471.00  
531.50  
599.50  
678.00  
765.50  
863.50  
2,293.00  
Time in Title JobTitle  
12  
12  
12  
12  
12  
12  
Messenger (Motorized)  
Office Associate  
Reports Associate  
Services Specialist  
Staff Associate  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
   
   
Time in Title  
12  
12  
12  
12  
12  
Wage Schedule 5  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
g  
322.00  
363.50  
410.50  
463.50  
923.50  
990.50  
667.00  
793.50  
850.50  
on TPA 2,220.00  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
oO  
   
Assistant-Bilingual title receives a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate to all steps.  
110  
Effective April 2004  
   
Zone F  
315.50  
356.50  
402.50  
454.50  
513.00  
579.50  
654.50  
738.50  
834.00  
2,176.50  
109  
Zone G  
307.00  
347.00  
391.00  
441.50  
499.00  
563.00  
635.50  
717.50  
810.00  
2,114.00  
108  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Effective April 2005  
   
Effective April 2006  
   
Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE  
301.00  
339.50  
383.50  
433.00  
489.00  
992.00  
623.00  
704.00  
794.50  
2,073.50  
108  
330.00 323.50 314.50 308.50  
2 372.50 365.50 355.50 +  
3 421.00 412.50 401.00 393.00  
4 475.00 466.00 452.50 444.00  
5 936.50 526.00 511.50 501.00  
6 605.50 594.00 577.00 566.00  
7 683.50 671.00 651.50 638.50  
8 772.50 757.00 735.50 721.50  
9 872.00 855.00 830.50 814.50  
TPA 2,276.00 2,231.50 2,167.50 2,126.00  
Job Titles Time in Title  
Central Office Associate 12  
HR Operations Associate 12  
Service Assistant 12  
Service Assistant-Bilingual* 12  
1  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
338.50  
382.00  
431.50  
487.00  
990.00  
620.50  
700.50  
792.00  
894.00  
TPA 2,333.50  
Zone F  
331.50  
374.50  
423.00  
477 50  
539.00  
609.00  
688.00  
776.00  
876.50  
2,287.50  
Zone G  
322.50  
364.50  
411.00  
464.00  
524.50  
591.50  
668.00  
754.00  
851.50  
2,222.50  
Nevada  
316.00  
356.50  
403.00  
455.00  
513.50  
580.00  
654.50  
739.50  
835.00  
2,179.50  
### Wage Schedule 5 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS - 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2007 Effective April 2008  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step#ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 346.00 339.00 330.00 323.00 1 354.00 346.50 337.50 330.50  
90.50 383.00 37250 364.50 399.50 391.50 381.00 372.50  
441.00 432.50 420.00 412.00 451.00 442.00 429.50 421.50  
498.00 488.00 474.50 465.00 509.00 499.00 485.00 475.50  
62.50 551.00 536.50 525.00 575.00 563.50 548.50 537.00  
34.50 622.50 605.00 593.00 649.00 636.50 61850 606.50  
716.50 703.50 683.00 669.00 732.50 719.50 69850 684.00  
10.00 79350 771.00 756.00 828.00 811.50 78850 773.00  
14.00 896.00 870.50 854.00 934.50 916.00 890.00 873.00  
on TPA 2,385.50 2,338.50 2,272.00 2,229.00 TPA 2,439.00 2,391.00 2,323.00 2,278.50  
   
### MN oO LO OO Mm CO DMD  
### MN oO was LO OO Mm CO DMD  
Q-  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada _ Time in Title  
10 109 108 108 Central Office Associate 12  
HR Operations Associate 12  
Service Assistant 12  
Service Assistant-Bilingual* 12  
* Service Assistant-Bilingual title receives a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate to all steps.  
‘ Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
### Wage Schedule 6 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 336.50 330.50 321.00 31350 1 345.00 339.00 329.00 32150 1 353.50 347.50 337.00 329.50  
380.00 373.50 362.00 354.00 2 389.50 383.00 371.00 363.00 399.00 392.50 38050 372.00  
42950 421.50 409.00 400.00 3 440.00 432.00 419.00 410.00 451.00 443.00 429.50 420.50  
485.00 476.00 461.50 451.50 4 497.00 48800 473.00 463.00 509.50 500.00 485.00 474.50  
547.50 537.50 521.00 509.00 5 561.00 551.00 534.00 521.50 575.00 565.00 547.50 534.50  
6  
7  
8  
9  
   
   
   
618.50 607.00 588.50 575.00 634.00 622.00 603.00 589.50 650.00 637.50 618.00 604.00  
698.50 685.50 664.00 648.50 716.00 702.50 680.50 664.50 734.00 720.00 697.50 681.00  
789.00 774.00 749.50 732.50 808.50 793.50 768.00 751.00 828.50 813.50 787.00 770.00  
9 891.00 874.00 846.50 826.50 913.50 896.00 867.50 847.00 9 936.50 91850 889.00 868.00  
on TPA 2,325.50 2,281.00 2,209.50 2,157.00 TPA 2,384.00 2,338.50 2,264.00 2,210.50 7PA2,444.50 2,397.50 2,320.50 2,265.50  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title Job Titles Time in Title  
112 111 110 109 Accounting Associate 12 Medical Assistant 12  
Computer Operator 12 Operations Administrator 12  
Data Administrator 12 Order Writer 12  
Engineering Administrator 12 Supervisor's Assistant 12  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
—  
O1  
oo  
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN oO was LO OO Mm CO DMD  
1.50  
408.00  
461.00  
1.00  
88.00  
64.50  
750.50  
47.00  
97.90  
TPA 2,499.00  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
12  
   
Wage Schedule 6  
Effective April  
Zone F  
355.50  
401.50  
453.00  
511.50  
577.50  
652.00  
736.00  
832.00  
939.00  
2,451.00  
111  
Zone G  
344.50  
389.00  
439.00  
496.00  
560.00  
632.00  
713.00  
804.50  
909.00  
2,3/2.50  
110  
Nevada  
337.00  
380.50  
430.00  
485.00  
546.50  
617.50  
696.50  
787.50  
887.50  
2,316.50  
109  
1  
### MN oO LO OO Mm CO DMD  
r  
Q-  
   
369.50  
417.00  
471.50  
932.90  
601.00  
679.50  
767.50  
866.00  
979.00  
Job Titles  
Accounting Associate  
Computer Operator  
Data Administrator  
Engineering Administrator  
‘ Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Zone F  
363.50  
410.50  
463.00  
523.00  
590.50  
666.50  
752.50  
850.50  
960.00  
A 2,999.00 2,505.50  
Effective April  
Step# Zone E  
Zone G  
352.50  
398.00  
449.00  
507.00  
572.50  
646.00  
729.00  
822.50  
929.50  
2,426.00  
Nevada  
344.50  
389.00  
439.50  
496.00  
559.00  
631.50  
712.00  
805.00  
907.50  
2,368.50  
Time in Title Job Titles  
12  
12  
12  
12  
Medical Assistant  
Operations Administrator  
Order Writer  
Supervisor's Assistant  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
   
   
Time in Title  
12  
12  
12  
12  
### Wage Schedule 7 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 348.50 341.00 331.00 32450 1 357.00 34950 33950 33250 1 366.00 358.00 34800 341.00  
393.00 385.00 374.00 366.00 2 403.00 394.50 383.50 375.00 413.00 404.50 393.00 384.50  
443.50 43450 422.00 413.50 3 45450 445.50 432.50 424.00 466.00 456.50 443.50 434.50  
501.00 490.50 476.50 467.00 4 513.50 503.00 488.50 478.50 526.50 515.50 500.50 490.50  
565.00 554.00 538.00 527.50 5 579.00 568.00 551.50 540.50 593.50 582.00 565.50 554.00  
6  
7  
8  
9  
   
   
   
638.00 625.50 607.50 595.50 654.00 641.00 62250 610.50 670.50 657.00 638.00 626.00  
720.00 706.00 686.00 672.50 738.00 723.50 703.00 689.50 796.50 741.50 720.50 706.50  
813.00 797.00 774.00 759.50 833.50 817.00 793.50 778.50 894.50 837.50 813.50 798.00  
9 917.50 899.50 874.00 858.00 940.50 922.00 896.00 879.50 9 964.00 945.00 918.50 901.50  
on TPA 2,394.50 2,347.50 2,281.00 2,239.50 TPA 2,454.50 2,406.50 2,338.50 2,295.50 7PA2,516.00 2,466.50 2,397.50 2,353.00  
* Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title Job Titles Time in Title  
113 112 111 110 Collection Representative 15 Customer Representative—Bilingual* 15  
Collection Representative-Bilingual* 15 Engineering Cost Associate 15  
Customer Representative 15  
Representative-Bilingual and Customer Representative-Bilingual titles receive a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate to all steps.  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
—  
Oo  
o1  
Step# Zone E  
1 374.00  
422.50  
476.50  
38.50  
07.00  
85.50  
773.50  
73.50  
85.50  
TPA 2,572.00  
### MN oO was LO OO Mm CO DMD  
   
Wage Schedule 7  
Effective April  
Zone F  
366.00  
413.50  
467.00  
527.00  
595.00  
672.00  
758.00  
856.50  
966.50  
2,022.50  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
13  
112  
Zone G  
356.00  
402.00  
453.50  
512.00  
578.00  
652.50  
736.50  
832.00  
939.00  
2,451.00  
111  
Nevada  
348.50  
393.00  
444 50  
501.50  
566.50  
640.00  
722.50  
816.00  
922.00  
2,406.50  
110  
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
g  
   
382.50  
432.00  
487.00  
990.50  
620.50  
701.00  
791.00  
893.00  
1007.50  
Zone F  
374.00  
423.00  
477.50  
539.00  
608.50  
687.00  
775.00  
876.00  
988.00  
TPA 2,629.50 2,578.50  
Job Titles  
Collection Represen  
Collection Represen  
tativ  
tativ  
Customer Representative  
* Collection Representative-Bilingual and Customer Representative-Bilingual titles receive a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate to all steps.  
‘Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
e  
e-Bilingual* 15  
Zone G  
364.00  
411.00  
463.50  
523.50  
591.00  
667.00  
753.00  
850.50  
960.00  
2,905.90  
Time in Title Job Titles  
Nevada  
356.50  
402.00  
454.50  
513.00  
579.00  
654.50  
739.00  
834.50  
942.50  
2,460.00  
15  
15  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Effective April  
Step# Zone E  
   
   
Time in Title  
Customer Representative—Bilingual* 15  
Engineering Cost Associate 15  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
156  
### Wage Schedule 8 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 326.00 319.50 311.50 30500 1 334.00 32750 31950 31250 1 34250 335.50 32750 320.50  
362.50 355.00 346.50 339.00 2 371.50 364.00 355.00 347.50 381.00 373.00 364.00 356.00  
403.00 39450 385.00 377.00 3 413.00 404.50 394.50 386.50 423.50 414.50 404.50 396.00  
448.50 439.00 42850 419.00 4 459.50 450.00 439.00 429.50 471.00 461.50 450.00 440.00  
498.50 48850 476.50 466.00 5 511.00 500.50 488.50 477.50 524.00 513.00 500.50 489.50  
6  
7  
8  
   
   
   
994.00 543.00 529.50 518.50 968.00 556.50 542.50 531.50 982.00 570.50 556.00 545.00  
616.00 604.00 588.50 576.50 631.50 619.00 603.00 591.00 647.50 634.50 618.00 606.00  
685.00 671.50 654.50 641.00 702.00 688.50 671.00 657.00 719.50 705.50 688.00 673.50  
9 762.00 747.00 728.00 71300 9 781.00 76550 746.00 731.00 9 80050 784.50 76450 749.50  
10 847.00 831.00 809.50 79250 10 868.00 852.00 82950 81250 10 889.50 873.50 850.00 833.00  
11 942.00 924.00 899.50 88150 11 965.50 947.00 92200 90350 11 989.50 970.50 945.00 926.00  
TPA 2,458.50 2,411.50 2,347.50 2,300.50 TPA 2,520.00 2,471.50 2,406.50 2,358.00 7PA2,582.50 2,533.00 2,466.50 2,417.00  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title Job Titles Time in Title  
114 113 112 111 Accounting Specialist 15 Maintenance Administrator 15  
Data Specialist 15 Operations Specialist 15  
Driver 15 Provisioning Specialist 15  
Wage Schedule 8  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
157  
50.00  
89.50  
433.00  
481.50  
36.00  
95.00  
62.00  
735.50  
18.50  
09.50  
1012.00  
TPA 2,641.50  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
   
14  
   
Effective April  
Zone F  
343.00  
381.50  
424 00  
472.00  
524.50  
583.50  
649.00  
721.50  
802.00  
893.00  
992.50  
2,990.50  
113  
Zone G  
335.00  
372.00  
413.50  
460.00  
512.00  
568.50  
632.00  
703.50  
781.50  
869.00  
966.50  
2,922.90  
112  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
327.50  
364.00  
405.00  
450.00  
500.50  
997.90  
619.50  
688.50  
766.50  
851.50  
947.00  
2,471.50  
111  
### oD FLO CO Mm  
358.00  
398.50  
442.50  
492.50  
548.00  
608.50  
677.00  
752.00  
837.00  
930.00  
1035.00  
A 2,701.50 2,649.00  
Job Titles  
Accounting Specialist  
Data Specialist  
Driver  
4 Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
Zone F  
350.50  
390.00  
433.50  
482.50  
536.50  
596.50  
663.50  
737.50  
820.00  
913.00  
1015.00  
Effective April 2008  
Zone G  
342.50  
380.50  
423.00  
470.50  
523.50  
581.50  
646.00  
719.50  
799.00  
888.50  
988.00  
  
Time in Title Job Titles  
Nevada  
335.00  
372.00  
414.00  
460.00  
512.00  
570.00  
633.50  
704.00  
783.50  
870.50  
968.50  
2,928.00  
15  
15  
15  
Time in Title  
Maintenance Administrator 15  
Operations Specialist 15  
Provisioning Specialist 15  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
158  
### Wage Schedule 9 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 329.50 323.00 315.00 30950 1 33750 331.00 32300 317.00 1 346.00 339.50 331.00 325.00  
366.00 359.00 350.50 34450 2 375.00 368.00 359.50 353.00 384.50 377.00 36850 362.00  
407.50 399.50 389.50 382.50 3 417.50 409.50 399.00 392.00 428.00 419.50 409.00 402.00  
453.00 443.50 43350 425.50 4 464.50 454.50 44450 436.00 476.00 466.00 455.50 447.00  
503.50 493.50 482.00 473.50 5 516.00 506.00 494.00 485.50 529.00 518.50 506.50 497.50  
6  
7  
8  
   
   
   
560.00 549.00 536.00 526.00 974.00 562.50 549.50 539.00 988.50 576.50 563.00 582.50  
622.00 610.00 595.50 585.00 637.50 625.50 610.50 599.50 653.50 641.00 626.00 614.50  
692.00 678.50 662.50 650.50 709.50 695.50 679.00 667.00 727.00 713.00 696.00 683.50  
9 769.50 754.50 736.50 72250 9 78850 77350 755.00 74050 9 808.00 793.00 774.00 759.00  
10 855.50 819.00 80400 10 877.00 860.00 83950 82400 10 899.00 881.50 860.50 844.50  
11 951.00 911.00 89350 11 975.00 956.50 93400 916.00 11 999.50 980.50 957.50 939.00  
TPA 2,482.00 2,435.00 2,377.50 2,332.00 TPA 2,545.00 2,496.50 2,437.50 2,391.00 7PA2,608.50 2,559.00 2,499.00 2,451.00  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title Job Titles Time in Title  
114 113 112 112 Cable Locator 18 RCMA Administrator 18  
Collector 18 Supply Service Attendant 18  
Facilities Technician 18  
Wage Schedule 9  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
159  
54.00  
93.00  
437.50  
486.50  
1.00  
1.50  
68.00  
743.50  
26.00  
19.00  
1022.00  
TPA 2,667.50  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
   
14  
   
Effective April  
Zone F  
347.00  
385.50  
429.00  
476.50  
530.00  
589.50  
655.50  
729.00  
811.00  
901.50  
1002.50  
2,616.50  
113  
Zone G  
338.50  
377.00  
418.00  
465.50  
518.00  
575.50  
640.00  
711.50  
791.50  
880.00  
979.00  
2,999.00  
112  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
332.50  
370.00  
411.00  
457.00  
508.50  
569.00  
628.50  
699.00  
776.00  
863.50  
960.00  
2,905.50  
112  
362.00  
402.00  
447.50  
497.50  
593.00  
615.00  
683.00  
760.00  
844.50  
939.50  
1045.00  
### oD FLO CO Mm  
Zone F  
355.00  
394.00  
438.50  
487.00  
542.00  
603.00  
670.00  
745.50  
829.00  
922.00  
1025.00  
A 2,727.50 2,675.50  
Job Titles  
Cable Locator  
Collector  
Facilities Technician  
4 Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
Effective April 2008  
Zone G  
346.00  
385.50  
427.50  
476.00  
529.50  
588.50  
654.50  
727.50  
809.50  
900.00  
1001.00  
2,612.50  
Nevada  
340.00  
378.50  
420.00  
467.50  
520.00  
577.50  
642.50  
714.50  
793.50  
883.00  
981.50  
2,961.50  
Time in Title Job Titles  
18  
18  
18  
RCMA Administrator  
Supply Service Attendant  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
Time in Title  
18  
18  
Wage Schedule 10  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
g  
   
377.  
426.  
481.  
942.  
612  
691.  
780.  
880.  
993.  
50  
00  
00  
50  
50  
00  
00  
50  
50  
o  /PA2,593.00  
oS  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
116  
Effective April 2004  
   
Zone F  
370.00  
417.00  
471.00  
532.00  
600.50  
678.00  
765.00  
864.00  
975.00  
2,945.00  
115  
Zone G  
359.00  
405.50  
457.50  
516.50  
583.00  
658.50  
743.00  
839.00  
947.00  
2,471.50  
114  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
348.00  
392.50  
443.50  
501.00  
569.50  
638.50  
721.00  
814.50  
919.50  
2,400.00  
113  
2  
3  
4  
  
6  
7  
8  
g  
387.00  
436.50  
493.00  
596.00  
628.00  
708.50  
799.50  
902.50  
1018.50  
Zone F  
379.50  
427 50  
483.00  
545.50  
615.50  
695.00  
784.00  
885.50  
999.50  
TPA 2,658.50 2,608.50  
Job  
Titles  
Zone G  
368.00  
415.50  
469.00  
529.50  
597.50  
675.00  
761.50  
860.00  
970.50  
2,933.00  
Time in Title  
Network Maintenance Specialist  
Supply Specialist — Nevada  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Effective April 2005  
Effective April 2006  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
356.50  
402.50  
454.50  
913.50  
579.50  
654.50  
739.00  
835.00  
942.50  
2,460.00  
18  
18  
1  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
g  
396.50  
447.50  
905.50  
970.00  
643.50  
726.00  
819.50  
925.00  
1044.00  
TPA 2,725.00  
Zone F  
389.00  
438.00  
495.00  
559.00  
631.00  
712.50  
803.50  
907.50  
1024.50  
2,674.00  
Zone G  
377.00  
426.00  
480.50  
542.50  
612.50  
692.00  
780.50  
881.50  
995.00  
2,997.00  
Nevada  
365.50  
412.50  
466.00  
526.50  
594.00  
671.00  
757.50  
856.00  
966.00  
2,921.50  
### Wage Schedule 10 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2007 Effective April 2008  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step#ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 405.50 398.00 38550 37350 1 41450 407.00 394.00 382.00  
2 45750 448.00 435.50 42200 2 468.00 458.00 44550 431.50  
3 517.00 506.00 491.50 47650 3 528.50 517.50 50250 487.00  
4 583.00 571.50 55450 53850 4 596.00 58450 567.00 550.50  
   
742.50 728.50 707.50 686.00 759.00 745.00 723.50 701.50  
38.00 821.50 798.00 774.50 857.00 840.00 816.00 792.00  
46.00 928.00 901.50 875.50 967.50 949.00 922.00 895.00  
1067.50 1047.50 1017.50 987.50 1091.50 1071.00 1040.50 1009.50  
o  /PA2,/86.00 2,734.00 2,655.50 2,577.50 TPA 2,849.00 2,795.50 2,715.50 2,635.00  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada _ Job Titles Time in Title  
16 115 114 113 Network Maintenance Specialist 18  
Supply Specialist — Nevada 18  
Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
Wage Schedule X  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
g  
377.  
428.  
485.  
500.  
624.  
708.  
802.  
911  
1033.  
50  
00  
50  
50  
00  
00  
50  
00  
00  
o  /PA2,696.00  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
### NO  
   
117  
Effective April 2004  
   
Zone F  
370.00  
419.00  
476.00  
540.00  
612.50  
694.50  
788.00  
894.00  
1014.50  
2,648.00  
116  
Zone G  
359.00  
407.50  
462.00  
524.50  
594.50  
674.50  
765.00  
868.00  
985.00  
  
115  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Effective April 2005  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
348.00  
394.50  
448.00  
508.00  
977.00  
654.50  
742.50  
842.50  
955.50  
2,494.00  
114  
387.00  
2 438.50  
3 497.50  
4 964.50  
5 639.50  
6 725.50  
7 822.50  
8 934.00  
9 1059.00  
Zone F  
379.50  
429.50  
488.00  
553.50  
628.00  
712.00  
807.50  
916.50  
1040.00  
TPA 2,764.00 2,714.50  
Job Titles  
Zone G  
368.00  
417.50  
473.50  
537.50  
609.50  
691.50  
784.00  
889.50  
1009.50  
2,635.00  
Effective April 2006  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
356.50  
404.50  
459.00  
920.50  
991.50  
671.00  
761.00  
863.50  
979.50  
2,996.90  
Sales and Service Representative — Bilingual*  
Service Representative  
*Sales and Service Representative—Bilingual receives a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate to all steps.  
1  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
g  
396.50  
449.50  
510.00  
978.50  
655.50  
743.50  
843.00  
957.50  
1085.50  
TPA 2,833.00  
Time in Title  
24  
24  
Zone F  
389.00  
440.00  
500.00  
567.50  
643.50  
730.00  
827.50  
939.50  
1066.00  
2,782.50  
Zone G  
377.00  
428.00  
485.50  
551.00  
624.50  
709.00  
803.50  
911.50  
1034.50  
2,700.00  
Nevada  
365.50  
414.50  
470.50  
533.50  
606.50  
688.00  
780.00  
885.00  
1004.00  
2,620.50  
### Wage Schedule X TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2007 Effective April 2008  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step#ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 405.50 398.00 38550 37350 1 41450 407.00 394.00 382.00  
2 45950 450.00 437.50 424.00 2 470.00 460.00 447.50 433.50  
3 1.50 511.50 496.50 481.00 3 533.00 523.00 507.50 492.00  
4 1.50 580.50 563.50 54550 4 605.00 59350 576.00 558.00  
   
760.00 746.50 725.00 703.50 777.00 763.50 741.50 = 719.50  
62.00 846.00 821.50 797.50 881.50 865.00 840.00 815.50  
79.00 960.50 932.00 905.00 1001.00 982.00 953.00 925.50  
1110.00 1090.00 1058.00 1026.50 9 1135.00 1114.50 1082.00 1049.50  
ao  /PA2,897.00 2,845.00 2,761.50 2,679.00 TPA 2,962.50 2,909.00 2,824.00 2,739.00  
° Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title  
17 116 115 114 Sales and Service Representative — Bilingual” 24  
Service Representative 24  
*Sales and Service Representative-Bilingual receives a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate to all steps.  
Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
   
164  
Wage Schedule 11  
Effective April 2004  
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
388.00  
431.50  
480.00  
933.50  
593.50  
660.00  
734.00  
816.00  
907.50  
1009.00  
1122.00  
TPA 2,928.50  
Pension Bands:  
121  
   
Zone F  
381.00  
424 00  
471.00  
524.00  
582.50  
647.50  
720.50  
801.00  
891.00  
990.50  
1101.50  
2,875.00  
120  
Zone G  
371.00  
412.00  
458.50  
510.00  
566.50  
630.50  
700.50  
779.50  
866.50  
963.50  
1071.50  
2,796.50  
119  
Nevada  
364.00  
405.00  
450.50  
501.00  
556.50  
619.00  
688.50  
765.50  
851.00  
946.00  
1052.00  
2,745.50  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
118  
Step#  
1  
2  
3  
4  
  
6  
/  
8  
g  
10  
11  
### TIME IN  
### TERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Effective April 2005  
   
Zone E  
397.50  
442 50  
492.00  
547.00  
608.50  
676.50  
752.50  
836.50  
930.00  
1034.00  
1150.00  
Zone F  
390.50  
434.50  
483.00  
537.00  
597.00  
663.50  
738.50  
821.00  
913.50  
1015.50  
1129.00  
TPA 3,001.50 2,946.50  
Job Titles  
Assignment Administrator  
Building Mechanic  
Facilities Administrator  
FACS Administrator*  
*FACS Administrator receives a $5/week basic wage job differential at top step.  
Zone G  
380.50  
422.50  
470.00  
523.00  
580.50  
646.50  
718.00  
799.00  
888.00  
987.50  
1098.50  
2,867.00  
Effective April 2006  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
373.00  
415.00  
462.00  
913.50  
970.50  
634.50  
705.50  
784.50  
872.50  
969.50  
1078.50  
2,815.00  
1  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
407.50  
453.50  
904.50  
560.50  
623.50  
693.50  
771.50  
897.50  
953.50  
1060.00  
1179.00  
TPA 3,077.00  
Time in Title Job Titles  
Field Job Administrator  
Garage Mechanic  
Outside Plant Tech  
Services Technician  
18  
18  
18  
18  
Zone F  
400.50  
445 50  
495.00  
550.50  
612.00  
680.00  
757.00  
841.50  
936.50  
1041.00  
1157.00  
3,020.00  
ZoneG Nevada  
390.00 382.50  
433.00 425.50  
482.00 473.50  
536.00 526.50  
595.00 585.00  
662.50 650.50  
736.00 723.00  
819.00 804.00  
910.00 894.50  
1012.00 993.50  
1126.00 1105.50  
2,939.00 2,885.50  
Time in Title  
18  
18  
18  
18  
Wage Schedule 11  
Effective April  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
165  
416.50  
463.50  
16.00  
73.00  
37.50  
709.00  
789.00  
77.00  
75.00  
1084.00  
1205.50  
TPA 3,146.50  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
   
21  
   
Zone F  
409.50  
455.50  
506.00  
563.00  
626.00  
695.50  
774.00  
860.50  
957.50  
1064.50  
1183.00  
3,087.50  
120  
Zone G  
399.00  
442 50  
493.00  
548.00  
608.50  
677.50  
752.50  
837.50  
930.50  
1035.00  
1151.50  
3,005.50  
119  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
391.00  
435.00  
484.00  
938.50  
598.00  
665.00  
739.50  
822.00  
914.50  
1016.00  
1130.50  
2,950.50  
118  
426.00  
474.00  
927.90  
586.00  
652.00  
725.00  
807.00  
896.50  
997.00  
1108.50  
1232.50  
### oD FLO CO Mm  
Zone F  
418.50  
465.50  
517.50  
575.50  
640.00  
711.00  
791.50  
880.00  
979.00  
1088.50  
1209.50  
A 3,217.00 3,157.00  
Job Titles  
Assignment Administrator  
Building Mechanic  
Facilities Administrator  
FACS Administrator*  
* FACS Administrator receives a $5/week basic wage job differential at top step.  
‘Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
Effective April 2008  
Zone G  
408.00  
452.50  
504.00  
560.50  
622.00  
692.50  
769.50  
856.50  
951.50  
1058.50  
1177.50  
3,073.50  
Nevada  
400.00  
445.00  
495.00  
550.50  
611.50  
680.00  
756.00  
840.50  
935.00  
1039.00  
1156.00  
3,017.00  
Time in Title Job Titles  
18  
18  
18  
18  
Field Job Administrator  
Garage Mechanic  
Outside Plant Tech  
Services Technician  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
Time in Title  
18  
18  
18  
18  
166  
### Wage Schedule 12 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 402.50 394.00 383.50 37550 1 41250 404.00 393.00 38500 1 423.00 414.00 403.00 394.50  
44750 43850 426.50 417.50 2 45850 449.50 437.00 428.00 470.00 460.50 448.00 438.50  
498.00 487.50 47450 464.00 3 510.50 499.50 486.50 475.50 523.50 512.00 498.50 487.50  
553.50 542.00 527.50 516.50 4 567.50 555.50 540.50 529.50 581.50 569.50 554.00 542.50  
615.00 603.00 586.50 57450 5 630.50 618.00 601.00 589.00 646.50 633.50 616.00 603.50  
6  
7  
8  
   
   
   
684.00 670.00 652.50 639.00 701.00 687.00 669.00 655.00 718.50 704.00 685.50 671.50  
760.50 745.00 725.00 710.50 779.50 763.50 743.00 728.50 799.00 782.50 761.50 746.50  
845.50 829.00 806.50 790.50 866.50 849.50 826.50 810.50 888.00 870.50 847.00 831.00  
9 940.50 921.50 896.50 87850 9 96400 94450 919.00 90050 9 988.00 968.00 942.00 923.00  
10 1045.50 1024.50 997.00 977.50 10 1071.50 1050.00 1022.00 1002.00 10 1098.50 1076.50 1047.50 1027.00  
11 1163.00 1139.50 1108.50 1087.50 11 1192.00 1168.00 1136.00 111450 11 1222.00 1197.00 116450 1142.50  
TPA 3,035.50 2,974.00 2,893.00 2,838.50  7PA 3,111.00 3,048.50 2,965.00 2,909.00 7PA3,189.50 3,124.00 3,039.50 2,982.00  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title Job Titles Time in Title  
122 121 120 119 Analyst 24 Equipment Specialist 24  
Building Specialist 24 ENOC Technician 24  
Combination Technician (Nevada Only) 24 Production Rep. 24  
Communications Technician 24 Splicing Technician 24  
Company Telecom Technician 24 Systems Technician 24  
Copy Service Artist 24 Systems Technician —  
ngineering Assistant 24 Data Communications 24  
Equip. Installation Tech. 24 Testing Technician 24  
Wage Schedule 12  
Effective April  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
167  
432.50  
480.50  
39.90  
94.50  
1.00  
734.50  
17.00  
08.00  
1010.00  
1123.00  
1249.50  
TPA 3,261.00  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
   
22  
   
Zone F  
423.50  
471.00  
523.50  
582.50  
648.00  
720.00  
800.00  
890.00  
990.00  
1100.50  
1224.00  
3,194.50  
121  
Zone G  
412.00  
458.00  
509.50  
566.50  
630.00  
701.00  
778.50  
866.00  
963.00  
1071.00  
1190.50  
3,107.00  
120  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
403.50  
448.50  
498.50  
994.90  
617.00  
686.50  
763.50  
849.50  
944.00  
1050.00  
1168.00  
3,048.50  
119  
442.00  
491.50  
947.50  
608.00  
676.00  
751.00  
835.50  
928.50  
1032.50  
1148.50  
1277.50  
od SWF LD oO Mm  
Zone F  
433.00  
481.50  
535.50  
595.50  
662.50  
736.00  
818.00  
910.00  
1012.50  
1125.50  
1251.50  
A 3,334.50 3,266.50  
Job Titles  
Analyst  
Building Specialist  
Combination Technician (Nevada Only) 24  
Communications Technician  
Company Telecom Technician  
Copy Service Artist  
Engineering Assistant  
Equip. Installat  
4 Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
ion Tech.  
Effective April 2008  
Zone G  
421.50  
468.50  
521.00  
579.00  
644.00  
717.00  
796.00  
885.50  
984.50  
1095.00  
1217.50  
3,177.50  
Nevada  
412.50  
458.50  
509.50  
567.00  
631.00  
702.00  
780.50  
868.50  
965.00  
1073.50  
1194.50  
3,117.50  
Time in Title Job Titles  
24  
24  
24  
24  
24  
24  
24  
Equipment Specialist  
ENOC Technician  
Production Rep.  
Splicing Technician  
Systems Technician  
Systems Technician —  
Data Communications  
Testing Technician  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
Time in Title  
24  
24  
24  
24  
24  
24  
24  
### Wage Schedule IS 1 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# Step# Step#  
1 400.00 1 410.00 1 420.50  
441.50 2 452.50 464.00  
488.00 500.00 512.50  
539.00 552.50 566.50  
595.00 610.00 625.50  
657.50 674.00 691.00  
726.00 744.00 762.50  
802.00 822.00 842.50  
886.50 9 908.50 9 931.00  
o TPA 2,371.00 TPA 2,430.00  
> Pension Band Job Titles Time in Title  
111 Maintenance Notification Associate 12  
   
   
   
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
od sw LO CO Mm CO  
od =F LO CO Mm CO  
   
   
### APPENDIX C  
   
"19 UI ¥109 0} anp Aew syunowy y  
### Z| UOIJROIJNON) LLL  
Ul gor pueguolsuad  
0S hdl ©  
0S6/6 6 00°766 6  
00188 8 0S'198 8  
00262 2 0s6/2 2  
9 9  
§  
0026S 006/S 1  
oo9ss 6 § §  
00S8r 2 2  
ok 000s |  
#0815  
   
v800¢ [HOV [Hay eAloe}}4  
   
### SHLNOW 9 —- WAYALNI ANIL L Sl obem  
Wage Schedule PBHE 21  
   
Effective April 2004  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
g  
   
459.00  
486.50  
915.50  
546.00  
579.00  
613.50  
650.50  
689.00  
730.50  
=  
oO  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
105  
Zone F  
450.00  
477.00  
505.50  
535.50  
567.50  
602.00  
638.00  
676.50  
716.50  
1,870.00  
105  
Zone G  
437.00  
463.00  
491.00  
520.00  
552.00  
584.50  
619.50  
657.00  
696.00  
1,816.50  
104  
   
Step# Zone E  
2  
3  
4  
  
6  
7  
8  
g  
470.50  
498.50  
528.90  
599.50  
593.50  
629.00  
667.00  
706.00  
749.00  
Zone F  
461.50  
489.00  
518.00  
549.00  
581.50  
617.00  
654.00  
693.50  
734.50  
TPA 1,955.00 1,917.00  
Job Titles  
Administrative Clerk  
Zone G  
448 00  
474.50  
503.50  
533.00  
566.00  
599.00  
635.00  
673.50  
713.50  
1,862.00  
Time in Title  
12  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Effective April 2005  
Effective April 2006  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
482.50  
511.00  
941.50  
973.50  
608.50  
644.50  
683.50  
723.50  
767.50  
TPA 2,003.00  
Zone F  
473.00  
501.00  
531.00  
562.50  
596.00  
632.50  
670.50  
711.00  
753.00  
1,965.50  
Zone G  
459.00  
486.50  
516.00  
546.50  
580.00  
614.00  
651.00  
690.50  
731.50  
1,909.00  
Wage Schedule PBHE 21 | tive interval BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April Effective April  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
1 493.50 483.50 469.50 1 504.50 494.50 480.00  
22.50 512.50 497.50 534.50 524.00 508.50  
53.50 543.00 527.50 566.00 555.00 539.50  
86.50 575.00 559.00 599.50 588.00 571.50  
22.00 609.50 593.00 636.00 623.00 606.50  
59.00 646.50 628.00 674.00 661.00 642.00  
99.00 685.50 665.50 714.50 701.00 680.50  
740.00 727.00 706.00 756.50 743.50 722.00  
785.00 770.00 748.00 802.50 787.50 765.00  
~ TPA 2,049.00 2,009.50 1,952.50 TPA 2,094.50 2,055.50 1,996.50  
   
### MN oO LO OO Mm CO DMD  
### MN oO was LO OO Mm CO DMD  
Q-  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Job Titles Time in Title  
05 105 104 Administrative Clerk 12  
4 Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
Wage Schedule PBHE 23  
   
Effective April 2004  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
172  
478.50  
503.50  
530.00  
598.00  
987.50  
618.00  
651.00  
685.00  
721.00  
759.50  
799.00  
TPA 2,085.50  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
   
108  
Zone F  
469.00  
493.50  
519.50  
547.00  
576.00  
606.50  
638.00  
671.50  
707.00  
744.00  
783.50  
2,045.00  
107  
Zone G  
456.00  
480.00  
505.00  
531.50  
559.50  
589.00  
619.50  
652.50  
686.50  
722.50  
760.50  
1,985.00  
106  
Step#  
1  
2  
3  
4  
  
6  
/  
8  
9  
10  
11  
### TIME |  
   
Zone E  
490.50  
516.00  
543.50  
572.00  
602.00  
633.50  
667.50  
702.00  
739.00  
778.50  
819.00  
Zone F  
480.50  
506.00  
532.50  
560.50  
590.50  
621.50  
654.00  
688.50  
724.50  
762.50  
803.00  
TPA 2,137.50 2,096.00  
Job Titles  
Warehouse Supplies Attendant  
Zone G  
467.50  
492.00  
517.50  
545.00  
573.50  
603.50  
635.00  
669.00  
703.50  
740.50  
779.50  
2,034.50  
Time in Title  
12  
### NTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS - 6 MONTHS  
Effective April 2005  
Effective April 2006  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
503.00  
529.00  
997.00  
586.50  
617.00  
649.50  
684.00  
719.50  
797.50  
798.00  
839.50  
TPA 2,191.00  
Zone F  
492.50  
518.50  
546.00  
574.50  
605.50  
637.00  
670.50  
705.50  
742.50  
781.50  
823.00  
2,148.00  
Zone G  
479.00  
504.50  
530.50  
558.50  
588.00  
618.50  
651.00  
685.50  
721.00  
759.00  
799.00  
2,085.50  
173  
Wage Schedule PBHE 23 | time interval BETWEEN STEPS —6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April Effective April  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
1 514.50 503.50 490.00 1 526.00 515.00 501.00  
1.00 530.00 516.00 2 593.00 542.00 527.50  
69.50 558.50 542.50 582.50 571.00 554.50  
99.50 587.50 571.00 613.00 600.50 584.00  
1.00 619.00 601.00 645.00 633.00 614.50  
64.00 651.50 632.50 679.00 666.00 646.50  
99.50 685.50 665.50 715.00 701.00 680.50  
735.50 721.50 701.00 752.00 737.50 717.00  
9 77450 759.00 737.00 9 792.00 776.00 753.50  
10 816.00 799.00 776.00 10 834.50 817.00 793.50  
11 858.50 841.50 817.00 11 878.00 860.50 835.50  
TPA 2,240.50 2,196.50 2,132.50 TPA 2,291.50 2,246.00 2,180.50  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Job Titles Time in Title  
08 107 106 Warehouse Supplies Attendant 12  
‘ Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
   
   
### oD FLO CO Mm  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
   
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
Wage Schedule PBHE 25  
   
Effective April 2004  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
174  
528.50  
994.00  
580.50  
608.50  
637.50  
668.00  
700.00  
734.00  
769.00  
806.00  
844.50  
TPA 2,204.00  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
   
110  
Zone F  
518.00  
543.00  
569.00  
596.00  
625.00  
655.00  
686.50  
719.00  
754.00  
790.00  
827.50  
2,160.00  
109  
Zone G  
503.50  
527.50  
553.00  
579.50  
607.00  
636.00  
666.50  
698.50  
732.00  
767.00  
804.00  
2,098.50  
108  
Step#  
1  
2  
3  
4  
  
6  
/  
8  
9  
10  
11  
### TIME IN  
Effective April 2005  
### TERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
Effective April 2006  
   
Zone E  
541.50  
568.00  
595.00  
623.50  
653.50  
684.50  
717.50  
752.50  
788.00  
826.00  
865.50  
Zone F  
531.00  
556.50  
583.00  
611.00  
640.50  
671.50  
703.50  
737.00  
773.00  
810.00  
848.00  
TPA 2,259.00 2,213.50  
Job Titles  
Video Installer  
Zone G  
516.00  
540.50  
567.00  
594.00  
622.00  
652.00  
683.00  
716.00  
750.50  
786.00  
824.00  
2,150.50  
Time in Title  
18  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
999.00  
582.00  
610.00  
639.00  
670.00  
701.50  
735.50  
771.50  
807.50  
846.50  
887.00  
TPA 2,315.00  
Zone F  
544.50  
570.50  
597.50  
626.50  
656.50  
688.50  
721.00  
755.50  
792.50  
830.50  
869.00  
2,268.00  
Zone G  
529.00  
554.00  
581.00  
609.00  
637.50  
668.50  
700.00  
734.00  
769.50  
805.50  
844.50  
2,204.00  
175  
Wage Schedule PBHE 25 | time interval BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April Effective April  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
1 567.50 557.00 541.00 1 580.50 569.50 553.00  
95.00 583.50 566.50 2 608.50 596.50 579.00  
23.50 611.00 594.00 637.50 624.50 607.50  
53.50 640.50 622.50 668.00 655.00 636.50  
85.00 671.50 652.00 700.50 686.50 666.50  
71750 704.00 683.50 733.50 720.00 699.00  
752.00 737.00 716.00 769.00 753.50 732.00  
789.00 772.50 750.50 807.00 790.00 767.50  
9 825.50 810.50 787.00 9 844.00 828.50 804.50  
10 865.50 849.00 823.50 10 885.00 868.00 842.00  
11 907.00 888.50 863.50 11 927.50 908.50 883.00  
TPA 2,367.50 2,319.00 2,253.50 TPA 2,421.00 2,371.00 2,304.50  
   
   
### oD FLO CO Mm  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Job Titles Time in Title  
10 109 108 Video Installer 18  
‘ Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
176  
Wage Schedule PBHE 27 | time interval BETWEEN STEPS —6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
1 608.00 596.00 579.00 1 623.00 611.00 593.50 1 638.50 626.50 608.50  
639.00 627.00 608.50 2 655.00 642.50 623.50 671.50 658.50 639.00  
672.00 659.00 640.00 3 689.00 675.50 656.00 706.00 692.50 672.50  
707.00 693.00 672.50 4 724.50 710.50 689.50 742.50 728.50 706.50  
743.00 729.00 707.50 5 761.50 747.00 725.00 780.50 765.50 743.00  
6  
7  
8  
   
   
   
781.50 766.00 744.00 801.00 785.00 762.50 821.00 804.50 781.50  
821.50 806.00 782.50 842.00 826.00 802.00 863.00 846.50 822.00  
864.00 847.00 822.50 885.50 868.00 843.00 907.50 889.50 864.00  
9 909.00 891.00 865.00 9 931.50 913.50 886.50 9 955.00 936.50 908.50  
10 955.00 936.50 909.50 10 979.00 960.00 932.00 10 1003.50 984.00 955.50  
11 1004.50 985.00 956.50 11 1029.50 1009.50 980.50 11 1055.00 1034.50 1005.00  
TPA 2,621.50 2,571.00 2,496.50 TPA 2,687.00 2,635.00 2,559.00 TPA 2,753.50 2,700.00 2,623.00  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Job Titles Time in Title  
116 115 114 Customer Service Technician 18  
177  
Wage Schedule PBHE 27 | time interval BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April Effective April  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
1 653.00 640.50 622.00 1 667.50 655.00 636.00  
86.50 673.50 653.50 2 702.00 688.50 668.00  
722.00 708.00 687.50 738.00 724.00 703.00  
759.00 745.00 722.50 776.00 762.00 739.00  
798.00 782.50 759.50 816.00 800.00 776.50  
39.50 822.50 799.00 858.50 841.00 817.00  
82.50 865.50 840.50 902.50 885.00 859.50  
28.00 909.50 883.50 949.00 930.00 903.50  
9 976.50 957.50 929.00 9 998.50 979.00 950.00  
10 1026.00 1006.00 977.00 10 1049.00 1028.50 999.00  
11 1078.50 1058.00 1027.50 11 1103.00 1082.00 1050.50  
TPA 2,815.00 2,761.50 2,682.00 TPA 2,879.00 2,824.00 2,742.00  
   
   
### oD FLO CO Mm  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Job Titles Time in Title  
16 115 114 Customer Service Technician 18  
‘ Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
178  
Wage Schedule PBHE 29 interval BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
1 718.00 704.00 683.50 1 736.00 721.50 700.50 1 754.50 739.50 718.00  
752.50 737.00 716.00 2 771.50 755.50 734.00 2 791.00 77450 752.50  
788.00 772.00 749.50 3 807.50 791.50 768.00 3 827.50 811.50 787.00  
825.00 809.00 785.50 4 845.50 829.00 805.00 4 866.50 849.50 825.00  
864.50 847.00 822.50 5 886.00 868.00 843.00 5 908.00 889.50 864.00  
6 6  
7 7  
8 8  
   
   
   
905.50 887.50 861.50 928.00 909.50 883.00 951.00 932.00 905.00  
948.00 929.00 902.50 971.50 952.00 925.00 996.00 976.00 948.00  
993.50 973.00 945.50 1018.50 997.50 969.00 1044.00 1022.50 993.00  
9 1040.50 1019.50 990.00 9 1066.50 1045.00 1015.00 9 1093.00 1071.00 1040.50  
10 1090.00 1068.00 1037.50 10 1117.50 1094.50 1063.50 10 1145.50 1122.00 1090.00  
11 1141.50 1118.50 1086.50 11 1170.00 1146.50 1113.50 11. 1199.50 1175.00 1141.50  
TPA 2,979.50 2,919.50 2,836.00 TPA 3,053.50 2,992.50 2,906.00 TPA 3,130.50 3,067.00 2,979.50  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Job Titles Time in Title  
121 120 119 Headend Technician 18  
179  
Wage Schedule PBHE 29 | time interval BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April Effective April  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG  
1 771.50 756.00 734.00 1 789.00 773.00 750.50  
09.00 792.00 769.50 2 827.00 810.00 787.00  
46.00 830.00 804.50 865.00 848.50 822.50  
86.00 868.50 843.50 906.00 888.00 862.50  
28.50 909.50 883.50 949.50 930.00 903.50  
72.50 953.00 925.50 994.50 974.50 946.50  
1018.50 998.00 969.50 1041.50 1020.50 991.50  
1067.50 1045.50 1015.50 1091.50 1069.00 1038.50  
9 1117.50 1095.00 1064.00 9 1142.50 1119.50 1088.00  
10 1171.50 1147.00 1114.50 10 1198.00 1173.00 1139.50  
11 1226.50 1201.50 1167.00 11 1254.00 1228.50 1193.50  
TPA 3,201.00 3,136.00 3,046.00 TPA 3,273.00 3,206.50 3,115.00  
   
   
### oD FLO CO Mm  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Job Titles Time in Title  
21 120 119 Headend Technician 18  
‘ Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
180  
### Wage Schedule 30 TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
Effective April 2004 Effective April 2005 Effective April 2006  
Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Step# ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
1 431.00 423.00 412.00 40400 1 44200 43350 42250 414.00 1 453.00 444.50 433.00 424.50  
479.50 470.00 458.00 449.50 2 491.50 482.00 469.50 460.50 504.00 494.00 481.00 472.00  
533.00 523.00 509.50 500.00 3 546.50 536.00 522.00 512.50 560.00 549.50 535.00 525.50  
592.00 581.50 566.50 555.50 4 607.00 596.00 580.50 569.50 622.00 611.00 595.00 583.50  
658.50 646.00 630.00 617.50 5 675.00 662.00 646.00 633.00 692.00 678.50 662.00 649.00  
6  
7  
8  
   
   
   
732.50 718.50 700.00 687.00 751.00 736.50 717.50 704.00 770.00 755.00 = 735.50 = 721.50  
814.50 798.50 779.00 764.00 835.00 818.50 798.50 783.00 856.00 839.00 818.50 802.50  
905.50 888.50 866.00 849.50 928.00 910.50 887.50 870.50 951.00 933.50 909.50 892.50  
9 1006.50 987.50 963.00 945.00 9 1031.50 1012.00 987.00 96850 9 1057.50 1037.50 1011.50 992.50  
10 1119.50 1098.00 1070.50 1051.00 10 1147.50 1125.50 1097.50 107750 10 1176.00 1153.50 1125.00 1104.50  
11 1244.50 1221.00 1190.50 1169.00 11 1275.50 1251.50 1220.50 1198.00 11 1307.50 1283.00 1251.00 1228.00  
TPA 3,248.00 3,187.00 3,107.00 3,051.00 3,329.00 3,266.50 3,185.50 3,127.00 7PA3,412.50 3,348.50 3,265.00 3,205.00  
### MN oO AF LOD OO Mm C  
### MN Oo AF LOD OO Mm C  
   
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada Job Titles Time in Title  
125 124 123 122 Antenna Technician 36  
Wage Schedule 30  
Effective April  
   
Step# Zone E  
1  
### N OO WA LO OO Mm C  
9  
10  
11  
181  
463.00  
515.50  
72.50  
36.00  
707.50  
787.50  
79.90  
72.50  
1081.50  
1202.50  
1337.00  
TPA 3,489.50  
Pension Bands:  
ZoneE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
   
25  
   
Zone F  
454.50  
505.00  
562.00  
624.50  
694.00  
772.00  
858.00  
954.50  
1061.00  
1179.50  
1312.00  
3,424.50  
124  
Zone G  
442 50  
492.00  
547.00  
608.50  
677.00  
752.00  
837.00  
930.00  
1034.50  
1150.50  
1279.00  
3,338.00  
123  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS — 6 MONTHS  
   
   
Nevada Step# Zone E  
434.00  
482.50  
937.90  
596.50  
663.50  
737.50  
820.50  
912.50  
1015.00  
1129.50  
1255.50  
3,277.00  
122  
473.50  
927.00  
989.50  
650.50  
723.50  
805.00  
895.00  
994.50  
1106.00  
1229.50  
1367.00  
od SWF LD oO Mm  
Effective A  
Zone F  
464.50  
516.50  
574.50  
638.50  
709.50  
789.50  
877.50  
976.00  
1085.00  
1206.00  
1341.50  
A 3,568.00 3,501.50  
Job Titles  
Antenna Technician  
‘ Amounts may increase due to COLA listed in Section C1.  
ril 2008"  
Zone G  
452.50  
503.00  
559.50  
622.00  
692.00  
769.00  
856.00  
951.00  
1058.00  
1176.50  
1308.00  
3,414.00  
Nevada  
444 00  
493.50  
549.50  
610.00  
678.50  
754.00  
839.00  
933.00  
1038.00  
1155.00  
1283.50  
3,350.00  
Time in Title  
36  
### J XIGN4ddV  
   
### NOTES  
182  
### Section C4 CLASSIFICATION OF EXCHANGES BY AREA  
Section C4.01 ZONEE  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Beverly Hills Hawthorne  
Compton Inglewood  
Culver City Lomita  
El Segundo Los Angeles  
Campbell Mountain View  
East Bay Pacifica  
Half Moon Bay Palo Alto  
Los Altos Redwood City  
Millbrae San Carlos-Belmont  
Section C4.02 ZONE F  
Agoura Fullerton  
Alhambra Garden Grove  
Anaheim Glendale  
Arcadia Irvine  
* Arrowhead La Crescenta  
Avalon La Jolla  
Azusa La Mesa  
Brea Lancaster  
Buena Park Long Beach  
Burbank Montebello  
Canoga Park National City  
Capistrano Valley Newhall  
Chula Vista Newport Beach  
Coronado North Hollywood  
Cypress Northridge  
Del Mar Oceanside  
Diamond Bar Orange  
Downey Palmdale  
El Cajon * Palmdale-FAA Center  
El Monte * Palmdale-Pearblossom  
Encinitas Pasadena  
Escondido Placentia  
Fallbrook Poway  
San Pedro  
Torrance  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
San Francisco  
San Jose  
San Mateo  
South San Francisco  
Sunnyvale  
   
Ramona  
Rancho Bernardo  
Rancho Penasquitos  
Rancho Santa Fe  
Reseda  
Saddleback Valley  
San Clemente  
San Diego  
San Marcos  
Santa Ana  
Santa Clarita Valley  
Santa Maria  
Santa Monica  
Simi  
Temecula  
Thousand Oaks  
Trabuco  
Valley Center  
Van Nuys  
Vista  
Whittier  
Yorba Linda  
* Yermo  
* Special Rate Area Treated as Base Rate Area of Exchange.  
Section C4.02  
Antioch  
Belvedere  
Bishop Ranch  
Concord  
Corte Madera  
Crockett  
Danville  
Dublin  
East Contra Costa  
Fremont-Newark  
Section C4.03  
Arlington  
Baker  
Banning  
Barstow  
Blythe  
Borrego  
Brawley  
Calexico  
Colton  
Corona  
El Centro  
Fillmore  
### ZONE F  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Hayward  
Ignacio  
Lafayette  
Livermore  
Martinez  
Mill Valley  
Moraga  
Orinda  
Pittsburg  
Pleasanton  
### ZONE G  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Fontana  
Highland  
Holtville  
Indio  
Julian  
Mira Loma  
Moorpark  
Ojai  
Oxnard  
Palm Springs  
Pine Valley  
Pomona  
184  
Point Reyes  
Richmond-El Sobrante  
Rodeo  
San Martin  
San Rafael  
Sausalito  
Stinson Beach-Bolinas  
Walnut Creek  
Rialto  
Riverside  
San Bernardino  
Santa Barbara  
San Ysidro  
Saticoy  
Twentynine Palms  
Ventura  
Ventura East  
Victorville  
Woodcrest  
Section C4.03  
Anderson  
Angels Camp  
Aptos  
Arcata  
Arroyo Grande  
Arvin  
Atascadero  
Atwater  
Auburn  
Bakersfield  
* Beale Air Force Base  
Calistoga  
Castroville  
* Camino-Pollock Pines  
Carmel  
*Central Valley  
Chico  
Chowchilla  
Cloverdale  
Clovis  
Coalinga  
Corning  
Cottonwood  
Davis  
Delano  
Dinuba  
Dixon  
Downiteville  
Dunnigan  
Dunsmuir  
Edwards  
Elk  
Eureka  
Fairfield-Suisun  
Fair Oaks  
Felton  
Firebaugh  
Folsom  
Forestville  
Fort Bragg  
Fortuna  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Fresno  
Galt  
Grass Valley  
Gridley  
Guerneville  
Hanford  
Healdsburg  
Hollister  
Jackson  
King City  
Lakeport  
Lemoore  
Lincoln  
Lockeford  
Lodi  
Los Banos  
Lower Lake  
Madera  
Marysville  
Merced  
Middletown  
Modesto  
Mojave  
* Mojave Switching Center  
Monterey  
Morro Bay  
Mt. Shasta  
Napa  
Newman  
Nimbus (Aero-Jet)  
North Tahoe  
Oakdale  
Orland  
Oroville  
Paradise  
Paso Robles  
Petaluma  
Placerville  
Point Arena  
Porterville  
Portola  
Quincy  
Red Bluff  
Redding  
Rio Linda  
Sacramento  
Salinas  
San Andreas  
San Luis Obispo  
St. Helena  
Santa Cruz  
Santa Rosa  
Sebastopol  
Selma  
Sonoma  
Sonora  
South Placer  
South Tahoe  
Stockton  
Susanville  
Taft  
Tehachapi  
Tracy  
Truckee  
Tulare  
Turlock  
Ukiah  
Vacaville  
Vallejo  
Visalia  
Wasco  
Watsonville  
Weed  
Willits  
Willows  
Windsor  
Woodland  
Yosemite  
Yountville  
Yreka  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
   
* Special Rate Area treated as Base Rate Area of Exchange  
185  
Section C4.04 NEVADA  
Austin Empire/Gerlach Pahrump  
Battle Mountain Fernley Reno  
Beatty Hawthorne Schurz  
Carson City Indian Springs Tonopah  
Crystal Bay Las Vegas Virginia City  
Elko Lovelock Winnemucca  
Ely Orovada  
### Section C5 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA)  
For employees covered under this agreement the Team Performance Award  
(TPA) will apply for the years 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009.  
### Section C5.01 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) —  
A.  
### DESCRIPTION  
Purpose  
The TPA is intended to encourage and reward team performance of  
employees by providing incentive compensation based on attainment  
of Corporate and Business Plan objectives. Participants will earn an  
award based on the performance of Pacific Bell. The Company per-  
formance measures will be the same as the Company performance  
measures used for the management Team Award.  
Awards  
Awards under the Plan are based on performance over an Award Year  
(calendar year). A standard award amount is determined for each  
Award Year, a percentage of which may be earned by eligible employ-  
ees depending on team performance during the Award Year. Standard  
Award amounts are included on the wage schedules of this appendix.  
1. Award Level  
The TPA is tied to Company success. The maximum award  
earned for financial and service performance is 100% of the stan-  
dard award. Pay-outs greater than 100% are at the discretion of  
the Company. Any discretionary pay-out percentage over 100%  
will be the same as the Company pay-out percentage used for the  
management Team Award of Pacific Bell. The minimum thresh-  
old is a 50% pay-out. Performance which results in a calculation  
below 50% results in no pay-out.  
186  
2. Award Computation  
Eligible employees will receive awards based on Company  
performance including financial and services measures. Section  
C5.02 describes the performance measurement process and the  
computation of the TPA.  
3. Award Payment  
Payment of awards will be made as soon as practicable after the  
Award Year and will normally occur the payday of the last full  
pay period in February.  
Eligibility  
Team members who have at least 90 days active service during the  
Award Year are eligible for awards. Active service may not be rounded  
up to 90 days to achieve eligibility. Neither may disability or leave of  
absence time be included to meet the 90 days minimum active service  
requirement.  
Prorating Awards  
Those employees in the Plan for 90 days or more but less than twelve  
months receive prorated amounts. Amounts will be prorated on a daily  
basis.  
Part-Time Employees, Temporary Employees and Term Employees  
Part-Time employees are eligible for a prorated award based on the  
relationship of the individual part-time employee’s average workweek  
for the calendar year to a forty (40) hour workweek.  
Temporary and Term employees are eligible for a prorated award if all  
other eligibility requirements are met.  
Transfers, Promotions, Retirements, Resignations and Dismissals  
Participating employees who transfer, resign, retire, or are dismissed  
during an Award Year will be treated according to the following  
provisions:  
1. Transfers  
An employee transferring between positions 1s eligible for a pro-  
rated award according to the time of active service in that posi-  
tion. A total of 90 days active service in all eligible positions must  
be met, however.  
187  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
   
2. Promotions  
Employees moving between award eligible levels during an  
Award Year shall have their award prorated according to the time  
of active service at each level.  
3. Temporary Promotions/Reclassifications  
Temporary promotees/reclassifications are eligible for a prorated  
award according to the time of active service in that title.  
4. Retirements  
Retirees with 90 days or more of active service during the Award  
Year are eligible to receive prorated awards.  
5. Resignations  
An employee who resigns or is laid off during an Award Year is  
eligible for a prorated award if all other eligibility requirements  
have been met.  
6. Dismissals  
An employee who is dismissed during the Award Year is not eli-  
gible for the award.  
Short-Term Disability Absence  
Employees having cumulative Short-Term disability absence(s) for  
ninety (90) days or less in a year will receive a full award. When the  
disability period is in excess of ninety (90) days in a year, the award  
will be prorated to the nearest day of active service for the Award Year.  
Other Leaves of Absences  
Employees on approved military leave(s) of absence who have one (1)  
year or more service will be given full wage credit up to three (3)  
months toward the award. Employees on other approved leave(s) of  
absence will have cumulative leave time in excess of thirty (30) days  
excluded from award computation.  
Time Off For Union Activities  
Time off for union activities (both UP and UA time) will be counted  
as time worked when computing awards.  
Excused time in any month in an Award Year which is counted as time  
worked will be added to actual time worked before prorating.  
188  
Benefits Treatment  
The TPA is recognized for many benefit programs that are pay related.  
The effect of this practice on specific benefits is shown below.  
L.  
Death Benefits  
Awards paid within the twelve (12) month period prior to the date  
of death are included in the basic pay. Awards received in the  
twelve months prior to the date of retirement are included in the  
death benefit computation for a retired employee. Awards  
received after retirement do not affect the benefit.  
Group Insurance  
Awards received in the past twelve (12) months are included in  
the computation of basic pay for all insurance coverage. Deduc-  
tions from monthly pay will be made for employees purchasing  
Supplementary coverage on an annualized basis.  
Savings Plan  
TPA will be included in Savings Plan deductions.  
Short-Term Disability  
Payment is equal to the current base wage rate. The TPA is not  
considered.  
Long-Term Disability  
Maximum payment is 50% of the base wage rate in effect at the  
beginning of the disability. The TPA is not considered.  
Pensions  
The TPA is included when pension bands are assigned.  
Taxes, Personal Allotments  
   
Awards are subject to state and local taxes, Federal Income Tax, Social  
Security Tax, Medicare Tax and California State Disability deduc-  
tions at the time of payment. Union dues will be deducted at the same  
rate as they are deducted for wages. Employees with 401(k) elections  
will not have State or Federal Income Taxes deducted from that  
portion.  
Personal allotments such as Savings Bonds and United Giving  
contributions will not be made.  
189  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
   
Overtime  
Overtime payments will be based on an hourly rate which includes  
both base and TPA payments.  
An employee’s hourly wage TPA rate for overtime payments will be  
calculated as follows:  
The hourly rate will be equal to actual award divided by 2080 hours.  
Example of TPA Overtime Payment Using TPA hourly rate:  
An employee’s TPA Payment equals $1,768. The employee worked  
100 hours of overtime in the award year at a time and one-half rate  
(100 x 1.5 = 150 hours).  
TPA Overtime TPA  
Hourly Hours Overtime  
Rate Worked Payment  
$1,768 = 85 xX 150 = $127.50  
   
2080  
The TPA Overtime Payment (TPAOT) will be included in the pay  
check of the last full pay period of February TPA Pay-out.  
### Section C5.02 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) —  
### COMPUTATIONS  
The TPA will provide annual cash payments, based on an employee’s wage  
schedule, depending on whether the Company meets, exceeds or misses its  
financial and service goals. The TPA will be based on Pacific Bell per-  
formance. The Company performance measures will be the same as the  
Company performance measures used for the Pacific Bell Management  
Team Award.  
The TPA payments will be determined as follows:  
1.  
A standard award, based on the top step of an employee’s wage  
schedule, will be given annually if the Company meets its financial  
and service goals. The standard award will be 5.0% of annual top  
step pay for each of the years 2004-2009.  
The standard awards described in number 1| above will be adjusted based  
on percent achievement of Company performance measures.  
The TPA pay-out will be based on the percent achievement of  
Company performance measures. Each year, Pacific Bell will set:  
190  
¢ financial and customer service targets  
¢ a financial/service weighting  
The percent achievement of the Company’s financial and service  
targets will determine the Team Performance Award. The Company  
pay-out percentages for the Team Performance Award will be the  
same as the Company pay-out percentages used for the management  
Team Award of Pacific Bell.  
An example of a pay-out computation is shown below:  
¢ Company performance targets for financial and service perform-  
ance were set by the Company. The Company also determined that  
the TPA pay-out would be based 75% on financial performance and  
25% on service performance.  
* 98% of the financial target was attained, which resulted in 98%. The  
weighting of the financial portion is 75%. 98% multiplied by 75%  
equals a 73.5% result.  
¢ 100% of the service target was attained, which resulted in 100%.  
The weighting of the service portion is 25%. 100% multiplied by  
25% equals a 25% result.  
¢ The financial result of 73.5% plus the service result of 25% equals  
a TPA pay-out of 98.5%.  
### TPA  
Financial Service Payout  
[a [Perfomance 98%  
Po | Weighting [75%  
  
    
= | 98.50%  
191  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
   
### Section C6 PENSION TABLE REVISIONS  
The following monthly pension benefit amounts will be effective for those  
persons retiring on or after January 1, 2005, January 1, 2006 and  
January 1, 2007:  
Pension For Retirements For Retirements For Retirements  
Band on or after on or after on or after  
Number January 1, 2005 January 1, 2006 January 1, 2007  
104 $36.61 $37.53 $38.47  
105 $37.98 $38.93 $39.90  
106 $39.38 $40.36 $41.37  
107 $40.78 $41.80 $42.85  
108 $42.11 $43.16 $44.24  
109 $43.50 $44.59 $45.70  
110 $44.87 $45.99 $47.14  
111 $46.25 $47.41 $48.60  
112 $47.58 $48.77 $49.99  
113 $48.99 $50.21 $51.47  
114 $50.33 $51.59 $52.88  
115 $51.72 $53.01 $54.34  
116 $53.10 $54.43 $55.79  
117 $54.44 $55.80 $57.20  
118 $55.84 $57.24 $58.67  
119 $57.21 $58.64 $60.11  
120 $58.56 $60.02 $61.52  
121 $59.92 $61.42 $62.96  
122 $61.31 $62.84 $64.41  
123 $62.68 $64.25 $65.86  
124 $64.06 $65.66 $67.30  
125 $65.45 $67.09 $68.77  
Additional pension band increases of 2.25% plus the applicable COLA  
adjustment made to wages effective January 1, 2008 and January 1,  
2009.  
Sample Pension Computation  
Note: Refer to your Summary Plan Description for a full description of  
how a pension is computed, including the supplemental pension,  
early retirement discount, survivor annuity option, etc.  
192  
The basic monthly pension is computed as your service credit multiplied by  
the monthly benefit amount (above) for your pension band.  
You will find the pension band for your job and wage schedule in the Wage  
Schedule Tables of the Contract.  
For example, if an employee with a wage schedule assigned pension band  
114 retired in January, 2006, with thirty (30) years of service, the pension  
would be 30 x $51.59 = $1,547.70 per month.  
### Section C7 EVENING, NIGHT AND EARLY MORNING  
### DIFFERENTIALS  
### A. APPLICABLE FOR WAGE SCHEDULES WS3 AND WS5  
1. Evening and Night Differentials  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
   
### LENGTH %o  
### TOURS ENDING OF TOUR DAILY DIFFER.  
6:30 P.M. 7 1/2 HRS. 1.0%  
6:31PM. TO 7:00 P.M. 7-1/2 HRS. 2.5%  
7:01 PM. TO 7:59 P.M. 7-1/2 HRS. 2.5%  
8:00 PM. TO 8:59 P.M. 7 HRS. 2.0%  
9:00 P.M. TO 10:00 P.M. 7 HRS. 2.0%  
10:01 PM. TO 11:00 P.M. 6 HRS. 1.0%  
11:01 PM. TO 12 MID. 6 HRS. 1.0%  
12:01 A.M. TO 1:00 A.M. 6 HRS. 1.0%  
1:01 A.M. TO 2:00 A.M. 6 HRS. 1.5%  
2:01 A.M. TO 3:00 A.M. 6 HRS. 2.0%  
### ALL-NIGHT TOURS 7 HRS. 3.0%  
### TO BE ADMINISTERED AS PROVIDED IN APPENDIX A, SECTION A3.  
2. Early Morning Differential  
### LENGTH %o  
### TOURS BEGINNING OF TOUR DAILY DIFFER.  
5:00 A.M. TO 5:59 A.M. 7-1/2 HRS. 2.0%  
193  
### Section C8 WAGE ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE  
Section C8.01 GENERAL  
A. The following definitions will apply to this practice:  
1.  
A Change of Assignment is a change from one title classification  
to a different title classification.  
To determine whether an employee’s change of assignment is to  
a lower, equal or higher-rated schedule, compare the top rate of  
employee’s former schedule with the top rate of the schedule to  
which the employee is being assigned. When comparing top  
rates, include any applicable job (not shift) differential, except a  
relief differential.  
Steps — are a specified number of six month intervals on a sched-  
ule. Steps are associated with specific wage rates. We currently  
have 9 and 11 step schedules.  
Elapsed Time — is the time an employee has accumulated or  
should be credited with on a step.  
Total Schedule Time or Wage Experience Credit is determined by  
combining the number of months corresponding to the  
employee’s current step, and the elapsed time on that step.  
B. The following rules should apply to all moves between schedules,  
whether to lower, equal or higher rated schedules:  
1.  
When the change of assignment occurs on the same date on  
which a scheduled increase is due, both increases shall be effec-  
tive on that date but the scheduled increase shall be considered as  
preceding any applicable promotional increase.  
When the change of assignment is to a schedule in a different  
wage area, the employee shall first be placed on the former sched-  
ule in the new wage area with the same total schedule time.  
Movement to the new schedule will then be according to the  
rules outlined in Sections C8.02, C8.03, C8.04, C8.05, or C8.06  
which follow.  
In no case shall the new wage rate exceed the top rate of the  
schedule to which the employee is assigned.  
194  
4. Innocase shall any employee lose Total Schedule Time or Wage  
Experience Credit with exception of the limitation STEP FROM  
### MAXIMUM.  
### Section C8.02 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT TOA  
### HIGHER-RATED SCHEDULE  
Compare the rate associated with the employee’s step on the lower-rated  
schedule, including any applicable job differential (except a relief differ-  
ential), with the rate associated on the new schedule as determined by  
allowing the employee full Wage Experience Credit in progression or at  
maximum on the old wage schedule. The employee shall then be placed on  
the new wage schedule according to the following rules:  
A.  
If the wage rate on the new schedule is equal to or lower than the rate  
on the lower-rated schedule, the employee shall be placed on the step  
of the new schedule having the rate nearest to but not less than the  
employee’s existing rate.  
If the rate on the new wage schedule is higher than the rate on the  
lower-rated schedule, the employee shall be placed on the new  
schedule allowing full Wage Experience Credit in progression, or at  
maximum from the old schedule.  
The employee shall be placed on the step on the new wage schedule,  
as determined by the comparisons made in paragraphs A. and B.  
preceding, but not to exceed the step down from maximum of the new  
schedule as listed following paragraph D, except as provided in  
Article 4, Section 4.01B2.  
To determine the time interval to the next progression increase on the  
schedule to which assigned, credit shall be allowed for the employee’s  
elapsed time on the step of the lower-rated schedule, both in progres-  
sion or at maximum WITH THE EXCEPTION of any movement  
involving a limitation on the step from maximum. In such cases, no  
credit shall be allowed towards the next progression increase.  
195  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
   
### UPGRADE TO:  
### (LIMITATION)  
### STEP FROM MAXIMUM -—- 12 MONTHS  
Antenna Technician  
Building Specialist  
Combination Technician  
Communications Technician  
Company Telecommunications  
Technician  
Copy Service Artist  
ENOC Technician  
Equipment Installation Technician  
Equipment Specialist  
Headend Technician  
Production Representative  
Splicing Technician  
Systems Technician  
Systems Technician — Data Comm.  
Testing Technician  
### (LIMITATION)  
### STEP FROM MAXIMUM — 6 MONTHS  
Accounting Associate  
Accounting Specialist  
Analyst  
Assignment Administrator  
Building Mechanic  
Cable Locator  
Collection Representative  
Collection Representative — Bilingual  
Collector  
Computer Operator  
Customer Representative  
Customer Representative — Bilingual  
Customer Service Technician  
Data Administrator  
Data Specialist  
Driver  
Engineering Administrator  
Engineering Assistant  
Engineering Cost Associate  
Facilities Administrator  
Facilities Technician  
FACS Administrator  
Field Job Administrator  
Garage Mechanic  
Maintenance Administrator  
Maintenance Notification Associate  
Medical Assistant  
Network Maintenance Specialist  
Operations Administrator  
Operations Specialist  
Order Writer  
Outside Plant Technician  
Provisioning Specialist  
RCMA Administrator  
Sales and Service Representative — Bilingual  
Service Representative  
Services Technician  
Supervisor’s Assistant  
Supply Service Attendant  
Supply Specialist-Nevada  
196  
### (LIMITATION)  
### STEP FROM MAXIMUM — 0 MONTHS  
Administrative Clerk Office Associate  
Cashier Operator  
Central Office Associate Reports Associate  
Customer Associate Service Assistant  
Customer Service Associate Service Assistant — Bilingual  
Data Entry Associate Services Specialist  
Garage Attendant Staff Associate aS  
HR Operations Associate Translations Operator SI  
Information Processor Video Installer =  
Messenger (Motorized) Warehouse Supplies Attendant  
### Section C8.03 EXCEPTIONS TO THE LIMITATIONS IN  
A.  
B.  
   
### SECTION C8.02  
Moves from one title to another title having the same twelve (12) months  
or six (6) months limitation shall be at full wage experience credit.  
Moves between Wage Schedule WS11 and WS12 shall be at full wage  
experience credit.  
Moves between the following titles shall be at full wage experience credit:  
Building Mechanic  
Building Specialist  
Collector  
Copy Service Artist  
Driver  
Equipment Specialist  
Facilities Technician  
Garage Attendant  
Moves to a higher-rated schedule resulting in a decrease in the  
employee’s wage rate under the procedures outlined in Section C8.02  
above shall be made as follows:  
The employees shall instead be placed on the step of the new schedule  
having the rate nearest to, but not less than, the existing rate (step from  
maximum limitations will not apply).  
Changes of assignment to a previously held title shall be at full wage  
experience credit.  
Moves as a result of an OJE (Article 4).  
197  
### Section C8.04 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT BETWEEN  
A.  
### SCHEDULES WITH THE SAME TOP RATE  
Changes of Assignment Between Schedules of the Same Length:  
Compare the rate associated with the employee’s step on the old wage  
schedule with the same step on the new wage schedule.  
1. Ifthe rate on the new schedule is the same or higher than the rate  
on the old schedule, the employee shall be placed on the step of  
the new schedule by allowing full Wage Experience Credit. To  
determine the time interval to the next progression increase,  
credit shall be allowed for the employee’s elapsed time on the  
step of the old schedule.  
2. If the rate on the new schedule is lower than the rate on the old  
schedule, the employee shall be placed on the step of the new  
schedule having the rate nearest to but not less than the  
employee’s existing rate. To determine the time interval to the  
next progression increase, no credit shall be allowed for the  
employee’s elapsed time on the step of the old schedule.  
Changes of Assignment From a Shorter to a Longer Wage Schedule:  
The employee shall be placed on the step of the new schedule having  
the rate nearest to, but not less than the employee’s existing rate. To  
determine the time interval to the next progression increase, no credit  
shall be allowed for the employee’s elapsed time on the step of the old  
schedule.  
Changes of Assignment From a Longer to a Shorter Wage Schedule:  
The employee shall be placed on the step of the new schedule that the  
employee was administered on the former schedule. To determine the  
time interval to the next progression increase, credit shall be allowed  
for the employee’s elapsed time on the step of old schedule.  
### Section C8.05 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT TOA  
### LOWER-RATED SCHEDULE  
On all changes of assignment to a lower-rated schedule, the employee shall  
be placed on the same step on the lower-rated schedule that the employee  
was administered on the former schedule. To determine the time interval to  
the next progression increase, credit shall be allowed for the employee’s  
elapsed time on the step of the former schedule.  
198  
Section C8.06 RETREATS  
Anytime an employee moves to another job and subsequently retreats to the  
former job within six (6) months; for wage purposes the employee will be  
treated as though he or she never left the job.  
>  
a]  
a)  
mi  
  
=  
=<  
  
   
199  
### NOTES  
200  
### AGREEMENT OF RECOGNITION  
The Union certifies that a majority of non-supervisory employees in the bar-  
gaining units described below have designated the Union as the exclusive  
bargaining agent and have empowered the authorized representatives of the  
Union to bargain collectively and to enter into and execute agreements  
with the Companies with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employ-  
ment and other conditions of employment.  
All non-supervisory employees in the organizations and having the job  
titles specified in Appendix A, Sections Al through A1.01, A2 through  
A2.01, A3 through A3.01, A4 through A4.01, and Appendix B, are repre-  
sented by the Communications Workers of America (CWA) with the  
following exceptions:  
¢ Employees represented by other Unions.  
¢ Non-represented employees whose non-represented status  
exists at the effective date of this Contract.  
The Companies will periodically provide the Union with an updated  
addenda of representation by appendix by operating unit and payroll ARC.  
¢ As new reports are issued, the Companies will provide the  
Union with a copy of the summary of changes since the  
previous report.  
201  
=  
fan  
  
|  
2  
=  
=  
=)  
  
40  
   
### NOTES  
202  
The Memoranda of Agreement on the following pages,  
which are included for easy reference,  
are effective through the term of  
the 2004 Contract  
between  
Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell,  
SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas, Nevada,  
SBC Telecom, Inc. — Network Operations,  
SBC Advanced Solutions, Inc.,  
SBC Services, Inc.,  
Pacific Bell Information Services — Maintenance Notification  
### BR WN Re  
### ON Nn  
10.  
11.  
12.  
13.  
14.  
Group, Pacific Bell Home Entertainment  
And  
the Communications Workers of America  
. Documentation 204  
. Early Retirement Benefits 205  
. Eliminate Force Freezes, Force Limitations & Metering... . . 211  
. Employee Career Development Programs and  
Training/Retraining 212  
. Employment 213  
. Flextime... 2... 2... 2.2. ee ee ee 214  
. Monitoring and Productivity Measurements  
(Operator Services). 2... ee 216  
. Pay Treatment for Medically Restricted Employees. ...... 218  
. Principles For Sales Incentive Programs. ............ 220  
Provide for Voluntary Waiving of the Sunday  
Plus Four Request... DD  
Relocation Expense 223  
2... 22)  
Supervisory Monitoring — Definition Per CPUC Decision. . . . 229  
Supervisory Monitoring — Service Representatives ....... 231  
203  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
Ms. Carole M. Sheahan Mr. Reid B. Pearce  
Area Director Area Director  
District 9 District 9  
Communications Workers of America Communications Workers of America  
411 Airport Boulevard 6033 West Century Blvd., Ste. 600  
Burlingame, CA 94010 Los Angeles, CA 90045  
Dear Carole and Reid:  
This Memorandum of Agreement will confirm our understanding of  
October 22, 1989, regarding retention of personnel folder documentation.  
The Companies’ policy on the retention of personnel folder documentation  
regarding job performance in the areas of attendance, quality, and/or quan-  
tity of work on employees who have been subject to disciplinary action 1s:  
“Once disciplinary action has been taken and the problem corrected,  
all records will be destroyed.”  
This policy will be supplemented with this clarification:  
“Under normal conditions, the records will be destroyed within one  
year of the action taken.”  
This Memorandum of Agreement will only become effective if the collec-  
tive bargaining agreement between the parties embodied in the Memoran-  
dum of Agreement dated October 22, 1989, is ratified by the Union  
membership on or before December 1, 1989. If that Memorandum of  
Agreement is so ratified, this Memorandum of Agreement will become  
effective and will be subject to termination in accordance with Article 9 of  
the collective bargaining agreement effective August 6, 1989.  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: October 22, 1989  
204  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### EARLY RETIREMENT BENEFIT  
The pension plan will be modified effective October 1, 1995 to provide that  
from time to time during the life of the contract, the Companies may des-  
ignate work groups in which they will offer an Early Retirement Benefit  
(ERB) providing enhanced pension benefits. For purposes of this memo-  
randum of agreement “work group” shall mean a group identified by Vice  
President, headquarters and job title. ERB is intended to be offered to alle-  
viate or avoid surplus conditions. The Companies will determine, in their  
discretion, whether and when to offer ERB, but surplus will not be declared  
in a work group where ERB has not been offered to all work groups with  
the same title and Vice President entity within the consolidated headquar-  
ters defined in Article 2. There will be a thirty (30) calendar day election  
period. The Companies may place a limit on the number of employees who  
will be eligible for the ERB benefit separately in each work group. The  
Companies will send to the Union a listing of the work groups to be offered  
ERB before the start of the thirty (30) calendar day election period.  
Employees who elect to accept the offer and who are eligible under the par-  
ticipation limit for their group have to terminate employment at the time  
that is set for their retirement. They will not be allowed to revoke their elec-  
tion to retire, and their termination at the time set for their retirement will  
not be subject to arbitration.  
4 + 4 Pension Enhancement  
ERB is a 4+4 pension enhancement. Employees who meet all eligibility  
requirements will have four (4) years added to their age and four (4) years  
added to their service for purposes of computing their enhanced pension as  
of their retirement date.  
The four (4) years of service and four (4) years of age that are added in com-  
puting the amount of the enhanced pension under ERB only apply as of the  
eligibility date and the retirement date and only apply for purposes of:  
a. Determining eligibility for a service pension under ERB;  
b. Computing the amount of the enhanced pension under ERB;  
c. Determining the application of an age related discount;  
d.  
Bridging of past service for determining eligibility and for a  
service pension and the pension amount; and  
205  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
e.  
Meeting the requirement that an employee have at least  
eighteen (18) months in a pension band in order to apply all  
past service to the value of the band.  
Eligibility  
An employee in a designated work group is eligible to receive the ERB  
enhanced pension if:  
1.  
The employee is a current employee who has not waived rights  
to active benefits.  
The employee’s actual age and service (without any enhance-  
ments) as of the final day of the thirty (30) calendar day election  
period meet the normal service pension requirement or would  
meet the requirement with the addition of four (4) years to age  
and four (4) years to service, that is:  
Normal Service Pension Requirements — Eligibility Requirements with 4 + 4  
a. any age with 30 years of service any age with 26 years of service  
b. age 50 with 25 years of service age 46 with 21 years of service  
C. age 55 with 20 years of service age 51 with 16 years of service  
d. age 65 with 10 years of service age 61 with 6 years of service  
If prior service would be bridged with the addition of four (4)  
years of service, the bridged total shall be used for determining  
if the employee would meet normal pension requirements as of  
the end election period, and for computing the pension amount as  
of the retirement date, but not for any other purpose. For instance,  
it will not be used for determining service for the metering  
process described below.  
The employee elects to retire with the ERB pension enhancement  
and signs and delivers an election form to the appropriate  
Company during the thirty (30) calendar day election period.  
The employee satisfies the requirements of the limitation on the  
number of eligible employees, if applicable.  
The employee retires in the month that is determined through  
the metering process described below or on the fifteenth (15th)  
calendar day following the end of the election period, if the  
metering process is not used. Employees who terminate employ-  
ment before the applicable times will not receive the enhanced  
pension.  
206  
Temporary Supplement to Age 62  
If an employee retires with a service pension under ERB and the employee  
has not reached his or her sixty second birthday at retirement, the  
employee’s pension, after the 4+4 enhancement, will be increased by the  
addition of a 30% supplement. This temporary supplement will be paid  
each month, with the last payment made for the month in which the retiree’s  
sixty-second birthday occurs.  
There will be a separate election for a lump sum cashout applicable to this  
temporary supplement. If the employee elects a cashout of the single life  
annuity the temporary supplement will also be cashed out. If the employee  
elects monthly payments of the service pension annuity, the employee may  
separately elect a cashout of the temporary supplement only.  
Participation Limits  
1. Within any work group the Company may place a limit on the  
number of employees who will be eligible for the ERB benefit.  
2. Any such limit on a work group will be set before the thirty-day  
election period begins, and the Company will inform the Union  
of work groups with participation limits.  
3. If the number of employees submitting election forms exceeds  
the limit for the work group, eligibility will be determined by sen-  
iority, i.e., only the senior employees up to the limit will be  
eligible. This eligibility determination is made as of the end of the  
election period, and will not be changed.  
Metering Process  
In each second level work unit, or the next level higher work unit if there  
is no second level work unit, the Companies may use the following process  
to determine when employees within a work unit must retire in order to  
receive the ERB pension enhancement.  
1. Before the thirty (30) calendar day election period begins, the  
Companies will designate the work units using this metering and  
will inform the Union.  
2. The metering process will result in selection of a specific retire-  
ment month, within one (1) year from the end of the thirty (30)  
calendar day election period, for each prospectively eligible  
employee in the work unit who elected ERB. Only calendar  
months will be designated as retirement months. The month in  
207  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
which the election period ends may be a designated retirement  
month.  
There are two steps to the metering process:  
a. Within ten (10) calendar days following the end of the election  
period, for each work unit using the metering process, the Com-  
panies will distribute a metering list designating the specific  
calendar month or months in which employees in that work unit  
may retire with ERB, and the number of such employees that  
may retire in each such designated month.  
b. If more than one month is designated, each prospectively eli-  
gible employee will identify his or her preference order for all  
available months on the metering list in which he or she is  
allowed to retire. Employees shall have five (5) calendar days  
from receipt of the metering list in which to identify their  
retirement month preference order. The preference lists will  
then be matched, by seniority, with the metering list, so that  
each employee receives his or her most preferred retirement  
month remaining on the metering list, after the preferences of  
the more senior employees (as expressed on their preference  
lists) have been given effect. If two employees have identical  
seniority, the one whose last four social security number digits  
comprise the larger number will be treated as if he or she were  
more senior. An employee who does not identify his or her pref-  
erences within the above timeframe, or who submits an incom-  
plete preference list and whose preferences have all been taken,  
will be scheduled to retire in the earliest remaining available  
month on the metering list.  
Once the retirement schedule is set, it will not be changed.  
If an employee terminates employment before the month he or  
she elected through this metering process, the employee will not  
receive the ERB pension enhancement. Employees who do not  
select a particular date during the month they elected through the  
metering process for retirement will be terminated as of the last  
day of that month.  
If a work unit does not use the metering process, all the employ-  
ees in that work unit who elect ERB and meet the other ERB eli-  
gibility requirements must retire on the fifteenth (15th) calendar  
208  
day following the end of the election period in order to receive  
the enhanced pension.  
Employees receiving short term disability benefits and employ-  
ees on a leave of absence as of the thirtieth (30th) day of the  
thirty-day election period will not be included in the metering  
process, and must retire on the fifteenth (15th) day following the  
end of the thirty-day election period, or earlier if their short term  
disability benefits end earlier.  
Other Provisions Applicable to ERB  
iL.  
The pension plan will be amended for each ERB offer. Notwith-  
standing any other provision of the Collective Bargaining Agree-  
ment, the Companies shall have the right to amend the pension  
plan as appropriate to implement ERB.  
The ERB service enhancement is not a permanent change to the  
employee’s term of employment or net credited service and will not  
be used for any purpose other than determination of the ERB ben-  
efit, e.g., it will not be used to determine vacation or seniority,  
including seniority regarding the ERB metering process.  
The enhanced pension benefit is available only to those employ-  
ees who meet all eligibility requirements and are designated eli-  
gible by an amendment to the pension plan, and only during  
those periods and under those conditions designated. The pension  
enhancement will not be applied to any employee who terminates  
employment before the time set for the employee’s retirement.  
If an employee who was previously granted an enhanced pension  
under Early Retirement Choice (ERC) or Early Retirement Incen-  
tive (ERI) is in a work group where the ERB benefit is offered,  
the employee’s eligibility for the ERB benefit and the amount of  
benefit are determined without regard to any enhancements  
provided under ERC or ERI.  
For employees with part-time service during their term of  
employment, the four (4) years of enhanced service will be pro-  
rated in computing the amount of the pension benefit. No prora-  
tion will apply for the purpose of determining eligibility for a  
service pension under ERB.  
Employees receiving short term disability benefits or employees  
on leave of absence from a work group that has offered the  
209  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
10.  
enhanced pension will be eligible for the benefit if they otherwise  
meet the eligibility requirements.  
Employees temporarily promoted out of the work group or trans-  
ferred out as of the ERB designated election period will not be  
covered by the pension enhancement.  
If an employee who has accepted an offer of ERI Phase II  
enhanced pension benefits is still an employee after the effective  
date of this Memorandum of Agreement, the employee will retire  
under the provisions of the ERI Phase II offer. However, if the  
ERB pension enhancement is offered in such an employee’s work  
group and the thirty-day election period for the work group starts  
before the employee’s retirement date under ERI Phase II, the  
employee will retire on the date established under ERI Phase II,  
but will receive the better of the ERI Phase II benefit or the ERB  
benefit determined as of the retirement date. An employee in this  
circumstance will not be subject to a participation limit on eligi-  
bility under ERB and will not be counted toward the number of  
employees eligible under any participation limit on the  
employee’s work group.  
If an employee retires with a service pension enhanced under  
ERB and at a later time returns to employment with the Compa-  
nies and becomes an active participant in the pension plan, the  
employee’s service and pension will be determined in the future  
without regard to the ERB enhancement. On subsequent termi-  
nation the employee will receive the greater of the normal pen-  
sion benefit without regard to the ERB or the benefit that was  
determined under ERB, subject to the offset rules of the pension  
plan for a cashout of a previous pension.  
Administration of the Early Retirement Benefit will not be  
subject to arbitration.  
Effective date/language: With ratification  
Termination date/language: In accordance with the Conclusion Article  
### Coverage:  
Pacific Bell Yes  
Nevada Bell Yes  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: August 8, 1995  
210  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### ELIMINATE FORCE FREEZES, FORCE LIMITATIONS  
### & METERING  
1. Before implementing any force limitation, the Companies will give the  
affected Union Local(s) and District 9 fourteen calendar days advance  
notice during which time the Union Local(s) and the principle managers  
in the Officer organization planning to implement the force limitation  
will meet to discuss the need for the force limitation. In addition, the  
Officer of the impacted organization will notify the Local(s) and District  
9 in writing. The notification will contain the following:  
¢ Organization name  
¢ Title(s) affected  
¢ Location(s)  
¢ Start date and end date of the force limitation  
¢ Rationale for the force limitation  
¢ Action plan to resolve the force limitation  
It is understood, however, that this agreement does not prejudice the  
Companies’ right to implement the force limitation at the end of the  
14-calendar day period.  
2. Each request for a force limitation must be accompanied by a plan  
designed to return the affected group to an unrestricted flow of transfers.  
The Business Unit Officer will periodically review the progress being  
made toward resolution of the situation and notify the affected Union  
Local(s) and District 9 on a quarterly basis.  
Effective Date: With ratification  
Termination Date: With the Conclusion Article of the 2001  
### Collective Bargaining Agreement  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
Applies to: Pacific Bell = X SBC Services, Inc. X  
Nevada Bell xX SBC Telecom, Inc. X  
ASI X PB Home Entertainment X  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: March 23, 2001  
211  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### HORIZONS  
The Companies and the Union agree to continue the jointly administered  
Training/Retraining Programs also known as Horizons. Horizons will con-  
tinue to be part of the Employee Career Development Programs and will  
continue to be administered by the Training/Retraining Working Commit-  
tees pursuant to Sections 2.02 and 2.03 of the current contract. The Com-  
panies will make funding of up to sixteen (16) million dollars available for  
Horizons over the first three (3) years of the contract and up to ten point six  
(10.6) million dollars available for Horizons over the last two (2) years of  
the contract.  
The Training/Retraining Working Committees’ ongoing administrative  
responsibilities include:  
¢ determining Horizons practices such as, but not limited to, training  
cost prepayment, reimbursement to employees and former employ-  
ees, approval of all courses, approval of all vendors, and payment of  
the committee members from the Horizons funding for time spent  
administering the program;  
arranging for any necessary services to support administration of  
Horizons. Services may be provided by the Companies or outside  
vendors, but in either event the services will be charged to the  
Horizons funding.  
Effective date/language: With ratification  
Termination date/language: With expiration of the 2004  
Collective Bargaining Agreement  
Applies to:  
Pacific Bell X SBC Telecom Inc in Las Vegas  
Nevada Bell X PB Home Entertainment X  
SBC Services, Inc. X SBC Advanced Solutions, Inc. xX  
SBC Telecom Inc.—Network Operations X  
Pacific Bell Information Services-MNG X  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: July 29, 2004  
212  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### EMPLOYMENT SECURITY  
For regular employees who are on the payroll of the Companies as of the  
date of contract ratification and for surplus declarations declared after rati-  
fication, the Employment Security Commitment (ESC) will be handled as  
follows:  
The ESC will not be canceled or suspended for the life of the contract.  
The guaranteed job offer may be to a job throughout the state in which the  
employee currently works.  
Regardless of whether or not there is a “change that will materially alter any  
of the Companies’ Business Plan achievement,” the Employment Security  
Provisions may be cancelled or suspended for employees hired on or after  
the date of ratification; that is, employees hired on or after the date of rati-  
fication need not be maintained in the surplus process, but instead may be  
subject to layoff at that point.  
Effective date/language: With ratification  
Termination date/language: With expiration of the 2004  
Collective Bargaining Agreement  
Applies to:  
Pacific Bell X SBC Telecom Inc in Las Vegas =X  
Nevada Bell X PB Home Entertainment xX  
SBC Services, Inc. X SBC Advanced Solutions, Inc.  
SBC Telecom Inc.—Network Operations X  
Pacific Bell Information Services-MNG X  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: July 29, 2004  
213  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### FLEXTIME  
The Companies and the Union agree that Local Management and the Local  
Union may establish a Flextime Work Schedule Procedure in accordance  
with the following:  
The Companies or the Local Union may initiate a discussion regarding  
a Flexible Work Schedule Procedure.  
Where there is mutual agreement the parties will jointly develop the  
flextime procedure.  
Flextime schedules are limited to the same calendar day and to scheduled  
hours of work in that calendar day. For employees on a four-ten sched-  
ule flextime schedules are limited to the same calendar day and to ten (10)  
hours of work in that calendar day.  
Flextime is intended to allow for unexpected situations and is not  
intended to circumvent the attendance policy.  
In those locations where employees are required to fill out time sheets, all  
schedule variations must be posted on their time sheets.  
Flextime arrangements cannot create a premium/differential pay oppor-  
tunity/obligation.  
An employee’s shift will not change as a result of flextime.  
¢ Local agreements must be in writing.  
¢ The parties to any Local agreements will include a provision for either  
party to cancel the Local agreement with written notice.  
Prior to implementation, the Company and Union Bargainers must  
approve all Local Agreements.  
¢ Neither the local Flextime Agreement nor any procedure that the parties  
establish regarding Flextime will be subject to the grievance or  
arbitration process.  
The parties to any local agreements do not have the authority to establish  
a procedure that violates any provision of the collective bargaining agree-  
ment. Should it later be determined that a locally agreed procedure is, in  
fact, a violation of the collective bargaining agreement, the Companies  
will not incur any liability for that violation.  
214  
This agreement is not subject to the grievance or arbitration process and  
may be canceled by either party with thirty (30) days written notice.  
Effective Date: With ratification  
Termination Date: With the Conclusion Article of the 2001  
### Collective Bargaining Agreement  
Applies to:  
Pacific Bell  X SBC Services, Inc. X  
Nevada Bell X SBC Telecom, Inc. X  
ASI X PB Home Entertainment xX  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: March 23, 2001  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
215  
Mr. Ken Croswell Mr. Reid B. Pearce  
Assistant to the Vice President, Administrative Assistant to  
District 9 the Vice President, District 9  
Communications Workers of America Communications Workers of America 411  
Airport Boulevard 6033 West Century Boulevard  
Burlingame, California 94010 Suite 600  
Los Angeles, California 90045  
Gentlemen:  
This letter supersedes our May 11, 1984 (tab 252) letter regarding moni-  
toring. The reference to TSPS is changed to TOPS. The agreement will con-  
tinue to apply to Pacific Bell only. There is no intent to change the  
agreement which reads as follows:  
Our approach to monitoring and productivity measurements will be based  
on a premise that fosters a work environment that builds on mutual trust and  
respect and that enhances job satisfaction.  
We agree that:  
¢ Remote monitoring for evaluate purposes will be conducted as follows:  
— Done only when all employees in the work group have been notified by  
a visual indicator which will be used only when monitoring is taking  
place.  
— Limited to thirty (30) calls per month for TOPS and fifty (50) for Direc-  
tory Assistance. Monitoring of an employee will take place on no more  
than three days per month and will be limited to one monitoring session  
each day.  
New employees for three (3) months following initial training may  
have double that number taken.  
— Coverage of an employee should take place as soon as is possible, but  
must take place within the same day.  
— No make-up observations will be taken.  
¢ Diagnostic monitoring will be done on a parallel basis at the employee’s  
position to identify individual training needs and provide follow-up to  
ensure training has been effective.  
¢ Parallel monitoring for the purpose of verifying the effectiveness of new  
practices and customer response, etc. will be taken with operator’s who  
agree.  
216  
¢ No employee will be dismissed solely as a result of monitoring unless  
secrecy of communications, fraud, loss of revenue or gross customer  
abuse is involved.  
¢ Service management observations will not be taken.  
Good service to customers and enhanced revenue are of equal importance.  
Productivity measurements will be reviewed with the Union periodically to  
maximize these objectives.  
Monitoring is intended to be used for training and development of opera-  
tors in order to reach their potential and provide good customer service.  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: September 11, 1986  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
217  
Mr. Ken Croswell Mr. Reid B. Pearce  
Assistant to the Vice President, Administrative Assistant to  
District 9 the Vice President, District 9  
Communications Workers of America Communications Workers of America  
411 Airport Boulevard 6033 West Century Boulevard  
Burlingame, California 94010 Suite 600  
Los Angeles, California 90045  
Gentlemen:  
This confirms our understanding of September 11, 1986, with respect to pay  
treatment of certain employees with physical restrictions. This Memoran-  
dum cancels and supersedes our letter dated March 29, 1977, regarding the  
return to work of certain physically restricted employees.  
The pay treatment is as follows:  
If the rate of pay on the new assignment is lower than that of the employee’s  
former job, the employee will be red circled at the employee’s previous rate  
based on the following table:  
Net Credited Service Period of Red Circling  
Under 6 months 0  
6 months to 2 years 2 weeks  
2 years to 5 years 4 weeks  
5 years to 15 years 13 weeks  
15 years to 20 years 26 weeks  
20 years to 25 years 39 weeks  
20 years and over 52 weeks  
Employees will continue to receive their progression increases at the higher  
rate during the period of red circling as well as any general wage increases  
and team awards that become effective during this time. Where applicable,  
the team awards will be prorated according to the Team Award Plan.  
If at the completion of the period of red circling the physical/medical  
restrictions still exist, the employee’s wage rate will be reduced to the  
wage rate of the new assignment.  
This Memorandum of Agreement will only become effective if the collec-  
tive bargaining agreement between the parties embodied in the Memoran-  
dum of Agreement dated August 1, 1986 is ratified by the Union  
218  
membership on or before September 12, 1986. If that Memorandum of  
Agreement is so ratified, this Memorandum of Agreement will become  
effective and may be terminated by either party by giving thirty (30) days  
prior written notice to the other party of its intention to terminate this  
Memorandum of Agreement.  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: September 11, 1986  
219  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
Principles for Sales Incentive Programs  
The Company and the Union agree to the following principles for negoti-  
ating individual sales incentive programs:  
Sales and incentives for sales shall be a win for all stakeholders:  
¢ Customer — good service and the best possible solution to telecom-  
munications needs  
¢ Employee/Union — positive incentive to sell; increased pay oppor-  
tunities, increased employment security and jobs  
¢ Company — increased revenue leading to growth and higher share  
owner value  
Communication to employees (management and non-management) on  
service, sales, and sales incentives must be positive and ongoing:  
¢ Joint union-company communications is best approach  
¢ All service representatives will be trained on product knowledge and  
sales techniques to enhance their sales capabilities in the perform-  
ance of their job  
¢ Communications should emphasize overall good service as well  
as sales  
¢ Communications should focus on both the why and the what of  
sales incentives  
¢ Communications process must include periodic follow-up with serv-  
ice representatives and a feedback mechanism for issues and timely  
resolution of issues  
Ethical sales practices and strict adherence to company policy and/or  
negotiated agreements will not be compromised:  
¢ No tolerance for unethical sales, dishonest behavior, or behavior that  
promotes unethical sales or dishonest behavior  
Individual incentives will be over and above base wages.  
¢ No wages will be at risk  
Sales quotas will not be set for service representatives, however, sales  
goals may be set for service representatives with the following conditions:  
¢ Individuals will not be disciplined for failure to meet sales goals  
220  
Company will continue to train all service representatives on  
product knowledge and sales techniques and provide ongoing  
coaching on the same  
Sales goals will be based on sales opportunities  
Company and Union will work together to place those who do not  
desire to work in a sales environment  
Although sales are a part of the service representative performance  
development process (PDP) standards, under no circumstances will  
sales effectiveness be the sole factor used to determine that an  
employee is not meeting acceptable work performance standards  
Company and Union will work together to find out why people are  
not able to properly use trained sales techniques and figure out how  
to build employee sales capability and/or provide assistance.  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: January 22, 1998  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
221  
Mr. Ken Croswell Mr. Reid B. Pearce  
Assistant to the Vice President, Administrative Assistant to  
District 9 the Vice President, District 9  
Communications Workers of America Communications Workers of America  
411 Airport Boulevard 6033 West Century Boulevard  
Burlingame, California 94010 Suite 600  
Los Angeles, California 90045  
Gentlemen:  
This letter supersedes our prior agreement of August 24, 1983 (old tab  
258) regarding scheduling of employees for Sunday plus Four to reflect the  
current contractual references. This agreement continues and reads as  
follows:  
“Employees defined in Appendix A, Section A1.01, A2.01 and Appen-  
dix B, Section B1.01 subparagraphs A and B may voluntarily waive  
the requirement as stated in Appendix A, Section A1.02J and A2.02I  
and Appendix B, Section B1.03I to be scheduled for Sunday plus four  
additional consecutive days.  
An employee will be scheduled according to the Sunday plus four  
additional consecutive days rule unless the employee notifies his/her  
supervisor of his/her waiver one week prior to the posting of the  
schedule.”  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: September 11, 1986  
222  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### RELOCATION  
This Memorandum of Agreement will confirm our understanding of August  
6, 1995, with respect to reasonable moving costs as provided for in Section  
2.08A of the Contract between Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell and the Commu-  
nications Workers of America. This memorandum cancels and supercedes  
our letter on the same subject dated June 20, 1990.  
Relocation expense reimbursement will be paid to employees who accept  
a Company-initiated transfer to a non-commutable work location. Com-  
pany-initiated transfers are those transfers and reassignments made under  
the provisions of Section 2.05 or Section 2.06 of the Contract. A work  
location shall be considered to be non-commutable as described in Section  
2.08E of the Contract.  
An employee who accepts a Company-initiated transfer to a non-com-  
mutable work location will be eligible for moving expense reimbursement  
if the employee has moved his/her residence to a commutable location (as  
described in Article 2, Section 2.08E of the Contract) or if, in the determi-  
nation of the Companies, the employee has moved his/her residence  
appreciably closer to the new work location.  
1. Relocation expense reimbursement will be paid according to the  
attached schedule, up to a maximum of $12,000.00 or  
2. Acommute allowance of $200 per month will be paid for up to three (3)  
years. Employees who elect the commute allowance in lieu of relocation  
(CILOR) may, within one (1) year from the date of transfer, elect to  
move their residence. In such cases, relocation expenses will be reim-  
bursed in accordance with the attached schedule, up to a maximum of  
$9,600. In no event will the combination of commute allowance and  
moving expenses exceed $12,000.  
This Memorandum of Agreement will also confirm our understanding of  
November 27, 1989, regarding the application of relocation benefits. This  
Memorandum of Agreement supersedes our letter dated December 18,  
1986; however, this Memorandum does not change the intent of that letter,  
which reads as follows:  
“In the event an employee who is commuting to work, on his/her own  
volition, a distance exceeding that which is normally considered com-  
mutable and is subject to a Company-initiated move to a location which is  
also non-commutable but results in a commute that is less than the  
223  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
employee’s previous commute, the employee will not be entitled to  
relocation benefits including CILOR.  
However, if an employee, under similar circumstances, is subject to a Com-  
pany-initiated move which results in a commute greater than that which the  
employee previously experienced, the employee will be entitled to reloca-  
tion benefits should the employee decide to move his/her residence within  
one year of the effective date of the Company-initiated move, or CILOR.”  
Effective date/language: Upon ratification of the Contract.  
Termination date/language: In accordance with the conclusion Article of the  
currently effective collective bargaining agreement  
between Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell and the  
Communications Workers of America.  
Coverage: Pacific Bell Yes  
Nevada Bell Yes  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: August 8, 1995  
224  
### ATTACHMENT  
### RELOCATION EXPENSE TREATMENT — CWA  
### EXPLORATORY TRIP TO NEW LOCATION  
A. Mileage Standard  
Lo ee Company rate  
B. Per Diem (meal and miscellaneous). . $30/day  
C. Lodging-actual, not to exceed. .... $75/day maximum  
D. Exploratory trip, not to exceed... .. 5 days maximum  
E. Immediate family members may go  
on Exploratory Trip. Expense  
treatment as follows:  
— Spouse meals — actual, not to exceed $15/day  
— Children under 12 years — actual,  
not toexceed............. $7.50/day  
— Children over 12 years — actual,  
not toexceed............. $15/day  
— Lodging/spouse — actual, additional  
not toexceed............. $10/day max.  
— Lodging/children — actual, additional  
nottoexceed............. $5/day max.  
— Babysitter for children — actual  
documented costs, not to exceed. . . $25/day  
### TEMPORARY LIVING  
Lump sum amount of $4,750 in lieu of receipted expenses.  
### MOVING OF HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS  
Arrangements made through Relocation office. Actual expenses  
reimbursed  
### EN ROUTE EXPENSES  
Expense treatment same as during Exploratory Trip. Mileage at  
Standard Company Rate for a maximum of 2 cars.  
En route expense normally reimbursed for a maximum of 1 night’s  
lodging 2 days’ meals.  
225  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
### 5. MOBILE HOMES  
Cash allowance for moving mobile home in lieu of reimbursement  
for moving household. Cash allowance determined by Relocation  
Coordinator. Allowance will not exceed estimated cost of moving  
employee’s personal household furnishings that are in the mobile  
home.  
### 6. MISCELLANEOUS  
Documented loss of rent, including. ... . Up to $500  
penalties associated with leases, with  
business transfer termination privileges.  
Home/Apartment Finding Service Fee . . . Up to $200  
(e.g., Relocation Consultants)  
### 7. DISCOUNTED MORTGAGE RATES  
Provide the name of a national lender who will offer discounted  
mortgage rates to qualified employees.  
### 8. PURCHASE/RENTAL ALLOWANCE  
Allowance to those who relocate and .. . $1,000  
purchase a residence or who rent their  
primary residence.  
### MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT RATE  
Per Article 5, Section 5.05C4c of the 1995 Agreement, employees shall  
be reimbursed at the rate of thirty cents ($.30) per mile for mileage  
incurred on or after March 1, 1995.  
In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) changes the  
reimbursement rate for mileage, the Companies will adjust the mileage  
reimbursement rate to the maximum allowable rate. The Companies will  
determine and inform the Union of the date on which employees will  
begin receiving any new mileage reimbursement rate.  
226  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
The Companies prefer to have employees in the bargaining unit perform  
traditional telephone work. However, when the Companies determine that  
it is necessary to subcontract that type of work, the Companies agree to the  
following:  
1. The Companies will provide notice to the appropriate Union Local  
before contracting out work when the contracting project is anticipated  
to last more than ninety (90) days and to discuss the reasons for the con-  
tracting.  
2. To carefully consider the use of union-represented contractors to  
perform traditional telephone work with the understanding that the  
selection of any contractor is determined solely by the Companies.  
3. From time to time, but no less frequently than every six (6) months, the  
Vice President—Labor Relations, the Business Unit Presidents, or next  
level of management below if the Presidential level does not exist for  
that organization, and the Vice President—District 9, or their designated  
representatives, will meet to discuss the issue of subcontracting and its  
impact on employees. In addition, this committee may review situations  
where contractors are performing traditional telephone work and the  
work is expected to continue long-term and discuss appropriate solu-  
tions.  
4. The Vice President—Labor Relations and the Vice President—District 9  
will also establish a joint committee to examine work previously per-  
formed by bargaining unit employees to determine if it would serve the  
interests of both parties to have the work brought back into the Compa-  
nies. The joint committee should be formed within 60 days following  
ratification and have their first meeting within 90 days following ratifi-  
cation. The joint committee shall make recommendations to the Vice  
President—Labor Relations and the Vice President—District 9 within 90  
days of holding such meeting. The Union members of the joint com-  
mittee will be paid in accordance with Section 3.02B of the current col-  
lective bargaining agreement.  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
5. The Companies will provide the Union a monthly report regarding the  
contracting of bargaining unit jobs. The report will include:  
  
The name of the contractor.  
The type of jobs being contracted.  
The estimated number of jobs being contracted.  
The location of the contracted work.  
The length of the contract and duration of the work at each  
location.  
Any claims of non-compliance with the terms of this Agreement may be  
immediately escalated, in writing to the National Union’s Area Director and  
Labor Relations Executive Director. If they are unable to resolve the issue,  
the Union may, within thirty (30) calendar days of the escalation, notify the  
Company of their intent to arbitrate issues of non-compliance with this  
Agreement.  
Effective Date: With ratification  
Termination Date: With the Conclusion Article of the 2001  
### Collective Bargaining Agreement  
Applies to:  
Pacific Bell X SBC Services, Inc. X  
Nevada Bell X SBC Telecom, Inc. X  
ASI X PB Home Entertainment xX  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: March 23, 2001  
228  
The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company (Company) has the respon-  
sibility for providing high-quality telephone service to the public. This  
includes not only the proper functioning of equipment but such things as  
accuracy, completeness, promptness, courtesy and helpfulness of employ-  
ees in business transactions with customers. It is agreed by the Company  
and the Communications Workers of America (Union) that appropriate  
procedures will be used to meet this obligation.  
In addition, the Company and the Union agree that the laws with respect to  
secrecy of communications must be followed, and that both have an obli-  
gation to prevent any acts by employees which tend to perpetrate fraud,  
violate secrecy or cause loss of revenue.  
It is agreed that supervisory monitoring as defined and referred to in CPUC  
Decision No. 73146 may be used to achieve the above objectives.  
As defined, “Supervisory monitoring” is used by telephone companies to  
train and supervise individual employees in their performance of telephone  
service assignments.  
Under CPUC Decision No. 73146, supervisory monitoring is permitted  
without notice (i.e., without a “beep tone”) when performed without the  
making of any written notation or any record of the contents, substance,  
purpose, effect, or meaning of any conversation (which includes the  
employee’s conversation) which may have been heard during said super-  
visory monitoring.  
A person performing supervisory monitoring may not disclose to anyone  
(including supervisory personnel and the observed employee) any part of  
any conversation overheard while performing such supervisory monitoring.  
The Company is obligated to insure, by proper training and direction of its  
supervisory people, that supervisory monitoring is properly used. To insure  
that this is done the Company agrees to train its supervisory people in the  
implementation of this Agreement covering the use of supervisory moni-  
toring as follows:  
a. Record of supervisory monitoring will be made on check-off  
type summary sheets recording only technical details and manner  
of job performance. No written notations of a conversation will  
be made except as absolutely necessary to protect secrecy of  
communications or to prevent fraud or loss of revenue.  
b. When a record of a job discussion between a Traffic or Central  
Office Manager, or other supervisor and the observed employee  
229  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
is made, it will not include the contents, substance, purpose,  
effect, or meaning of any observed conversation, unless secrecy  
of communications, fraud, or loss of revenue is involved. An  
employee shall be permitted to review his/her personnel record  
upon his/her request.  
c. Supervisory monitoring may be used to determine training needs  
and to evaluate the grade of service of individual employees.  
Other supervisory steps, such as training sessions, visual obser-  
vation, individual discussions and coaching shall be used in addi-  
tion to supervisory monitoring to evaluate and improve an  
employee’s performance.  
d. Employees subject to supervisory monitoring will be so advised.  
e. Supervisory monitoring will be done only in the quarters where  
the employee is working.  
This Agreement does not preclude the Union’s right of grievance procedure  
and/or arbitration as set forth in the Agreement between the parties.  
This Agreement may be terminated by either party in accordance with the  
appropriate Collective Bargaining Agreement covering Wages, Hours and  
Working Conditions for bargaining unit employees represented by the  
Union.  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: October 12, 1971  
230  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### SUPERVISORY MONITORING — SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES  
This Memorandum of Agreement confirms the understanding between the  
Company and the Union regarding Supervisory Monitoring for Service  
Representatives in Pacific Bell.  
Supervisory monitoring will be conducted as follows:  
Done only when all employees in the work group have been notified  
by a visual indicator which will be used only when monitoring is  
taking place.  
Monitoring used for evaluative or disciplinary purposes shall be  
limited to no more than 10 calls per month. Such monitoring of an  
employee will take place no more than two days per month and will  
be limited to one monitoring session each day.  
New employees for six (6) months following initial training will  
have no limit to the number of calls monitored.  
Coverage of an employee should take place as soon as possible, but  
must take place within 24 hour of the call being monitored.  
No employee will be dismissed solely as a result of monitoring  
unless secrecy of communications, fraud or gross customer abuse is  
involved.  
Simultaneous monitoring will be used solely for coaching and  
development of management personnel and will be done only with  
the concurrence of the monitored employee.  
Monitoring that is performed by anyone other than management  
shall be used for coaching and development and may not be used for  
evaluative or disciplinary purposes. Employees receiving Relief  
Differential are not management.  
To facilitate implementation and understanding, the Union and the Com-  
pany recognize the importance of developing a best practices package for  
supervisory monitoring. To assure this, we agree to reconvene the Super-  
visory Monitoring Joint Committee to develop a best practices for super-  
visory monitoring package. The Supervisory Monitoring Joint Committee  
will have the best practices package developed by December 31, 1995. The  
Union and the Company also agree that common definitions are important  
and further agree that the terms listed in the attached Glossary of Terms will  
have the meanings stated there.  
231  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
Effective date/language: Upon the ratification of the Contract.  
Termination date/language: This Memorandum of Agreement will be subject to  
termination in accordance with the Conclusion Article  
of the currently effective collective bargaining  
agreement between Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell.  
Coverage:  
Pacific Bell Yes  
Nevada Bell No  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: August 8, 1995  
232  
### SUPERVISORY MONITORING JOINT COMMITTEE  
### GLOSSARY OF TERMS  
Monitoring — A third party listening to both sides of the telephone conver-  
sation between two other parties.  
Administrative Monitoring — A random sampling that provides the utility  
with an overall evaluation or index of the quality of service provided by  
an office or work group without reference to or identification of an  
individual employee.  
Supervisory Monitoring — Monitoring to train and supervise individual  
employees in their performance of telephone service assignments.  
Simultaneous Monitoring — Two or more managers monitoring the same  
call. This activity is used solely for coaching and development of  
management personnel and is done only with the concurrence of the  
monitored employee.  
Deskside — Monitoring that is done at the desk of the employee being  
monitored.  
Remote — Monitoring that is done away from the desk of the employee  
being monitored, but within the same general work area.  
Development — Any activity focused on improving or enhancing an  
employee’s performance or behavior.  
Coach — One who guides and directs performance growth and development.  
Discipline — Any action taken by the coach which carries negative  
consequences for non-performance.  
Gross Customer Abuse — Use of profanity and ethnic or sexual slurs that  
obviously causes the customer distress.  
233  
R=  
faa  
4  
ir)  
faa  
hae  
  
25  
|  
   
### NOTES  
234  
### NATIONAL SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT  
The Communications Workers of America and SBC Operations, Inc., on  
behalf of the subsidiaries of SBC Communications Inc. listed in Attachment  
7 to the attached SBC Bargaining Agreement, hereby agree that the respec-  
tive 2004 labor agreements between them (“regional agreements”) shall  
incorporate the provisions set out herein as follows:  
I.  
Il.  
Il.  
### IV.  
### VI.  
The affected provisions of each of the regional agreements shall be  
amended to incorporate the changes and additions set forth in the  
attached SBC Wage Agreement.  
The provisions of the existing SBC pension benefit plans shall con-  
tinue in full force and effect subject to the changes and additions set  
forth in the attached SBC Pension Agreement. If applicable, the  
affected provisions of each of the regional agreements shall be  
amended to incorporate the changes and additions set forth in the  
attached SBC Pension Agreement.  
The provisions of the existing SBC medical, dental, vision, adoption  
and life insurance benefit plans shall continue in full force and effect  
subject to the changes and additions set forth in the attached SBC  
Health Agreement. If applicable, the affected provisions of each of the  
regional agreements shall be amended to incorporate the changes and  
additions set forth in the attached SBC Health Agreement.  
The affected provisions of each of the regional agreements shall be  
amended to incorporate the changes and additions set forth in the  
attached Employment Security Agreement.  
To the extent that this National Settlement Agreement is inconsistent  
or in conflict with the terms of any existing regional Memorandum of  
Agreement or other local agreement, the provisions of the National  
Settlement Agreement shall control.  
The respective regional agreements shall include such contract lan-  
guage changes as may be required to implement the provisions of this  
National Settlement Agreement, together with such changes in the  
respective regional agreements as have been negotiated by and  
between the parties’ regional bargaining committees. The effective  
date of this agreement and the regional agreements is April 4, 2004.  
However, to the extent individual terms of this agreement have effec-  
tive or applicable dates other than April 4, 2004, the dates specified in  
or related to those terms govern. The effective dates of all matters  
235  
   
=  
  
So  
=  
=  
a  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
agreed to in the regional agreements shall be the dates set forth in those  
regional agreements.  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS — SBC OPERATIONS, INC.  
### OF AMERICA  
### BY BY_ AL ACL  
Date 21, Date Tay. F, aes  
   
236  
### SBC/CWA  
### BARGAINING AGREEMENT  
SBC Wage Agreement  
SBC agrees to wage increases in the four (4) Telco Contracts as follows:  
1% lump sum payment in 2004, of the employee’s weekly or bi-  
weekly wage rate at the time of ratification, annualized (52  
weeks), without differentials, paid on or before the second pay  
check after ratification.  
2% increase to base wages effective 4/4/04. The wage schedules  
for each job title will be modified to reflect this increase, across  
the board. The retroactive wages from 4/4/04 to the date of rati-  
fication will be paid as soon as practicable after ratification.  
2.5% increase to base wages effective 4/3/05. The wage sched-  
ules for each job title will be modified to reflect this increase,  
across the board.  
$250 lump sum payment, paid by 4/14/06 and a 2.5% increase to  
base wages effective 4/2/06. The wage schedules for each job title  
will be modified to reflect this increase, across the board.  
$375 lump sum payment, paid by 4/13/07, and a 2.25% increase  
to base wages effective 4/1/07. The wage schedules for each job  
title will be modified to reflect this increase, across the board*  
$375 lump sum payment, paid by 4/11/08, and a 2.25% increase  
to base wages effective 4/6/08. The wage schedules for each job  
title will be modified to reflect this increase, across the board*  
*COLA at 36 and 48 months will be calculated as follows:  
a)  
b)  
the amount of the April 1, 2007 adjustment shall be 0.7 times the  
increase above two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) in the U.S.  
Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics “CPI-W” (1982-  
84 = 100) for December 2006 over December 2005. It will be  
applied to the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on  
March 31, 2007.  
the amount of the April 6, 2008 adjustment shall be 0.7 times the  
increase above two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) in the U.S.  
Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics “CPI-W” (1982-  
84 = 100) for December 2007 over December 2006. It will be  
237  
   
=  
=  
So  
=  
=  
=  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
applied to the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on  
April 5, 2008.  
Payments to Retirees  
1. All retirees eligible to enroll in a Company medical option as of the  
effective date of this agreement (or their estate) shall be eligible to  
receive payments.  
. There shall be two payments, one on or about, but in any event no  
later than 12/31/04 and one on or about, but in any event no later than  
12/31/05.  
The aggregate retiree payment shall be equal to but shall not exceed  
the savings generated from 1.00% of the first year’s general wage  
paid in the form of a lump sum, which is determined to be $1,250  
per retiree per payment.  
SBC Pension Agreement  
Amend existing benefit plans  
¢ Amend the following Pension Plans effective 1/1/05 unless otherwise  
noted:  
SBC Pension Benefit Plan-Bargained Program  
Ameritech Pension Plan  
Pacific Telesis Group Pension Plan  
SNET Pension Plan  
Pension Band Increases  
Increase pension bands for all employees, as follows:  
3% effective January 1, 2005  
2.5% effective January 1, 2006  
2.5% effective January 1, 2007  
2.25% effective January 1, 2008 plus the applicable COLA  
adjustment made to wages (April 1, 2007)  
2.25% effective January 1, 2009 plus the applicable COLA  
adjustment made to wages (April 6, 2008)  
Bonus payments in 2006, 2007, and 2008 shall be included in the  
supplemental pension calculations.  
238  
### GATT Rate  
¢ The following shall be applicable to all references and uses of GATT  
interest rate under each of the bargained pension plans (Attachment 1)  
¢ The applicable rate shall be determined annually, and it shall be the  
GATT rate from November of the prior year  
— For Southwest and West regions — annual GATT replaces the  
quarterly GATT rate  
— In East region, effective May 1, 2004, the rate would be changed to  
the annual GATT rate for the following purposes:  
¢ For the formula for calculating “the GATT rate plus 150 basis  
points” for purposes of interest credits on Cash Balance  
¢ Conversion of cash balance account to the age 65 annuity  
benefit, and  
¢ Conversion of the age 65 annuity benefit to a discounted imme-  
diately payable annuity  
¢ All other references that currently use the annual GATT rate —  
no change  
¢ However, through 2005, Southwest and West participants will receive  
the greater benefit that results from using the annual GATT rate or the  
current quarterly GATT rate methodology  
¢ For East, the conversion of non-GATT interest rates to GATT interest  
rates will require the creation of floor retirement benefits as of the date  
of conversion  
¢ Ifthe 30 year Treasury Security rate ceases to be published, the parties  
will establish a joint committee to discuss and mutually agree on a  
formula to determine the lump sum interest rate  
Lump Sum Pension Repayment Option Upon Recall from Layoff  
¢« Amend all Regional Pension Plans to allow employee to repay a lump  
sum distribution according to following rules:  
— Repayment of lump sum (plus interest) must be within 90 days of  
being placed on the payroll following rehire from a layoff or recall  
from a layoff  
— Interest @ 8.5%  
   
=  
=  
So  
=  
=  
=  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
239  
— Implement as soon as administratively feasible and subject to  
Company receipt of favorable determination from IRS (ensures  
that repaid monies are considered employer contributions and tax  
qualified status is maintained)  
For Southwest:  
Amend the SBC Pension Benefit Plan — Bargained Program to provide a  
single lump sum:  
— distribution option for Service Pensions with a pension effective  
date on and after January 1, 2005 and before January 1, 2010, includ-  
ing a Service Pension into which a Disability Pension is converted  
when the disability pensioner turns age 65.  
— pre-retirement survivor benefit for an employee who dies on or after  
January 1, 2005 and before January 1, 2010.  
For East:  
Amend SNET Pension Plan as follows:  
¢ Interest credits on Cash Balance shall be the greater of 7 percent or  
GATT rate plus 150 basis points for the term of the Agreement, and  
4 percent thereafter  
¢ Effective 1/1/05, adopt a new Annual Pension Credit Table that:  
For East:  
incorporates the compliance overlay table  
consolidates service ranges resulting in increased pay credits  
pay credits rounded to $25  
implements pay brackets for pay greater than $67,500 (for all  
service ranges)  
(Attachment 2)  
¢ Improve the contributions under the Annual Pension Credit Table.  
A Participant’s pay bracket shall be determined based on Pay Rates as  
shown below:  
Rates as of October 3, 2004, for basic credits in 2005  
Rates as of October 2, 2005, for basic credits in 2006  
Rates as of October 1, 2006, for basic credits in 2007  
Rates as of October 7, 2007, for basic credits in 2008  
240  
— Rates as of October 5, 2008, for basic credits in 2009,  
plus actual commissions paid to Employees of SNET Information  
Services, Inc. during the 12 month period prior to:  
— October 3, 2004, for basic service credits for January 1, 2005  
through December 31, 2005  
— October 2, 2005, for basic service credits for January 1, 2006  
through December 31, 2006  
— October 1, 2006, for basic service credits for January 1, 2007  
through December 31, 2007  
— October 7, 2007, for basic service credits for January 1, 2008  
through December 31, 2008  
— October 5, 2008, for basic service credits for January 1, 2009  
through December 31, 2009,  
plus special lump sum wage payment paid in 2004, the lump sum wage  
payments that are paid to a participant in 2006, 2007, and 2008, Team  
Performance Award Plan payments and Stock Appreciation payments  
paid in February 2005, February 2006, February 2007, February 2008,  
and February 2009.  
Provide that the Cash Balance Plan Account (CBPA) Enhanced Annuity  
will be available for retirements on and after 01/01/05  
— for any Regular Employee who, at termination of employment, (a)  
either has 30 years of service or is age 55 or older with 20 or more  
years of service, and (b) is under age 65, the monthly single life  
annuity shall be no less than the CBPA as of the benefit commence-  
ment date divided by 119.04.  
Provide that on or after July 1, 2004, if an employee is promoted or  
transferred to a new job title or classification for which the applicable  
annual Pension Service Credit would be higher than that for the  
employee’s previously held position, and the employee remains con-  
tinuously employed in the new position for six (6) months, the  
employee’s Cash Balance Pension Account will be credited with a spe-  
cial one-time promotion credit.  
The amount of the special promotion credit will be based solely on the  
employee’s net credited service, annualized salary rates of the old and  
new jobs, and Annual Pension Service Credit Table, as of the date of  
promotion or transfer to a new job title or classification, and will be  
241  
   
=  
  
So  
=  
=  
a  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
equal to the difference between the applicable annual Pension Service  
Credit for the new job and the applicable annual Pension Service Credit  
for the old job, multiplied by the employee’s net credited service.  
For employees of SNET Information Services, Inc., annualized salary  
rates of the old and new jobs shall include the employee’s commission  
amount, if any, used in determination of the annual Pension Service  
Credit in effect as of the date of promotion or transfer.  
The special promotion credit will be credited to the employee’s account  
effective in the month immediately following the month in which the  
employee attains six (6) months in the new position.  
Deemed IRA  
Will be referred to the Presidential Council for discussion and consideration.  
SBC Health Agreement  
Amend existing benefit plans  
Amend Regional Medical Plans effective 1/1/05 unless otherwise  
noted  
— Ameritech CHCP  
— PTG Health Care Network Plan  
— SBC MGLIP - CustomCare  
### — SNET POS  
¢ Amend Other Regional Benefit Plans (Dental, Vision, Adoption,  
CarePlus and Life Insurance) effective 1/1/05 unless otherwise noted  
All changes noted below apply to active employees. In addition these  
changes will apply through 2009 to those employees who retire during  
the life of this agreement.  
A. Regional Medical Plans  
1. Working Spouse Contributions  
No monthly contributions except working spouse contributions,  
which are $40 per month for spouses who have access to cover-  
age from their employer and do not take it and meet both of the  
following conditions: 1) the spouse earns more than $25,000 per  
year, and 2) the spouse’s monthly contribution rate (individual  
rate) for such coverage would have been less than $75 per month.  
242  
2. Network and ONA medical/surgical benefits  
(see table below for Non-network)  
a.  
b.  
Office Visits — all  
### (PCP & SCP)  
[Notes 1, 2, 3, 4]  
Office visit copays at $15 — 2005, 2006; $20 — 2007  
Emergency room copay at $50 — 2005, 2006, 2007;  
$75 — 2008  
POS Plans  
(Network/ONA)  
PPO and NonPPO POS Plans (NonNetwork)  
$15 copay 2005, 2006  
$20 copay 2007 No change  
Hospital Emergency Room = $50 copay 2005, 2006, 2007 $50 copay 2005, 2006, 2007  
[Notes 1, 2, 3, 4]  
Notes:  
$75 copay 2008 $75 copay 2008  
1. Copays above do not accumulate toward deductibles or out-of-pocket maximums  
2. Current copays exceeding those amounts listed above will not be reduced  
3. Urgent Care Facility is treated like an Office Visit  
4. Any existing coinsurance also applies  
3. Prescription drug benefits  
a.  
b.  
$50 annual out of Network retail deductible  
3-tier copayments — Network retail: $5/15/25 and Mail order:  
$10/30/50. Copays will increase according to the table below.  
Non-network pharmacy: participant pays the greater of the  
applicable Network copay or balance remaining after the Plan  
pays 75%  
. Out of pocket maximums (OOP max)  
¢ $750 single; $1500 family  
¢ Only copays for generic and formulary drugs count towards  
OOP max  
Maintenance prescriptions are required to be filled at mail  
after the first fill at retail  
If brand prescriptions are chosen when a generic equivalent is  
available, company contribution is limited to the cost of the  
generic less the applicable copay (the participant must pay the  
243  
   
=  
  
So  
=  
=  
a  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
generic copay plus the cost difference between the generic  
and the brand). Exception: a formulary or nonformulary  
copay shall apply when a participant provides written docu-  
mentation from the prescribing provider that confirms that all  
generic alternatives have been considered and the brand drug  
is the only effective and safe treatment for the patient.  
Specialty pharmacy program applies  
. Nonformulary drug - appeal process  
Plan participants will be charged formulary copays for non-  
formulary prescriptions under the following circumstances:  
1. Those participants who have tried all generic and formu-  
lary alternatives may file an appeal requesting the lower  
formulary copay be applied toward their nonformulary  
drug — the appeal will be granted with a 365-day formulary  
copay if: 1) electronic records at the PBM confirm that the  
participant has filled scripts for all available generic and  
formulary alternatives within the preceding 90 days, and  
2) the participant provides written documentation from  
the prescribing provider that confirms the nonformulary  
drug is the only effective treatment.  
2. Those participants who cannot take any of the generic or  
formulary alternatives because of known drug interactions  
between those alternatives and other prescription drugs  
they are taking and whose doctor as a result prescribes a  
nonformulary drug, may file an appeal requesting the  
lower formulary copay be applied toward their nonfor-  
mulary drug. The appeal will be granted with a 365-day  
formulary copay if: 1) electronic records at the PBM con-  
firm the participant is taking one or more prescription  
drugs with known drug interactions with the generic and  
formulary alternatives, and 2) the participant provides  
written documentation from the prescribing provider that  
confirms the nonformulary drug is the only effective  
treatment.  
3. Those participants who provide written documentation  
from the prescribing provider that confirms that all generic  
and formulary alternatives have been considered and the  
244  
2007  
2008  
2009  
nonformulary drug is the only effective and safe treatment  
for the patient.  
h. Infertility Drugs and Smoking Cessation — no change to  
current coverage where it exists.  
Schedule of Prescription Drug Copays — 2007 through 2009  
### RETAIL MAIL  
Non Non  
Generic Formulary Formulary Generic Formulary Formulary  
$7 $17 $27 $14 $34 $54  
$8 $18 $28 $16 $36 $56  
$10 $20 $40 $20 $40 $80  
B. Cleanup issues  
1. Eliminate HMO MH/CD duplication in the West region. A tran-  
sition of care process will be implemented to assure continuity of  
care; including a minimum of six months notice to the patient  
explaining the change.  
2. Eliminate HMO geo/demo adjustments in the Midwest and  
Southwest regions  
3. Common enrollment and effective dates of coverage rules for  
medical, dental, vision, CarePlus, life insurance and adoption  
reimbursement. Maintain current rules regarding default  
coverage in the event employee fails to enroll on a timely basis.  
. Optional Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) Plan  
Provide Midwest PPO benefit levels as an option within the SNET  
POS Plan.  
. National Health Committee  
Establish a National Health Care Committee. Representation from  
the Union will be from the individual Districts as well as the  
National Headquarters staff. The Committee shall meet at least quar-  
terly (by conference call, teleconference or in person). The charter of  
this committee will be to review cost, access and quality issues in the  
bargained health plans in order to identify opportunities and recom-  
mend solutions of mutual benefit to the Company and the Union  
membership to reduce plan cost, enhance plan efficiency, and  
245  
=  
=  
So  
=  
=  
=  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
   
improve plan administration. The focus of this committee will be  
plan performance and not individual participant issues, though par-  
ticipant education may be an outcome. In addition, state and federal  
health policy, legislative and regulatory health issues and develop-  
ments may be addressed by this Committee.  
E. Dental Schedules  
Provide an average 5% increase to applicable Dental schedules.  
F. Medicare Part B Reimbursement  
Delay implementation of the 2001 CWA/SWBT Settlement Agree-  
ment provision to eliminate Medicare Part B reimbursement for  
Class I dependents of retirees. Elimination of this reimbursement  
will become effective for employees whose pension commencement  
date is on or after January 1, 2010.  
Employment Security Agreement  
Evolving Technologies and Traditional Telecom Work: FTTP, VoIP,  
WiFi (and other wireless data technologies)  
See Attachment 3.  
1561 jobs in titles identified as eligible for card check process  
As to these 1561 jobs, the Company will remain neutral on any accretion  
petition if the Company agrees to the labor agreement into which they will  
be accreted.  
Contractor/Supplier/Partner Neutrality  
SBC agrees to send a letter to those SBC suppliers/contractors, requested  
by the union, informing the suppliers/contractors of our positive relation-  
ship with the CWA and encouraging them to strive for constructive  
relationships with their employees.  
Intersubsidiary Movement Process  
Effective January 1, 2005, or as soon thereafter as administratively feasible,  
establish a web based intersubsidiary movement application process. The  
process will allow CWA represented employees of participating companies  
to express an interest in employment with another of the participating  
companies represented by CWA.  
Effective July 1, 2005, or as soon thereafter as administratively feasible,  
establish a Web site for CWA represented employees, that will allow  
246  
employees to view positions for which the participating companies intend  
to consider new hire applicants for placement.  
Attached is a list of the participating companies (Attachment 4)  
For wholly owned subsidiaries, SBC will agree to commit to take qualified  
candidates, as determined by the receiving subsidiary, who are designated  
surplus employees before hiring off the street. SBC will also agree to use  
our best efforts to encourage other subsidiaries where we are not in a posi-  
tion to direct implementation of this policy to voluntarily implement the  
same procedures.  
Employees transferring from one SBC wholly-owned subsidiary to another  
wholly-owned subsidiary shall be given credit for all service with SBC or  
any of its wholly-owned subsidiaries under each benefit plan, program or  
policy (e.g., vacation) in which such transferred employee is eligible to par-  
ticipate for purposes of eligibility, vesting and benefit accrual, consistent  
with current procedures that avoid duplication of benefits. In all cases of  
intersubsidiary movement, severance will be paid by the former company  
only if service credit is not given by the receiving company.  
CWA Nett  
Within 30 days of ratification, and each quarter thereafter and for the life  
of the contract, SBC agrees to promote the CWA Nett Academy training  
program, as an available option under the existing regional programs. In  
addition, the Company will arrange to have CWA meet with the appropriate  
training personnel about the CWA Nett.  
Presidential Council (Attachment 5)  
The Company proposes the Presidential Council be expanded and charged  
with addressing the following issues related to future technologies:  
the extent to which represented employees can perform, consistent with  
the competitive nature of these business lines, a greater portion of the  
emerging technology work, such as WiFi, VoIP, FTTP, and other  
developing technologies;  
the general nature of new technologies and product offerings;  
SBC’s affiliations, partnerships and joint marketing programs;  
the joint identification of subject matter experts who can assist the  
Presidential Council in addressing these issues.  
247  
=  
=  
So  
=  
=  
=  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
   
Successorship in any exchange sale  
Company agrees that in any agreement to sell a portion of its assets in a  
transaction involving the transfer of employees subject to this collective  
bargaining agreement, it shall require, as a condition of the closing of such  
sale, that the Buyer agree to enter into a substitute collective bargaining  
agreement(s) with respect to the employees subject to the Collective  
Bargaining Agreement on economic terms no less favorable to such  
employees than those currently contained in this Collective Bargaining  
Agreement, and, Buyer shall either (1) enter into such substitute collective  
bargaining agreement(s) effective as of the Closing or (ii) if no such sub-  
stitute agreement is reached as of the Closing, agree to provide the employ-  
ees with the economic benefits currently contained in this Collective  
Bargaining Agreement from the Closing until such time as a substitute  
collective bargaining agreement is negotiated with the CWA.  
SBC Internet Services  
California Internet contract to be resolved with progression schedule  
costing less than $500,000. National contract based on California language  
& California health care co-pay rates.  
Amendments to the Memorandum of Agreement regarding Neutrality  
& Card Check Recognition  
See Attachment 6.  
248  
Attachment 1  
Annual GATT Rate Uses  
(in addition to uses previously listed)  
GATT rates* currently used in all Regions for:  
— Lump sum calculations  
— Calculation of QDRO offsets  
— Interest on payments of lump sums that are repaid pursuant to MPA  
— Calculation of § 415 limits  
East Region also uses GATT rates** for:  
— Determination of opening CBPA for rehires  
— Determination of EPB core pension lump sum benefit  
— Calculation of statutory minimum lump sum  
*Southwest and West currently use quarterly GATT rates;  
East and Midwest already use annual GATT rates — no change  
**Fast already uses annual GATT rates — no change  
=  
=  
So  
=  
=  
=  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
   
249  
Attachment 2  
SNET Annual Pension Credit Table  
Pay Bracket  
Less Than  
$ 20,000 to  
$ 22,500 to  
$ 25,000 to  
$ 27,500 to  
$ 30,000 to  
$ 32,500 to  
$ 35,000 to  
$ 37,500 to  
$ 40,000 to  
$ 42,500 to  
$ 45,000 to  
$ 47,500 to  
$ 50,000 to  
$ 52,500 to  
$ 55,000 to  
$ 57,500 to  
$ 60,000 to  
$ 62,500 to  
$ 65,000 to  
$ 67,500 to  
$ 70,000 to  
$ 72,500 to  
$ 75,000 to  
$ 77,500 to  
$ 80,000 to  
$ 82,500 to  
$ 85,000 to  
$ 87,500 to  
$ 90,000 to  
$ 92,500 to  
$ 95,000 to  
$ 97,500 to  
$100,000 to  
$ 20,000  
$ 22,500  
$ 25,000  
$ 27,500  
$ 30,000  
$ 32,500  
$ 35,000  
$ 37,500  
$ 40,000  
$ 42,500  
$ 45,000  
$ 47,500  
$ 50,000  
$ 52,500  
$ 55,000  
$ 57,500  
$ 60,000  
$ 62,500  
$ 65,000  
$ 67,500  
$ 70,000  
$ 72,500  
$ 75,000  
$ 77,500  
$ 80,000  
$ 82,500  
$ 85,000  
$ 87,500  
$ 90,000  
$ 92,500  
$ 95,000  
$ 97,500  
$100,000  
$102,500  
0-4  
900  
929  
600  
630  
725  
7715  
830  
925  
$1,050  
$1,175  
$1,300  
$1,425  
$1,950  
$1,675  
$1,800  
$1,925  
$1,975  
$2,075  
$2,175  
$2,275  
$2,375  
$2,475  
$2,975  
$2,650  
$2,750  
$2,825  
$2,925  
$3,000  
$3,100  
$3,175  
$3,275  
$3,350  
$3,450  
$3,925  
Se  
0-9  
600  
625  
700  
19  
850  
925  
$1,000  
$1,100  
$1,250  
$1,400  
$1,550  
$1,700  
$1,825  
$1,975  
$2,125  
$2,225  
$2,325  
$2,450  
$2,950  
$2,625  
$2,750  
$2,850  
$2,950  
$3,050  
$3,150  
$3,250  
$3,350  
$3,450  
$3,950  
$3,650  
$3,750  
$3,850  
$3,950  
$4,050  
Se  
10-13  
$ 700  
$ 725  
$ 825  
$ 900  
$ 975  
$1,075  
$1,150  
$1,300  
$1,450  
$1,625  
$1,800  
$1,975  
$2,150  
$2,325  
$2,475  
$2,600  
$2,725  
$2,875  
$2,975  
$3,075  
$3,200  
$3,325  
$3,450  
$3,979  
$3,675  
$3,800  
$3,925  
$4,025  
$4,150  
$4,275  
$4,400  
$4,900  
$4,625  
$4,750  
250  
14-18  
§ 850  
$ 875  
$1,000  
$1,100  
$1,200  
$1,300  
$1,400  
$1,575  
$1,775  
$1,975  
$2,200  
$2,400  
$2,600  
$2,825  
$3,025  
$3,175  
$3,325  
$3,475  
$3,625  
$3,750  
$3,900  
$4,050  
$4,200  
$4,350  
$4,475  
$4,625  
$4,775  
$4,900  
$5,050  
$5,200  
$5,350  
$5,475  
$5,625  
$5,775  
19-23  
$1,050  
$1,100  
$1,225  
$1,375  
$1,900  
$1,625  
$1,750  
$1,925  
$2,200  
$2,450  
$2,725  
$2,975  
$3,200  
$3,900  
$3,775  
$3,950  
$4,125  
$4,325  
$4,900  
$4,675  
$4,875  
$9,075  
$9,200  
$9,425  
$9,600  
$9,800  
$9,975  
$6,150  
$6,325  
$6,900  
$6,700  
$6,875  
$7,050  
$7,225  
24-28  
$1,400  
$1,475  
$1,650  
$1,825  
$2,000  
$2,175  
$2,350  
$2,625  
$2,975  
$3,325  
$3,675  
$4,025  
$4,375  
$4,725  
$9,075  
$9,325  
$9,079  
$0,850  
$6,075  
$6,300  
$6,950  
$6,800  
$7,050  
$7,300  
$7,925  
$7,775  
$8,025  
$8,250  
$8,900  
$8,750  
$9,000  
$9,225  
$9,475  
$9,725  
29-and  
over  
$ 1,500  
$ 1,575  
$ 1,775  
$ 1,950  
$ 2,150  
$ 2,325  
$ 2,525  
$ 2,800  
$ 3,175  
$ 3,550  
$ 3,925  
$ 4,300  
$ 4,675  
$ 5,050  
$ 5,425  
$ 5,675  
$ 5,950  
$ 6,225  
$ 6,500  
$ 6,750  
$ 7,025  
$ 7,300  
$ 7,550  
$ 7,825  
$ 8,075  
$ 8,350  
$ 8,600  
$ 8,850  
$ 9,125  
$ 9,375  
$ 9,650  
$ 9,900  
$10,150  
$10,425  
SNET Annual Pension Credit Table (continued)  
29-and  
Pay Bracket 0-4 5-9 10-13 14-18 19-23 24-28 over  
$102,500 to $105,000 $3,625 $4150 $4850 $5,900 $7,425 $9,950 $10,675  
$105,000 to $107,500 $3,700 $4250 $4975 $6,050 $7,600 $10,200 $10,950  
$107,500 to $110,000 $3800 $4375 $5,100 $6,200 $7,775 $10,450 $11,200  
$110,000 to $112,500 $3875 $4450 $5,225 $6,350 $7,950 $10,675 $11,450  
$112,500 to $115,000 $3975 $4550 $5,325 $6,500 $8,125 $10,925 $11,725  
$115,000 to $117,500 $4,050 $4675 $5,450 $6,625 $8325 $11,175 $11,975  
$117,500 to $120,000 $4150 $4,775 $5575 $6,775 $8500 $11,425 $12,250  
$120,000 to $122,500 $4225 $4875 $5,700 $6,925 $8675 $11,650 $12,500  
$122,500 to $125,000 $4325 $4,975 $5,800 $7,075 $8850 $11,900 $12,750  
$125,000 to $127,500 $4400 $5,075 $5,925 $7,225 $9,050 $12,150 $13,025  
$130,000 $4500 $5,175 $6,050 $7,350 $9,225 $12,375 $13,275  
$130,000 to $132,500 $4575 $5275 $6175 $7,500 $9,400 $12,625 $13,550  
$132,500 to $135,000 $4675 $5,375 $6,275 $7,650 $9575 $12,875 $13,800  
$135,000 to $137,500 $4,750 $5,475 $6,400 $7,775 $9,750 $13,100 $14,050  
$137,500 & Over $4,850 $5,575 $6,525 $7,925 $9,950 $13,350 $14,325  
   
=  
  
So  
=  
=  
a  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
251  
Attachment 3  
May 25, 2004  
Ms. Dina Beaumont  
Executive Assistant to the President  
Communications Workers of America  
501 Third Street, N.W.  
Washington, D.C. 20001-2797  
Dear Dina:  
The following represents our agreement with respect to Evolving  
Technologies and Traditional Telecom Work: FTTP, VoIP, WiFi (and other  
wireless data technologies). This agreement shall expire on April 4, 2009.  
Much of the work related to the evolving technologies of the telecommu-  
nications industry are extensions of traditional telephone work or copper  
cable switched technology. The new technologies referred to here are Fiber  
to the Premise (FTTP), WiFi and other data services, and Voice over Inter-  
net Protocol (VoIP). Traditional telephone work has been installation, main-  
tenance, network construction & surveillance, repair, customer premise  
work, billing, operator services, sales and service, customer service, and  
technical support. Since the work supporting the new technologies is func-  
tionally related to the work required in the public switched telephone net-  
work (PSTN), the new work will be performed by workers covered by the  
collective bargaining agreements.  
Fiber to the Premise (FTTP)  
Both parties recognize that most FTTP work today is done under the core  
contracts. The parties agree that all non-management FTTP work which  
falls into the comparable categories of traditional telephone work now per-  
formed on the switched network including construction, repair, customer  
service, billing, sales, technical support, terminations, splicing and testing  
will be performed under the core contracts. Construction work that is sim-  
ilar to work that is currently done in the circuit network will continue to be  
performed as it is under the core contracts. For example, the parties recog-  
nize that trenching is work that is traditionally contracted.  
Fiber to the premise shall be CWA bargaining unit work as described below.  
The assignment of fiber to the premise work shall be made just as it is for  
the copper switched network today. As the network evolves to a packet-  
switched fiber network, the core bargaining unit will continue to perform  
252  
the type of work that was previously bargaining unit work in the circuit  
switched network.  
CWA shall be recognized for construction, splicing, testing, terminations of  
fiber to premise/neighborhood or node work and all associated equipment  
required to make fiber operational. Aerial drops to the premise shall be  
CWA-represented work. All other service drops in the fiber network shall  
be done as they are in the circuit-switched network.  
When the customer premise work is performed by SBC, SBC CWA  
employees will do it under the core contracts or DataComm contracts as it  
is done today. If in the view of the Company, the nature of some of the  
customer premise work and interacting with the customer and the required  
set of skills to perform that work require a different craft title, the parties  
agree to meet to bargain an appropriate rate.  
This includes testing, splicing and termination at the interface device as  
well as installing associated equipment to make the fiber functional as  
communications cable at the premise.  
WiFi  
Currently, WiFi (and other wireless data technologies) consists of DSL  
(and high-speed internet) lines installed by SBC CWA-represented employ-  
ees from and including the central office to the customer premise termina-  
tion including the interface device or protector. Terminal equipment is  
installed on the customer premise. As the WiFi business grows, SBC  
expects to expand the work performed by SBC employees. If SBC performs  
the customer premise work, SBC will utilize core or DataComm employ-  
ees for CPE installations. Outside the SBC footprint, SBC may use  
contractors to perform this work. Within the SBC footprint contractors  
may be used on a temporary basis under unusual circumstances. SBC and  
the Union will discuss at the President’s Council the best way to meet  
service and installation commitments and grow the Business. These SBC  
non-management employees shall be represented by CWA or eligible for  
card check recognition. All DSL customer service work associated with  
WiFi (and other wireless data technologies) shall be done by CWA-  
represented employees.  
### VoIP  
To the extent that routers and servers go into the network owned by SBC,  
SBC shall assign that work to the CWA bargaining unit since they perform  
related work in the circuit world. VoIP is an evolution of the PSTN and  
293  
=  
  
So  
=  
=  
a  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
   
comparable work performed today by CWA-represented employees shall be  
performed for VoIP technology. VoIP work in the network and at the prem-  
ises will be performed under the DataComm contracts. As the work transi-  
tions from the circuit switched network, the current core technicians will  
transition with the work. The Company will make training available to  
enable their transition.  
Customer Service  
Tier 1 DSL customer service work is best performed bundled with other  
SBC services. CWA-represented employees will perform this work as well  
as all customer service work for all SBC services. This work shall include  
billing, selling and servicing. This includes Tier II customer service work.  
Currently, EchoStar employees will deal with TV and satellite service  
quality issues and other technical support issues.  
The Union and SBC share similar views about utilizing SBC service reps  
to interface with the customer. CWA-represented employees shall do all  
customer service work of SBC products.  
SBC-represented employees shall sell DSL (and other high-speed internet  
services), VoIP, long distance, and video and service SBC customer  
accounts which include these services.  
The parties will discuss expanding outbound telemarketing jobs within the  
bargaining unit at the President’s Council.  
It is understood that the Company will continue to use sales agents and  
multiple sales channels, e.g., Radio Shack, Best Buy.  
Global Services/DataComm  
Global Services/Datacomm work done today by bargaining unit employees  
will continue per applicable CBA. SBC will not remove work from exist-  
ing CWA bargaining units to non-represented worksites, centers, or  
contractors.  
No bargaining unit employees currently performing Datacomm associated  
work as defined in the FCC OI&M order shall be laid-off.  
SBC concurs that card check applies to non-management employees  
performing work within Global Services/Datacomm including Premier  
Care, Customer Care Centers, and Dedicated Support & Services.  
Where there are mixed units of non-represented and represented Data-  
Comm employees, SBC shall be neutral in any accretion petition filed by  
254  
the Union at the NLRB provided SBC concurs as to which bargaining  
agreement will be applicable to any accreted employees.  
Tier 1 and 2 Customer Contact/Technical Support  
Technical support work today is contracted work through Accenture. At the  
conclusion of the contract (without extension) SBC prefers that its employ-  
ees perform this work. In order to facilitate moving this work to SBC  
employees, in 2006 SBC shall perform cost studies to determine the poten-  
tial wage, benefits, and procedures to perform this work by SBC employ-  
ees. It is the mutual goal of the parties to have this work performed by CWA  
represented employees. This will be discussed at the President’s Council.  
CWA represented employees shall do all Tier Il customer contact/technical  
support work.  
Buried Service Wire  
In order for SBC to compete in buried service wire, it is in both parties’  
interest to negotiate and reach an agreement which will make this business  
### a SUCCESS.  
The Company and the Union agree that they will meet for the purposes of  
negotiating a nationwide collective bargaining agreement.  
In the event the parties are unable to reach final agreement on any element  
of the collective bargaining agreement stated above, the disputed issues will  
be submitted to the Presidents Council for resolution. The Council, at its  
discretion, may submit the issues to a neutral third party for mediation.  
Any and all Buried Service Wire work currently performed in any of the  
core bargaining units will continue to be performed by that unit under the  
terms and conditions of the relevant collective bargaining agreement.  
Video  
Any and all video work currently performed in any of the CWA bargaining  
units will continue to be performed by that unit under the terms and  
conditions of the relevant collective bargaining Agreement.  
It is in both parties’ interest to negotiate and reach an agreement which will  
make this business a success. The parties recognize that this is a competi-  
tive business and that a competitive cost structure will be required to  
succeed.  
SBC shall recognize the Union as the exclusive representative for all non-  
management employees performing work associated with video provided  
the work is performed at an overall cost structure that is competitive.  
295  
=  
=  
So  
=  
=  
=  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
   
Work required to be done by other companies through present or future  
partnerships or alliances with SBC will also continue to be done by such  
other companies if required by contract. Such work will transition to CWA-  
represented employees if permissible and the President’s Council shall  
review its progress.  
Dispute Resolution on Evolving Technologies  
   
If there is no mutual resolution of any dispute at the President’s Council,  
CWA shall have the right to enforce the terms of this agreement through any  
lawful means (other than the grievance or arbitration process), including,  
but not limited to recourse to the National Labor Relations Board, recourse  
to any court of competent jurisdiction, or a combination of any such actions.  
Sincerely,  
(fda wn ge  
256  
Attachment 4  
### CURRENT PARTICIPATING COMPANIES  
### COVERED BY INTERSUBSIDIARY MOVEMENT  
Ameritech Advanced Data Services  
Ameritech Services, Inc.  
Illinois Bell Telephone Company  
Indiana Bell Telephone Company  
Michigan Bell Telephone Company  
Nevada Bell Telephone Company  
Ohio Bell Telephone Company  
Pacific Bell Home Entertainment  
Pacific Bell Long Distance  
Pacific Bell Telephone Company  
SBC Advanced Solutions, Inc. (Southwest, West Regions)  
SBC DataComm, Inc. (Southwest, West Regions)  
SBC Internet Services, Inc. (West Region)  
SBC Long Distance (West Region)  
SBC Messaging California  
SBC Operations, Inc.  
SBC Services, Inc.  
SBC Telecom, Inc. (Southwest, West Regions)  
SNET America, Inc.  
SNET Diversified Group, Inc.  
SNET Yellow Pages  
Southern New England Telecommunications  
Southern New England Telephone  
Southwestern Bell Messaging Services, Inc.  
Southwestern Bell Telephone Company  
Southwestern Bell Video Services, Inc.  
Southwestern Bell Yellow Pages, Inc.  
Wisconsin Bell Telephone Company  
The Woodbury Telephone Company  
   
=  
  
So  
=  
=  
a  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
257  
Attachment 5  
May 25, 2004  
Ms. Dina Beaumont  
Executive Assistant to the President  
Communications Workers of America  
501 Third Street, N.W.  
Washington, D.C. 20001-2797  
Dear Dina:  
As our industry and our company evolve, powerful economic and compet-  
itive dynamics will be at work. While we address many of these dynamics  
in our Evolving Technologies and Traditional Telecom Work agreement,  
further discussion on issues not addressed in this agreement may be nec-  
essary. These include:  
¢ rapid product and service evolution that is driven by highly acceler-  
ated technological progress;  
¢ the rise of facilities-based competitors — especially the largely  
nonunion cable industry — that have a distinct and substantial cost  
advantage in competing for customers;  
* acustomer expectation of highly competitive price points for new  
products and services.  
We acknowledge that it is in our mutual best interest to anticipate these  
financial and market dynamics and to explore how we jointly address them  
in a Satisfactory way.  
SBC agrees with CWA that these new technologies will redefine the com-  
munications industry as we are challenged to provide our customers with  
a broader range of communications vehicles and options.  
We strongly agree that it is in our mutual best interest as a company and a  
union to create a means for more timely, disciplined and formal discussions  
to explore the jobs associated with these new technologies and their impact  
on our company and its employees.  
In light of our mutual recognition that this is a significant and important  
issue for the future of SBC and the CWA, we suggest that the Presidential  
Council that we have jointly established is the ideal vehicle for us to con-  
tinue the formal exchange of information and review of these sorts of  
emerging issues.  
258  
We propose that the Presidential Council be expanded and charged with  
exploring the impact of future technologies in a timely manner. Some ideas  
that come to mind are:  
¢ The union and company could identify subject matter experts who  
can best serve in such a capacity.  
¢ Topics for consideration by the panel could include:  
— SBC’s new technologies and product offerings  
— SBC’s affiliations and partnerships  
— SBC’s joint marketing programs  
We are open to discussing additional ideas the CWA might have to explore  
the impact of new technologies.  
Sincerely,  
  
   
=  
  
So  
=  
=  
a  
=  
oo  
  
inn  
inn  
=  
ino  
=  
—  
259  
Attachment 6  
### AMENDMENTS TO THE  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### REGARDING NEUTRALITY &  
### CARD CHECK RECOGNITION  
SBC Operations, Inc. (“the Company”) and Communications Workers of  
America (“the hereby agree to the following amendments to the  
Memorandum of Agreement (“MOA”) Regarding Neutrality & Card Check  
Recognition, dated October 1, 2002:  
1. Duration. The duration of the MOA shall be extended to April 4, 2009.  
2. New Language shall be added to the MOA as follows:  
The issue of eligibility under the card check agreement needs further  
discussion. At issue is the impact on the Company and the Union of defin-  
ing employees who are defined as non-supervisory under the NLRA and  
those who are defined as non-represented/non-management. In the 2004  
negotiations, the Union is not seeking to change the historic balance. How-  
ever, as technology changes the nature of the network and its services there  
may need to be an adjustment in some of the historical exclusions or the  
administration of the card check process. We need to address this issue and  
related definitional issues from a forward-looking perspective in the  
President’s Council. The Company and the Union will appoint individuals  
to evaluate jobs in DataComm and report, jointly or separately, to the  
President’s Council their findings and recommendations as to the proper job  
classifications in DataComm as management or non-management for  
purposes of application of the card check agreement. The President’s Coun-  
cil will consist of the regional presidents, the data services president, and  
a senior representative of human resources on behalf of the Company. The  
Union representatives will consist of the District Vice Presidents and a  
representative of the CWA National office.  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS SBC OPERATIONS, INC.  
### OF AMERICA  
| Js at :  
BY AM wc F AM nent BY “Daan  
[  
260  
hi  
   
Attachment 7  
SBC Communications Inc. Entities in CWA District 1  
Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation  
The Southern New England Telephone Company  
SNET Diversified Group, Inc.  
The Woodbury Telephone Company  
SNET America, Inc.  
SBC Communications Inc. Entities in CWA District 4  
Ameritech Corporation  
Illinois Bell Telephone Company  
Indiana Bell Telephone Company, Inc. (“Ameritech Indiana’)  
The Ohio Bell Telephone Company (“Ameritech Ohio”)  
Wisconsin Bell, Inc. (“Ameritech Wisconsin’’)  
Michigan Bell Telephone Company (“Ameritech Michigan”)  
Ameritech Advanced Data Services of Indiana, Inc.  
Ameritech Advanced Data Services of Illinois, Inc.  
Ameritech Advanced Data Services of Michigan, Inc.  
Ameritech Advanced Data Services of Ohio, Inc  
Ameritech Advanced Data Services of Wisconsin, Inc.  
Ameritech Services, Inc.  
SBC Communications Inc. Entities in CWA District 6  
Southwestern Bell Telephone, L.P.  
SBC Advanced Solutions, Inc.  
SBC DataComm, Inc.  
SBC Operations, Inc  
SBC Services, Inc.  
Advanced Solutions, Inc.  
Pacific Bell Home Entertainment  
Pacific Bell Information Services-MNG  
SBC Services, Inc.  
SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas  
SBC Telecom, Inc. — Network Operations  
SBC Telecom, Inc. 5  
SBC Communications Inc. Entities in CWA District 9 =  
Pacific Telesis Group 7  
Pacific Bell oy  
Nevada Bell a  
=  
=  
   
261  
### NOTES  
262  
2004 INDEX  
Absence  
Death  
Effecton Wage Increase.  
Jury Duty  
Leave of,  
Leave of, Union Activities ...............  
Personal Days Off  
SickneSS. 2...  
Voting... 2.2... 2. ee  
Access to Company Premises, Union............  
Americans With Disabilities Act(ADA) ...........  
Approved Union Activities on Company Premises... . .  
Arbitration  
Arbitrator’s Decision  
Arbitrator, 0000  
Arbitrator,  
Back pay, Reinstatement After Arbitration ......  
Effectof  
Expedited eee ee  
Expenses eee ee eee  
0.000. eee ee ee  
Notice to Company, Time Requirements .......  
..... 2... 0. ee eee ee ee es  
Time Limits, Computationof..............  
Assigned Employees, Force Rearrangement .......  
Assigned Employees, Surplus................  
Assigning Titles and Work.  
Assigning of Scheduled Weekend and Holiday Work . . .  
Attendance at Meetings,  
Authorized Holidays  
Authorized Representatives,  
Authorized Representatives, Problem Resolution. ... .  
Automated Upgrade & Transfer System (AUTS) .....  
Automobile, Use of Personal ................  
Average eae  
263  
Section Page  
6.05A3  
5.01B1  
6.05A1  
6.05B  
3.03A&C  
6.04  
5.01F-H  
6.05A2  
3.05  
3.09B  
3.05B  
7.12  
7.11  
7.14  
7.14  
7.11D  
£15  
7.16  
7.18  
7.10C  
7.10  
7.17  
2.05B3a  
2.06B7  
4.02  
A4.02J  
3.05D  
6.03A  
3.02A  
3.02A  
79  
59  
78  
79  
36  
77  
61  
79  
42  
47  
42  
92  
92  
91  
93  
93  
92  
   
Bad Weather  
Benefit Eligibility  
Benefit Plan  
ChangesinPlan  
Grievance andArbitration ...............  
Bulletin Boards  
Authorization 000004  
Posted Materials — Limitations. ............  
Specifications... 2... ee ee  
Termination of Privilege ................  
Call-Outs  
Immediate Services (Non-Scheduled Workday) . . .  
Less than 3 Hours Before Shift ............  
More than 3 Hours Before Shift............  
Standby ee ee  
Career Development Programs..............-.  
Carfare  
Change of Assignment and Wage Administration .....  
Change of Shift Requests  
Change of Work Location Requests ............  
Christmas & New Year’s Eve Special Payments. .... .  
Communication and Problem Solving............  
Commutable Temporary Work Location ..........  
Company Premises, Access by Union ...........  
Company’s Grievance Decision to  
Union Time Requirements. ................  
Condition of Employment, Dues Requirement.......  
Consolidation Headquarters.  
Contract, eee  
Contract Employees, Replacementof ...........  
Death inthe  
264  
Section Page  
5.011  
4.03E  
5.07A  
5.07B  
2.04E1  
2.04E2  
6.03C  
7.03  
5.05C2  
3.05  
7.07  
3.08A-C  
2.09B  
1.05  
2.06C  
6.05A3  
61  
56  
72  
Le  
43  
43  
43  
44  
66  
121  
66  
121  
65  
66  
70  
3  
69  
194  
9  
10  
75  
83  
69  
42  
89  
45  
2/7  
{  
20  
79  
Differentials  
Operator  
Pacific Bell Home Entertainment ...........  
Relief -—Management..................  
Shift... ee ee  
Disability and Wage Changes................  
Discrimination. .. 2... 0. ee  
Discussing Problem Resolution with Employees  
After Referred to  
Dismissals  
Back Pay —Reinstatement...............  
Employee Rights — Investigation ...........  
Grievance Procedure................-.  
  
Distribution of ExtraTime ..................  
Dues, Union  
Arranging Payroll Deduction. .............  
Canceling Payroll Deduction. .............  
Changes InAmount...................  
Company Responsibility ................  
Condition of Employment................  
Employee Career Development  
Employee Discipline, Union  
Employee Presentation, Problem Resolution .......  
Employment Security  
Excused Absences for Union Activities. ..........  
Expedited Arbitration.  
Expense Treatment  
Allowance in Lieu of PerDiem.............  
Automobile, Use of Personal..............  
Commutable Temporary Work Location. .......  
Lodging, Company Provided..............  
Lodging, Employee Provided .............  
265  
Section Page  
A3.05  
9.03  
C3.01A2  
3.09  
7.05F  
7.14  
7.19A  
7.05  
7.19B  
A1.05E  
3.08A  
3.08A, E, F  
3.08C  
3.08A&H  
3.07A  
2.02  
7.02A  
7.09  
2.01  
3.03A&B  
7.15  
5.05A2&3  
5.0504  
5.05C2  
5.05A1  
5.05A2  
122  
193  
137  
62  
62  
145  
47  
88  
93  
96  
84  
96  
111  
117  
129  
136  
45  
45  
46  
45  
44  
3  
83  
89  
3  
36  
93  
67  
69  
69  
67  
67  
   
Section Page  
5.05B 69  
Moving Expense 2.08 26  
Non-Commutable Temporary Work Location. ... . 5.05A1 67  
0. eee ee 5.05A 67  
Relocation... ee 2.08 26  
Transportation... 5.05C 69  
Union Reimbursement for Attending Joint Meetings. . 3.02D-F 34  
Weekend and Holiday Travel ............. 5.05A4 68  
Expiration Date, Contract .................. 10.01 103  
Extra Time Distribution. ................... A1.05E 111  
A2.03G 117  
Ce A4.03B 129  
B2.05B 136  
Fatigue ee eee 5.04H 66  
000. eee eee eee 3.10 48  
Final Department 7.07 89  
Flexible Starting 5.01D 60  
Force Balancing 00002 ee eee 2.05 10  
Force 2.06 14  
Force Rearrangements 2.05B 12  
Forty-Nine Hour 5.04L 67  
Grandfathered, PartTime .................. 4.03A1 52  
Grievance 7.05 84  
Discussions with Employee .............. 7.05F 88  
Employee Presentation ................ 7.09 89  
Final Company Position ................ 7.07 89  
Information, Sharing 7.06 88  
Time Limits, Computationof.............. 7.17 94  
Time Limits, Presentation of.............. 7.04 84  
Unresolved Union Presented Grievances. ...... 7.08 89  
Headquarters and Specified Limits ............. A1.04 109  
A2.02K 116  
A2.04 117  
A4.04 130  
Section Page  
Headquarters, Defined, Force Allocation. ......... 2.09 27  
B2.08 137  
Health. 9.01 101  
Holidays  
Assignment of Work 6.03D 76  
Christmas and New Year’s Eve Special Payments . . 6.03C 75  
During Scheduled Vacation Week. .......... 6.03B 75  
Fallingon 6.03A eo  
List of Eight Observed ................. 6.03A 15  
Pay Treatment  
Not Paid for, Exceptions ............. 6.03E28&4 76  
Not Worked 5005 6.03E 76  
Worked... .. eee ee 6.03F 77  
Home Garaging. ee eee eee B2.09 137  
Hourly Pay Treatment  
Hours of Work... . 2... A1.02 106  
A2.02 113  
A3.02 119  
A4.02 127  
B2.04 134  
Immediate Family, Definition. ................ 6.05A3 79  
Immediate Services eee nee 5.04G-J 65  
A3.03B&C 121  
Increases and C1.01-05 139  
Information Sharing 7.06 88  
Job Evaluation .... 0... 00 2 eee ee ee 4.01 49  
Advanced Notification to Union ............ 4.01A&B 49  
Change Due to New Technology or Functionalization 4.01B 49  
Negotiation Rights ................... 4.01D 50  
Neutral Third 4.01F&G = 50  
Wage Administration for Job Reclassification. ... . 4.01B2 50  
Job Evaluation Transition Pay Plan (JETPP)..... 4.01B2 50  
Join AUTS Review 2.04D 8  
Jury 2.2... 2 ee 6.04D 78  
6.05A1 78  
   
Section Page  
Laws, FederalorState.................040. 3.10 48  
Layoffs  
2 ee ee 8.01C 97  
B2.01D 134  
Allowance — Repayment After Rehire......... 8.01D 98  
Part-Time 8.01C1 98  
8.01F 98  
Treatment for Recalled Employees  
Subsequently Laid Off. ............... 8.01E 98  
Union Notification. 8.01A 97  
B2.01A 133  
Vacation Payment 8.01C2 98  
Leave of Absence  
Personal... 2... ee 6.05B 79  
Union Activities a  
Liaison Committees, Force Movement........... 2.06B2 15  
Limits on Employees Paid Attending Meetings. ...... 3.02B4 34  
Lodging, Temporary Non-Commutable Work Location  
Company 5.05A1 67  
Employee 5.05A2&3 67  
Last Workday Payment 5.01J 62  
Management Returns 00005 2.06F 21  
Meal 000 eee ee ee es 5.05B 69  
Meal Periods eee ee ee es A1.02H&l 107  
ee A2.02H&J 115  
A4.02G&H 128  
Ce B2.04| 135  
Meal Periods, Overtime 5.04N 67  
Mediation 00000 pee eee eee 7.18 94  
Meetings Between Union and  
Management Representatives .............. 3.02 33  
Authorized Representatives ........... 3.02A 33  
Expense 3.02D-F 34  
Pay 3.02B 33  
Returning To Work—End of Meeting ......... 3.02C 34  
Mileage Allowance 2000: 5.05C4c 70  
Minimum Payments, Immediate Services ......... 5.04J&K 66  
268  
Section Page  
Mini-Transfers. . 2.04E 9  
National Agreement..................... 235  
New Job Titles and Classifications  
Advanced Notification to Union ............ 4.01A&B 3 49  
Change Due to New Technology or Functionalization 4.01B 49  
Negotiation Rights ................... 4.01D 50  
Neutral Third 4.01F&G = 50  
New Years’ and Christmas Special Payments ....... 6.03C 75  
Non-Commutable Assignment, Defined........... 2.08E 27  
Non-Commutable Temporary Work Location........ 5.05A 67  
Non-Discrimination. ... 2 ee ee 3.09 47  
Occasional 4.03D 56  
Occasional ee eee 5.05B 69  
Occupational Job Evaluation (QJE)............. 4.01 49  
Occupational Safety and 9.01 101  
Overtime Definition. 5.04B 64  
Overtime and Premium Pay  
eee 5.04G-J 65  
A3.03B 121  
A3.03C  
B2.05D  
Distribution of Opportunity. .............. A1.05E  
A2.03G  
A4.03B  
B2.05B  
Forty-Eight Hours’ Notice. ............... A1.03D  
A2.03E  
A4.03C  
Forty-nine Hour 5.04L  
Holidays — Pay Treatment ............... 6.03E&F  
Meal Periods 5.04N  
onitt hange ens wa ew ee ee ww A1.05D  
A2.03F  
A4.02B4  
Standby 5.06  
269  
   
Section Page  
Sunday ee eee 5.04F  
A3.03A  
Time Paid For But Not Worked ............ 5.04E  
A3.03A1  
Part-time, Term, Temporary and Occasional Employees. . 4.03  
Part-time Employees (Until January 1, 1993)  
Holiday eee 6.03E1b  
Vacation Pay 6.02D&E  
Part-time Employees: As of January 1, 1993  
BenefitS .. 2... ee 4.03A2e&3  
4.03A1  
AllOther Employees .................. 4.03A28&3  
Holiday eee 6.03E1c  
6.02F  
Paychecks, Distribution ................... 5.01K  
Pay for Holidays Not Worked ................ 6.03E  
Pay for Holidays Worked. 6.03F  
Pay for Vacation Time 6.02B-E  
Pay Treatment for Union 3.02B  
Payroll Deduction, 3.08  
C2  
Pension Table Revision C6  
Per Diem 5.05A  
Personal Days Off  
eee 6.04A  
Employee Works, 6.04C  
Relief (Shift 6.04D  
ee eee 6.06A-E  
Two (2) Hour Increments. 6.04B  
While at Non-Commutable Temporary Work Location 6.06L  
Photocopies, Charge 7.06C  
Placement Areas, 2.06B6e  
Plan for Employees’ Pension, Disability and Death Benefits 5.07  
Premium Payments, Definition ............... 5.04C  
Priority Placement Consideration for Surplus Employees. . 2.06B6  
Problem Resolution, Presentation Steps  
Discipline Other Than Dismissals ........... 7.05A  
«22: scant ee we ee RE mw ww 7.05A  
2/70  
65  
120  
65  
120  
a2  
76  
74  
04  
52  
53  
76  
15  
62  
76  
77  
74  
33  
45  
141  
192  
67  
77  
78  
78  
79  
78  
81  
Other  
Rearrangement Areas, Defined. ..............  
Reassignment Pay Protection Plan(RPPP)........  
  
Recalled  
Reclassify Existing  
0. eee ee ee ees  
Reinstatement of Employee on Return from Absence. . .  
Relief  
Relocation Expense 5008  
Eligibility... . 2... 0.0... ee ee ee ee  
Relocation of Existing  
Replacement of Contract Employees............  
Rescheduling Personal Days Off ..............  
Responsible Union-Company Relationship. ........  
Retreats, Regular  
Retreats, Wage Administration ...............  
Returning To Work After Meetings. .............  
Review Committee, JointAUTS...............  
Rules Overtime  
Q-Hour. .  
8-Hour (Also See 40-Hour  
40-Hour (Also See 8-Hour  
40-Hour, Calculation ..................  
271  
Section Page  
7.05B  
2.06B6f  
2.06B8  
8.01F  
8.01D  
4.01B  
1.01  
3.03D  
5.02  
A3.05B-E  
2.08  
2.08A1  
2.05A  
2.06C  
6.06E  
3.01  
2.04C  
C8.06  
3.02C  
2.04D  
5.041-K  
A2.03A&B  
5.04K  
5.04D  
5.04E  
85  
17  
19  
98  
98  
49  
{  
41  
62  
124  
26  
26  
11  
20  
80  
33  
8  
199  
34  
8  
66  
116  
121  
121  
136  
66  
110  
116  
66  
110  
116  
65  
65  
65  
   
000 eee ee ee ee  
49-Hour .... 2... 2. ee  
Posting Schedules  
Sickness/Benefit Absence ...............  
Safety... 2.2...  
Scheduling, 15-Month Calendar...............  
Scheduling Planned Time  
Selection, Sequence for Vacancies.............  
Seniority  
Assignment of  
Separation 0000  
Sharing  
Shift Changes,  
Differentials... . 2... ee  
Temporary 00 eae  
Vacation and PDO Relief................  
Shift of Tour  
Defined net ene et we we  
Section Page  
A1.03D = 109  
A2.03E 117  
A4.03C 129  
5.04L 67  
A1.03B 108  
A2.02A2&3 114  
A4.02B 127  
B2.04C 134  
5.01F 61  
9.01 101  
6.06D 80  
6.06 79  
2.04B 7  
A1.06D 112  
A2.05A 118  
A3.04B 122  
A4.05C = 130  
B2.06B 137  
A1.06A 111  
A2.05 118  
A3.04A 122  
A4.05A 130  
B2.06A 136  
2.07 22  
7.06 88  
5.03A1c 63  
A1.05D 110  
A2.02A1 114  
A4.02B4 127  
6.04D 78  
A1.02A-E 106  
A2.02A-F 113  
A3.02A 119  
A4.02A-F 127  
B2.04A-G 134  
Section Page  
62  
122  
137  
193  
Differentials 5.03  
A3.05  
ee B2.07  
ee C7  
Short Term Incentive Plan — STIP  
(See Team Performance Award—TPA) ......... C5  
Sickness Absence Payments 5.01F-H  
Sleep Day... ee ee es 5.01J  
Solicitation of Members on Company Premises..... . 3.05C  
Specified A1.02F  
A1.04B  
A2.02K  
Standby Pay  
Defined ... 2... 0... ee 5.06A  
ee B2.05C  
Assignment/Employee Requirements. ........ 5.06B  
B2.05C  
5.06C  
ee B2.05C  
StateLaws eee ee eee 3.10  
Steward List... ee eee eee 3.02A  
Sundays, Premium Payment ...............-. 5.04F  
Surplus, Identification and Resolution............ 2.06B-E  
Surplus, Steps to Reduce 2.06A  
Surplus, Work Group, Defined................ 2.06Bla  
Team Performance Award (TPA) (formerly STIP) ..... C5  
Computations... 0... ee ee ee C5.02  
Description eee C5.01  
Temporary 4.03C  
Reclassification to Term Employees. ......... 4.03C4  
Temporary Work Locations. 5.05A  
00002 eee 4.03B  
Time-In-Title. 2. 2 ee C2  
Time Limits, Problem Resolution  
Arbitration. . 2... ee 7.10D  
7.18J  
Extensions, Computationof.............. 7.17  
273  
   
Section Page  
Final Department 7.07  
Grievance Presentation, Initial ............ 7.04A&B  
Grievance 7.05C-E  
Mediation 000052 7.18B  
Time Off for Union 3.03  
TitleS. 2... ee C2  
Titles and Applications A1.01  
Ce A2.01  
A3.01  
ee A4.01  
B1  
Tour Differentials (Operator C7  
Training/Retraining Working 2.03  
Transfer, Automated System. 2.04  
Activity 2.04A3  
Intra-VP Entity 2.04B4  
Listing of Job Openings ................ 2.04A4  
Prerequisites 2.04A6  
Selection eee eee 2.04B  
Time-In-Title. . C2  
Transportation. .. ee ee 5.05C  
Travel Expense  
Home Board and Lodging Allowance ......... 5.05A2  
Mileage Allowance 5.05C4c  
Occasional 5.05B  
Per Diem Allowance 5.05A  
Transportation... 5.05C  
Weekend and Holiday Travel ............. 5.05A4  
Travel Time, for Meetings with 3.02B2  
Triennial Collective Bargaining Meetings. ......... 3.04  
Union Activities on Company Premises. .......... 3.05  
Union-Company 3.02  
Union-Company Relationship................ 3.01  
Union Dues  
Arranging Payroll Deduction. ............. 3.08A  
Canceling Payroll 3.08A, E, F  
3.08C  
274  
89  
84  
86  
94  
36  
141  
105  
113  
118  
126  
133  
193  
  
141  
69  
67  
70  
69  
67  
69  
68  
34  
41  
42  
33  
45  
45  
46  
Section Page  
Company Responsibility ................ 3.08A&H  
Conditions of Employment............... 3.07A-C  
Union Material, Distributionof................ 3.06B  
Union Notification, Changing Working Conditions... . . 7.03A  
Union Presentation, Employees Problems......... 7.04  
Union Representation, Employee 7.02A  
Union Representatives, Number Paid ........... 7.05A-B  
Union Security, Dues Requirement............. 3.07A-C  
Unresolved Union Presented Grievances ......... 7.08  
Upgrades (also see Transfers) ............... 2.04  
Vacation. . 6.02  
After Returning from Accident and Disability Absences 6.06M  
After Returning from Leaves of Absence ....... 6.02G  
6.06N  
Carry Over... ee 6.06K  
Day-At-A-Time 6.061  
Day ReliefS 000.4 6.04D  
Differentials... .. 2... eee ee es 5.03  
Eligibility After Leave of Absence ........... 6.06N  
Eligibility, Full and Part-Time Employees....... 6.02  
Holiday During 6.03B  
Part-Time 6.02D&E  
Pay, Determination of Status. ............. 6.02B  
Pay, Full Time 6.02C  
Pay, Part Time 6.02D&E  
Pay Treatment, 6.04D  
000202 6.02H  
Pay in Lieu, Leave of Absence............. 6.06N  
Pay in Lieu, Leaving 6.060  
Relief Assignments. 6.06C  
Scheduling ee eee 6.06A&C  
Week, Defined ..................00.4 6.06H&dJ  
While at Non-Commutable Temporary Work Location 6.06L  
Work Restrictions... 0050 6.06H  
Voluntary Surplus Reduction Option (VSRO)........ 2.07K  
Voting Absence. 2.00. eee ee es 6.05A2  
275  
45  
44  
43  
83  
84  
83  
85  
44  
89  
5  
73  
81  
19  
82  
81  
81  
78  
62  
82  
73  
19  
74  
74  
74  
74  
78  
19  
82  
82  
80  
79  
81  
81  
81  
25  
79  
   
Section Page  
Wage Administration C8 194  
Wage Areas  
Zonee..... 2. C4.01 183  
ZoneF..... 2. C4.02 183  
ZoneG. . 2. C4.03 184  
Nevada eee ee ee C4.04 186  
Wage Credit... 2... ee 5.01E 61  
Wage Credit, Absence Exceeds 30 Days.......... 5.01C 60  
Wage Increases... .. 1... ee ee 5.01B 59  
Wage Increases and Payments............... C1 139  
Wage Schedules eee ee ee es C2 141  
C3 145  
Wage Schedules and Payments .............. 5.01 59  
Weather, Bad 5.011 61  
Weekend Travel Expense 5.05A4 68  
Work Schedules  
Posting ee ee ee A1.03B 108  
A2.02A28&3 114  
A4.02B 127  
B2.04C 134  
Work Week  
Defined eee eee ee A1.02J 108  
A2.02| 115  
A3.02B 119  
128  
B2.04H 135  
Working Conditions Changes, Union Notification ..... 7.03A 83  
Working On A Scheduled Personal Day Off ........ 6.04C 78  
2/6