Cornell University  
ILR School  
   
BLS Contract Collection — Metadata Header  
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School,  
Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.  
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization  
process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and  
corrections may apply to this document.  
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see  
http://digitalcommons. ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/  
Or contact us:  
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853  
607-254-5370 _ ilrref@cornell.edu  
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -  
http://digitalcommons. ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/2/)  
Title: ABC, Inc. and National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians  
(NABET), Broadcasting and Cable Television Workers Sector of the Communications  
Workers of America, Communications Workers of America (CWA), AFL-CIO-CLC (2003)  
K#: 5779  
Employer Name: ABC, Inc.  
Location: National  
Union: National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians (NABET),  
Broadcasting and Cable Television Workers Sector of the Communications Workers of  
America, Communications Workers of America (CWA), AFL-CIO-CLC  
Local:  
SIC: 4833 NAICS: 515120  
Sector: P Number of Workers: 1800  
Effective Date: 09/27/03 Expiration Date: 03/31/07  
Number of Pages: 374 Other Years Available: Y  
   
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the  
Catherwood website - http://www..ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/  
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www. ilr.cornell.edu/  
   
### MASTER  
### AGREEMENT:  
  
mee 6 aes  
   
   
   
Article  
il  
### HI  
### IV  
### VI  
Vil  
Vil  
### IX  
### XI]  
Xi]  
All  
### XiV  
### XV  
### XV)  
### XVII  
### XVIII  
### XIX  
### XX  
### XXI  
### XXII  
### XAIII  
### AXIY  
### XXV  
### XXVI  
### AXVII  
### AVIII  
### AXIX  
### XXX  
### MASTER AGREEMENT  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
General Articles  
Recognition and Warranty sec sce recess en 2  
No  
3  
95 Gand dtm tx oll el hh x bn BA  
NG OF i 505 vers sean eps pou seme 9  
aa CE ic ais va eas 2 ix ven sce is eee esa ms eee eae neem 10  
Program cm wn scores nd Bl elo 10  
Work Schedule, Overtime and 17  
Meal Periods. ee 24  
Night Shifi  
Seniority, Layoffs and Rehires.......  
Transfers, Training and Temporary 34  
Leave of Absence.... Sides  
de  
PAV: ve dod 4:86 bn dd UO ink td bs EER 42  
TRL, TAN ss aay pre oe wr go wow eee ps ote serves vn ae 43  
Lie os es ss aes sce sea ea  
PU UNG sce te eer oer ves are emis ot powered ax owe Bios Uo Hm fa aed we wd os Bk Hd 49  
### VACATIONS: 5:5  
and Arbitration. cece reece sien DO  
Safety ee na 65  
### IMSUTATICE. anil  
Retirement eee as 69  
On-Camera Appearances........--.... Hiram Hee nen eee dl  
Local Quarterly ss Fe  
TE Lis vn rine wh ere rinse eb bmn no Hid eS 8 a 8 08 OT cee es ae i  
Tuition Contribution, ot AD  
Savings and Investment ds ed O  
Dental Expense Insurance de mh 76  
Fe ots BE ae te  
Te Pee tt 4 2  
be  
### REPT SSH He EEE HH HEE  
hee hata aawaee  
eee ee per  
Individual Articles  
PT ser agence eer ar ono pee 78  
- Scope of Unit...  
- Technical Equipment and Jurisdiction...  
A-JI] - Classifications and Wage Scales 103  
A-IV - Technical Director and Technical Lighting........,..... verre LOG  
A-¥ - Issuance of Work Assignments ... = OP  
A-VI - Sound Effects - Chicago and Los Angeles... ... 108  
- Manning of Transmitters 110  
- Meal Periods...  
A-IX - Rest Periods .. ee wee  
A-X - Equipment In Weight..  
A-XI - Use of Employee's 117  
A-XII - Air Credits ... vee ELK  
A-XIIL - Company-Wide Employmen 18  
A-XIV - Daily Employment... wil  
Traffic and Communications Agreement  
B-I - Scope of Unit.. LZ?  
B-Hi - Duties... . mala?  
B-III - Classifies ication nand Wage Scales 130  
B-1V - Transportation for Female AD  
B-V - Seniority ... ae 3D  
B-V1 - Company-Wide Employment Opportunities... h34  
Desk Assistants Agreement - New York vee lS  
D-1 - Scope of Unit...  
D-!! - Duties... . veel 3S  
D-tif - Classification asd wane Scales. 136  
D-IV - Revisions... oe  
D-¥ - Part-Time Employees... hOB  
D-V1 - Working Conditions .. ll OO  
D-VII - Transportation for Employees... 139  
D-VIH - Provisions Of Section OD  
Individual Articles  
### F  
Newswriters-Producers Agreement - San  
- Scope of eee IAD  
= Duties. cee as 141  
~ Classification and Wage 143  
el = Air ne bee mes vans ol OU  
F-V - Scripts and Program Ideas................. 14 ind OD  
F-V1] - Provisions of Section ol  
Newswrilers Agreement — 152  
Beall = Scene: ot nin tisk st os ns ns a EES 152  
Kell ~ cece ee reer cence OD  
K-I]I - Classification and Wage seen oe LSS  
K-IV - Credits............... E40 RAGA FER PEELE yd  
K-V - Use of Materials. eee 164  
K-VI - Meal Penods......... wo aed ears Wale 164  
Newswriters Avreement - Los IOS  
eG MUI arse oe era ee pos es eee re sn  
O-li - Duties. cece iad vee 166  
O-I11 - Classification and Wage es 168  
O-1V - Air FO  
O-V ~ Use of seh PP  
ent Maintenance Agreement - Los es 178  
- Scope of ee ree 178  
> a DOG ep os an cen esses eo  
- Classification and Wage He LOU  
~ Lead 134  
P-¥V = corer 134  
P-VI1 - cece 184  
Publicists Agreement - New York LBD  
Rel = Scope Of UMit LO  
R-II - Classification and Wage 185  
R-II - Work Schedule, Overtime and Penmallics ......... LBS  
R-[V - Holidays. ae 189  
R-¥V - Provisions of Master Agreement Totally [napplicable.......... ...189  
R-V1 + LBD  
- Vacation Relief Employees | IQ  
Fes = TW osc cas ns 0 recep egg sas esi ore gap were .. L9Q  
R-|X - Transportation for Female Employees LOI  
R-X - cece eee 191  
R-XI ~ Formal LOS  
arr  
Radio Program Coordinators Agreement — Los Angeles 194  
Tal © See OF OM  
T-Il - Duties.. = ce IDA  
- Classification and Wage ‘Seales. gy  
T-IV - Work Schedule, Qvertime and Penalties  
T-V - Meal Periods... ses swith UO  
T-VI - Work Schedule for Daily | OG  
WABC-AM Talent/Telephone/Coordinator Agreement - New York ..,., 198  
Kel= Scone: OF LS  
X-I = General | 9B  
- Duties .. AO  
X-IV - Eneilovment... —  
X-V - Work Schedule, and Penalties  
- Part-Time Employees 203  
X-VIIE - Meal Period .. lO  
X-+1X - Performance of Technical Duties ey 205  
X-XI = Wage DOS  
### Signature Page RA ee A ee ETE ETE TE TT TERT PPR PEE POT PEER PET OPTS TES PTE RTE RTE HA a pore 2 DG  
Statement of Interpretation  
Stipulation of Agrecmetil FER EEE EERE RE Heth pang eta hse 209  
Sideletters.  
AA -  
AB -  
AB-1-  
AC -  
AD -  
AE -  
AF -  
AG -  
AH -  
Al-  
Exception to Section Sse ru Fn is 5 a lee  
Video Tape tas senses 10005 aes sane one 222  
Video Tape ace 2 ma sma vee ema HANGS BA WO el ead Pam ures 223  
[Deleted].......... ems 224  
tee vs anor a sa awe 224  
UAB ais vs cscs cc eve renee ne yee ebeaeeen ane 225  
ois nda cas 26s v0 on wes 225  
en an rer nie in 68 0 9 a CH Sa sso a 225  
FDeleted). cca cee eee ote 226  
Written ses 226  
   
es “eee AC  
   
Sidcleticrs  
### AJ-  
AK -  
### AL-  
### AM-  
AN -  
AQ -  
AP -  
AQ -  
### AR-  
AS -  
AT -  
AU -  
AV -  
AW -  
AX -  
AY -  
AZ -  
BA -  
BB -  
BC -  
BD -  
BE -  
BF -  
BG -  
BH -  
BI -  
BI -  
BK -  
BL -  
BM -  
BN -  
BO -  
BP -  
BQ -  
BR -  
BS -  
BT -  
BU -  
BV -  
BW -  
BX -  
Special Severance on 226  
LEE) ees 8 18 6 19 099 8 Gp ees on mes a RN eB ny ow 227  
Washington, D.C, Engineering scenes 227  
[Deleted] rene ree be eee 231  
FDA DIT) scene vas cnet on ue ret rece 2A deol  
cece cece eee ee ene 232  
(Deleted aes 232  
ieee nee new ribs bacon ore Fd Eaten won ond bed wns 232  
aes 232  
Traffic Vacation, Sen Bch VAM von IS 080 No Hd 232  
ees 233  
PURI op aes at ead» Wee wes ewes ems es ee Baie eve 233  
ae crac aren ea a nin schon uk we soo eed he a 233  
| 233  
Accidental Death and cee 233  
BOWES, «ores ee hts no Pepe = 558g x a wee ng oo we ene  
eee ey 234  
as ere ee pen en ea pene ena ae ge or ee oe oe 234  
Stipulations (17} and (18) and Section A2.2(€) ddd  
Vides Tape: Editing Equi ie as vsce ane oe vn in noon s a einen 234  
Pear Pe nes Uh i HORE Nek One ne EROS  
Interpretation of “in the ficld” in Section 6.  
Pe nw een ce cree nein nee coe ie be en ee ee Been en ee On ee ee 237  
een eae 237  
PO eR rs gee te sg oe eae gy ree ws te seca ee ee 237  
TV Control Engineer os 238  
Chicago Agreements No Longer In cee oes 238  
cone nce ne nnn soe 08 Omen eb oid BAN alt lb ee Oe a 238  
Los Angeles Radio Program 238  
Pt oa carved 888 ee Rewer GREE wi Soe eed WOE BSR  
ee any 239  
a a a cs casa van cee os meme TAN an nag pan sere one 239  
News  
Ya aa sone vn wren mnie BEN SN coon ne SE EP ee 08 REN EY KO CN 239  
Extended Leave of Absence 239  
[Deleted] pa can ses nen aan onsen spa ssn sas GIS a 244  
esis ccs wx sie nace 145: eee 0 HH He se I 244  
SU gs ego ee cr ang ww eu ere rat we ee ow ao Se 245  
TENG ie wasn rn wn 8098 BE en on OSE EA rn SE 245  
[No Provision] eee eee ee 245  
cx vs wesw vs can can preg eee 244  
BY -  
BZ -  
CA -  
CA-i-  
CA-2-  
CA-3-  
CA-4-  
CA-5-  
CA-6-  
CA-7-  
CB -  
CC -  
CD -  
CD-1-  
CD-2-  
CD-3-  
CD-4-  
CE -  
CF -  
CG -  
CH -  
Cl -  
CJ -  
CK -  
CL -  
CM -  
  
CM-2-  
CN -  
### COQ -  
CP -  
CQ -  
CR -  
CS -  
CT -  
CU -  
CV -  
CW -  
CX -  
CY -  
CZ -  
Quarterly Grievance 245  
[No Provision] 246  
Radio Combo, ret eens nee nee ety 246  
Radio  
Radio cee 247  
Radio Terminations, 249  
Last Hour Lunch - LAD  
Board ons 250  
Sideletter CA-2 Statement of ee 250  
WABC-AM/WPLJ Operational ..253  
(No Provision] 256  
Temporary Maintenance 6  
[Deleted] «2.2.0... se a4 256  
acca cs ea ven man on on ee ne re nee on work eal AR 257  
[Deleted]  
([Debeted] eee tay 257  
[Deleted] see tan 257  
San Francisco News eae 257  
Stipulation (19) -  
[Deleted] ...... vate mee an ren are, GSR EO PR RAL Dow none Wh AS 262  
[No Provision] 262  
Traffic Coordinator 6A - Supervisory ees 262  
Traffic Coordinator Remote nee canes 263  
men ne x con wel TOES UNL 0 263  
(No ec EEE 263  
New York Graphic enn 263  
OT aes 26 nae acs wow es ven rman tee min en 4 85 264  
renee tes 265  
[No Provision]. een 265  
(No Provision], eed see OO  
[No ih DAE NG HER dus ee 265  
[No 265  
(No Provision], eee ees eens Ree 265  
Short-term Union Leave of Absence, one 265  
ener ne sas 266  
[Deleted] cee neers ats 266  
New York Desk ee seer 266  
Editorial 267  
Electronic tes 268  
eee cena ee aps 270  
270  
vi  
ee ee ee  
DA -  
DB -  
DC -  
DD -  
DE -  
DF -  
DG -  
DH -  
DI -  
DJ -  
DK -  
DL -  
DM -  
DN -  
DO -  
DP -  
DQ -  
DR -  
DS -  
DT -  
DL -  
DV -  
DW -  
DX -  
DY -  
DZ -  
DZ-|-  
DZ-2-  
EA -  
EB -  
EC -  
ED -  
EE -  
EF -  
EG -  
EH -  
EI -  
E) -  
EK -  
EL -  
PROSE ia ssc ei oss ea ne pa x ee 271  
Program 4 Ben Sas 271  
Berd = Armia) Meet rie as co an moe nem a 272  
andl cen ur 604805 bank Oc eves 272  
“ee ODI og es es Sc 5 ec 5 009 eee ees gsr eens re x 274  
PACT) a nh ch Sew a be dad se PE RSE EN BO 276  
New York Talent Coordinators Part GO  
New York Talent Coordinators - FO  
Sports 276  
News Producer ans 277  
Computer Systems. reer ees ebb ee tad 278  
errr re ares 280  
New York “Library” renee een ees 2806  
Digital Cameras and Related 28  
Outside Crews and Facilities ees 283  
“Retrofit” and “Modular 283  
Effects of Arbitration Award or Grievance or Arbitration  
Settlement Sew te HAGE EE TE Cm eae 2  
PAIR co ts ste crs pe wre crs egg cere cree oe es em we ee 284  
Four - Day cn 284  
PUT Weer eT a ois bw apa ccc gg se se ry cence sees oe et 285  
Stewards/Officers -WABC/TY tus 286  
Implementation of Sideletter os 286  
VAN, x e585 nn en RAK TEN AS ne 289  
on ne wa uc espe es oes 2 es ore es earns oe aes em se ax oo De 289  
Painters/Gardeners - Los 289  
Unsuitability - New York ee 29)  
| secon ase wee as wn eR ore men SO Ro a 291  
Layoffs - New York eel  
«en 08055 pew mee ER EN NSA Ke I 292  
Satellire or Microwave 292  
ge tC ace gree cease a ne ox ono Pw ARNO 292  
Pre-Audition cea e bee ead tas 292  
Aerial or Fixed Remote os 293  
Company Benefits Plans and eee 293  
Microphones And Other Audio 296  
Emre iis 0 ya 002s we ares ox meres ees ee ee nee 296  
Management Engineering eee 297  
Subcontracted ce ene 298  
cece pee 298  
Tatent eae 298  
Vii  
   
EM -  
EN -  
EN-1-  
EO -  
### EP.  
### EQ-  
ER -  
ES -  
ET -  
EU -  
### EV-  
EW -  
EX -  
EY -  
EZ -  
FA -  
FB -  
FC -  
### FD-  
ED-1-  
FE -  
FF -  
FG -  
FH -  
### FI-  
FJ -  
FK -  
FL -  
FM -  
FN -  
### FO-  
FP -  
FQ -  
FR -  
FS -  
FT -  
### FU-  
### FV.  
FW -  
FX -  
FY -  
Change of 298  
KGO-TY and KGO-Radia Conditions. eee ees 299  
San Francisco reece aay 304  
Outside Post Production - Los se IOS  
Non-Covered BUuSiNe@SS@S., red QS  
Promo REVIEW. reer nest ee ranean epee rene tenes 305  
Brittain/Hering OO  
KABC-TY - New Facility... con 306  
306  
Non-Represented AVID ts 308  
ee res 309  
New York Technical Director ened OD  
Retiree Medical Benefits. aes 309  
  
Voluntary Separation dL  
Interpretation of Section DIZ  
Daily Hire Defined Contribution od LZ  
News Assignment 313  
Flex: Phar 401 (0S es pie oe ss vir sia ven en ce enn ne na een ene es 313  
Flex (k) Plan...... ee ere secre seen ens 313  
Interpretation of Sideletters CX, DK, eed 4  
Personal Services 314  
News Producers - San one 345  
aes 316  
Desk Assistants Duties - Los eed 1G  
[Deleted] ss: gate ra us on en me ed bd PEE SEE EEK RE OO lb  
gem 1 seco re messed esi Besos es ila WE 316  
[No Se orf urea 316  
Local On-Camera Appearance 1G  
4 SPU ROE ae We ee ees 317  
Legal Effects..... ood]?  
SNG Assignment - Scheduling Meals...  
Regis Promo 318  
Microwave Receive Site Maintenance........ reece d LB  
Sale, Merger or 318  
Work Week 318  
DK or CX nen 319  
Sick and Disability Leave... coed UP  
one 320  
Production Control Automation. fl  
Wash Up seeded  
viii  
idel  
FZ -  
GA -  
GB -  
GC -  
GD -  
GE -  
GF -  
GH -  
GI -  
GJ -  
### GK-  
GL -  
GM -  
GN -  
GO -  
GP -  
GQ -  
GR -  
GS -  
### GT-  
GU -  
SPP oe cee cee nee eee 323  
segment and Specialty News Producers - San Francisco..............  
Segment and Specialty News Producers - Chicago and Los Angeles...324  
Repair and/or Calibration of Equipment. es 325  
New Technology and Consolidation. ser 325  
RGD TE ac is yas ua gan neg sa td aie be 328  
Direct Deposit. 328  
Section A2.2(¢)9 Network and Local Station Newsgathering............329  
Los Angeles and San Francisco os 329  
Radio Network or Syndicated Programs KABC-AM, KLOS-FM,  
### WABC-AM.. OU  
Effect of “A” Unit Rate Compression eee eee een ave 330  
Grievance ats 332  
Transmitter Engineer ees 332  
WABC-TV Two Person ENG Crew eae anne 333  
Unit Daily + 34  
GD i is sos erp sos eae van os 0 oe 334  
ABC-NABET Retirement ee eee od  
Committee on 8.6(c) and re renee S78 ee 35]  
Section 529 College Savings eae 35)  
1997-2003 Master Agreement Terms..  
Statement of Interpretation Article XII Uporadiag. ioe  
### NABET-CWA-ABC MASTER AGREEMENT  
2003-2007  
Master Agreement executed September, 26, 2003 but effective September 27,  
2003, except as otherwise herein provided, between ABC, Inc., a wholly owned  
subsidiary of Disney Enterprises, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Walt Disney  
Company, Inc. (only as the owner of those television and radio stations, television and  
radio network facilities, and other entities and operations, which were covered by the  
1981-1985 NABET-ABC Master Agreement and which formerly were included within  
the “American Broadcasting Company, a division of American Broadcasting Companies,  
Inc.”, which stations, facilities, entities, and operations continue to be owned, directly or  
indirectly, by ABC, Inc. or by a subsidiary or division thereof, and which stattons,  
facilities, entities, and operations shall hereinafter be called the “Company”), and the  
Nationa! Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians, the Broadcasting and  
Cable Television Workers Sector of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO,  
CLC (hereinafter called the “Union’’).  
it is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto to set forth herein the basic  
collective bargaining agreements between the parties in two (2) parts: (I) GENERAL  
ARTICLES covering those subjects which are uniformly applicable to substantially all of  
the basic relationships, hours of work and general conditions of employment, including a  
procedure for prompt, equitable adjustment of grievances to the end that there shall be  
no work stoppages or other interferences with operations dunng the life of these  
Agreements; and (1) (INDIVIDUAL ARTICLES which will contain the description of  
each Bargaining Unit, which shal) not be affected hereby, the rates of pay and any  
unusual working conditions which have no general application. In the event of any  
conflict between the General and Individual Articles, the Individual Articles will prevail.  
Wherever in the wording of this Agreement the masculine gender is used, it shall be  
understood to include the feminine gender, or vice versa.  
### GENERAL ARTICLES  
### ARTICLE |  
### RECOGNITION AND WARRANTY  
Section 1.1  
The Union represents and warrants, and it is of the essence hereof, that it  
represents for collective bargaining purposes all of the employees of the Company as  
defined in the applicable SCOPE OF UNIT clause, and the Company recognizes the  
Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all such employees of the Company.  
### ARTICLE II  
### NO DISCRIMINATION  
Section 2.)  
The Company will not discriminate against any employee for anything said,  
written or dane in furtherance of the policies and aims of the Union, Neither the Union  
nor the Company will discriminate against any employee because of race, creed, sex,  
age, color, national origin or sexual orientation.  
Section 2.2  
{a) The Company will not transfer or reassign any Shop Steward or any Officer of  
the Union without prior discussion with the Union and without a bona fide  
reason,  
{b) = The Union agrees to furnish a list of all the respective Local Stewards and  
Officers to each office of the Company, and to notify the office promptly in  
writing of any change in the list, 1n addition, the Union will furnish each office  
of the Company with'a special “Steward/Officer List” for that office, which list  
will not contain more than one (1) employee for each fifty (50} employees, or  
fraction thereof, of the employces in that office but in no event less than the  
number of employees specified below:  
New York - 12  
Washington - 2  
Chicago - 3  
Los Angeles - 7  
San Francisco - 3  
(c)  
   
Section.2.2(b) Cont'd  
The Union will notify the appropriate office of the Company promptly in  
writing of any changes in the special “Steward/Officer List.”  
With respect to the Shop Stewards or Union Officers whose names appear on the  
spectal “Steward/Officer List” described in Subparagraph (b} above, the  
Company will not transfer or reassign an employee whose name appears on such  
List without the consent of the Local Union involved, unless there ts no longer a  
need for the employee in his or her current assignment or the employee is unable  
to fulfill the requirements of his or her current assignment, If the Company  
proposes to transfer or reassign an employee on the “Steward/Officer List” for  
the above-enumerated reasons withaut the Union’s consent thereto, the matter  
may be referred by cither the Company or the Union to expedited arbitration  
under the provisions of Section 20.10.  
[See Sideletter DU.]  
Section 2.3  
(a}  
(b)  
The Company shall, when requested by a Local Union, schedule the Local  
President, the Local Vice-President or the Chairman of the Grievance Committee  
to tours which will facilitate discussion of labor matters with the Company. If  
any such person is on leave of absence or is not employed by the Company, a  
designee who is employed by the Company may be appointed by the Union in his  
or her place, [t is agreed that no more than two (2) such officers or designees  
shall be so scheduled at any office of the Company.  
The Company will endeavor to arrange the work schedule of Executive Board  
members and Shop Stewards so that they may attend regularly scheduled  
mectings of the Local Executive Board or Local Shop Stewards as the case  
may be.  
### ARTICLE Ili  
### EMPLOYMENT  
Section 3,1  
(a)  
As a condition of employment al) employees referred to in Section 1.1 shall,  
thirty (30) days after the date of execution of this Agreement, or in the case of  
new employees, thirty (30) days after the date of hiring, become members of the  
Union and remain members in good standing in the Union during the term of  
each Agreement.  
Section 5 1{b)  
(b) —_ In licu of the provisions of (a) above, employees hired on a daily basis shall, after  
twenty (20) days of employment within a calendar year or thirty (30) days in two  
(2} consecutive calendar years, become members of the Union and remain  
members in good standing in the Union during the term of each Agreement.  
Section 3.2  
The Company will, within three (3) working days after receipt of notice from the  
Union, discharge any employee who is not in good standing in the Union by virtue of  
having failed to tender the uniform membership dues or initiation fees, as required by  
the preceding Paragraph.  
Section 3.3  
(a)  
(b)  
The Company shall give notice in writing to the President of the Local Union and  
the Sector President of the Union of opportunities for employment, except daily  
employment, in the classifications covered by cach Agreement, and the maximum  
rate intended to be paid. Such written notice shall be of as long duration as  
practicable, and of at least fourteen (14} days’ duration, except that in emergency  
situations, oral notice prior to employment, followed by written confirmation,  
shall suffice. The information contained in such notices shall also be posted on  
the Company bulletin boards in the home office in which the employment  
opportunities exist within said fourteen (14) day period. in filling vacancies in  
any classification covered by this Agreement, the Company will give  
consideration to NABET-CWA-represented employees of the Company in other  
units who apply to fill such vacancies in the home office in which they are then  
employed. Employees in the same Unit shall be given the opportunity to apply to  
filt such vacancies in their home office and each application received shall be  
considered by the Company, provided, however, that the decision of the Company  
with respect to each such application shall not be subject to arbitration.  
If a regular employee in one Unit is transferred by the Company to another Unit  
in the same office of the Company, the following will apply:  
  
(i) If the position to which the employee is transferred is a vacation relief  
position, and the employee is not retained as a regular employee at the  
conclusion of the vacation relief employment, or if at such time the  
employee notifies the Company that he or she does not wish to  
become a regular employee in the new Unit, the employee shall have  
the right at such time to return to the Unit from which he or she was  
ee  
le  
{ii)  
  
(iv)  
Section Cont  
transferred, with the time spent in the new Unit being added to the  
employee's Unit Senionty in his or her original Unit; and if the  
vacation rehef employment was in the engineering departments in New  
York or Los Angeles or in the engineering department of another office  
of the Company to which Stipulation (19) has become applicable, the  
emptoyee will be entitled to the same benefits thereunder as other  
vacation relief employees, except for Paragraphs 2, 3, 6(a) and 6(b)(vi)  
of such Stipulation (19).  
If the position to which the employee has transferred is contemplated to  
be a regular position and if, prior to the employee's completion of the  
four (4) month period specified in Section 3.5 for attaining regular  
Status in the new position, the employee etther is scheduled for layoff  
from such position or the employee wishes to return to the Unit from  
which he or she was transferred, in either such case the employee shall  
have the right to return to the Unit from which he or she was  
transferred, with the time spent in the new Unit being added to the  
employce’s Unit Seniority in his or her origina) Unit.  
During the pertod that a regular is filling a vacation relief  
position tn another Unit under Subparagraph {i} above or during the  
probationary four (4) months that a regular employee is filling a regular  
position in another Unit under Subparagraph (ii) above, such employee  
will be entitled to the same benefits under Articles XXII, XXIII and  
XXVI of the Agreement as the employee was entitled to as a regular  
employee in the Unit from which he or she was transferred. The  
employee's vacation pay in the year during which such transfer has  
occurred will be based on the employee's wage rate in the position from  
which he or she was transferred unless he or she attains regular status  
in the new Unit before taking vacation in which event the wage rate  
wil! be based on that of the employee’s new position. The  
compensation for any holiday payback days to which the employee is  
entitled under Article XVIII will be based on the wage rate he or she  
was being paid on the day the holiday was worked unless the employee  
attains regular status in the new Unit before taking the payback day off  
in which event the wage rate will be based on that of the employee’s  
new position,  
During the period that a regular employee is filling a vacation relief  
position in another Unit under Subparagraph (i) above, or during the  
probationary four (4) months that a regular employee is filling a  
tegular position in another Unit under Subparagraph (11) above, the  
Company may elect to transfer the employce back to the Unit from  
which he or she was transferred, with the time spent in the new Unit  
being added to the empioyee’s Unit Seniority in the original Unit, and  
such transfer may be made im the sole discretion of the Company. If,  
however, the Company moves to discharge the employee from the  
Company, such discharge will be subject 10 Article XIV of the  
### Agreement.  
{v) In any case where an employee has transferred from one Unit to  
another, and another employee is engaged to fill the position of the  
transferee, such employee will be informed of the circumstances that  
created the vacancy and of the possibility that the transferee may be  
returned to his or her original position, under the various circumstances  
in (1), (11) and (iv) above, and it is understood that if the  
transferee returns to his or her original Unit, the Company may elect to  
lay off the employee who had been engaged to fill the vacancy created  
by the transfer and, notwithstanding any provision in the Master  
Agreement, the latd-off employee will not be entitled to any recall  
rights to which he or she would otherwise be entitled as a result of such  
period of employment.  
(See Stipulation (19).)  
Section 3.4  
{a)  
{b)  
The Company ayrees to refer all applicants upon hiring and in any event within  
seven (7) days after the commencement of work, to the Local offices of the  
Union for information and advice as to the Union Shop requirements of each  
Agreement and to notify the Local Union of such hiring within the seven (7) day  
period. The notice to the Local Union shall be in writing, and shall include the  
new employee's name, address, telephone number, starting wages and the  
employee's scheduling office. The Company will give each employec, when  
hired, a copy of Article ill, Article 1V and Article XI of this Agreement and the  
wage scales of the applicable Unit.  
The Company, upon request of the Loca] Union, will supply such Local Union  
status sheets showing local wage changes (other than daily and weekly  
upgradings and general wage adjustments), leaves of absence of longer than one  
(1) week and terminations which have taken place in the active employment  
roster during the preceding month.  
   
Section 3.5  
(a) Alt employees shall be temporary employees for a period of four (4) months from  
the date of their employment with the Company and shall thereafter be regular  
employees.  
{b) In lieu of the foregoing, in the event that the Company elects to offer a daily hire  
employee a position as a regular employee, such daily hire employee once  
engaged as a temporary employee shall remain a temporary employee for a  
period of one (1) month and shal] thereafter become a regular employee. The  
foregoing shall apply only if such employee has worked as a daily hire for no less  
than one-hundred (100) days over the two (2) year period immediately preceding  
hire as a temporary employee into the same operating area (e.g., ABC News New  
York-based daily hire cameraman hired as ABC News New York-based temporary  
cameraman, or a daily hire Los Angeles-based soap camera operator hired as a  
temporary Los Angeles-based soap camera operator). Travel-only days are  
excluded in the above one-hundred (100) day calculation.  
(c) | Temporary employees may be discharged or laid off in the sole discretion of the  
Company.  
Section 3.6  
Notwithstanding the provisions of 3.5 above, a vacation relief employee hired  
between March {st and October Ist of any year shall be considered a temporary  
employee even though his or her period of employment extends beyond four (4) months,  
provided, however, that the employee shal! become a regular employee if retained afler  
October of the year in question, or upon obtaining four (4) months’ continuous  
service, whichever is the later.  
Section 3.7  
Upon completion of separate periods of service totaling one (1) year, but in the  
case of vacation relief service totaling more than fourteen (14) months, which although  
not continuous are separated by intervals of jess than one (1) year, an employee shali  
become a regular employee and shall receive seniority credit for such service for all  
purposes, This shail only apply to any period of service which shall have been  
terminated for reasons of layoff, completion of vacation relief or an illness leave of  
absence,  
### ARTICLE IV  
### CHECK-OFF  
Section 4.1  
Upon receipt of a signed authorization of the employee involved, m the form set  
forth in Section 4.4, the Company shall deduct from the employce’s paycheck the Union  
Initiation Fee and the dues payable by the employee to the Union and, at the option of a  
Local Union, the dues payable by him or her to the Local Union, during the period  
provided for in said authorization. The amount of the Union Initiation Fee will not be  
unreasanable.  
Section 4.2  
Deductions shall be made on account of initiation fees from the first (151)  
paycheck of the employee after receipt of the authorization. Deductions shall be made  
on account of Union dues and Local Union dues from the first (1st) paycheck of the  
employee afier receipt of the authorization and biweekly thereafter. Deductions of Union  
dues and Local Union dues shal] not be made from severance pay.  
Section 4.3  
Deductions for Initiation Fee and for Local Union ducs shall be remitted to the  
Local Unian involved and deductions for Union dues shall be remitted to the  
International Office of ihe Union no later than the tenth (10th) day of the month  
following the deductions and shall include all deductions made in the previous month,  
The Company shall furnish the Sector and the Loca! Union, at least monthly, with an  
alphabetica! record of those for whom deductions have been made and the total amount  
of each deduction.  
Section 4.4  
The parties agree that the check-off authorizations shall be in the following form:  
NA MB ners PAR  
{Please Print}  
### SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER...  
Section 4.4 Cont  
I hereby authorize the Company to deduct biweekly from my wages a sum  
equal to___ {dof my total earnings for the previous biweekly period  
including ali overtime and penalty payments on account of membership dues in  
NABET-CWA. 1 further authorize the Company when notified in writing to do  
so by the Local Union in the area involved to deduct from my wages on account  
of Union Initiation Fee the sum of ..... Dollars which shall be paid (provide for  
period and number of payments). | further authorize the Company when notified  
to do so by the Local Union in the area involved to deduct from my wages on  
account of dues payable to that Local Union (provide for amount or percentage to  
be deducted). The sus thus to be deducted are hereby assigned by me to  
NABET-CWA and are to be remitted by the Company to the Union and the  
Local Union.  
! submit this authorization and assignment with the understanding that it will be  
effective and irrevocable for a period of one (1) year fram this date, or up to the  
termination date of the current collective bargaining agreement between the  
Company and NABET-CWA, whichever occurs sooner.  
This authorization and assignment shalt continue in full force and effect for  
yearly periods beyond the irrevocable period set forth above and each subsequent  
yearly period shal! be similarly irrevocable unless revoked by me within ten (10)  
days prior to the expiration of any irrevocable period hereof, Such revocation  
shall be effected by written notice by registered mail to the Company and the  
Union within such ten (10) day penod.  
  
### ARTICLE V  
### NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS  
Section 5.1  
It is agreed that there will be no stoppage of work, lockout or other interference  
with Company operations and that the employees hereunder will perform their regular  
and customary duties for the Company until one of the parties has faited to comply  
promptly with any final decision of the Umpire or an arbitrator pursuant to  
Article XX,  
Section 5,2  
Section 5,2  
The Company will not assign, transfer or require employees to go to any radio or  
television station, transmitter, studio or property to perform the duties of employees who  
are on strike or to originate a program or programs especially for such station. In  
addition the Company shall not take any disciplinary action against an employee for his  
or her refusal to cross a picket line which has been established as the result af any  
authorized stnke by members of the other than a picket line of any sort  
established against the Company by NABET-CWA during the term of this Agreement  
(except as permitted in Section 5.1 above).  
### ARTICLE VI  
### TRANSFER OF WORK  
Section 6,1  
The Company agrees that it will not transfer or subcontract any work or  
functions covered by this Agreement and presently being performed by employces in the  
Bargaining Unit, or to which employces are entitled under the terms of this Agreement,  
to persons outside the Bargaining Unit provided that with respect to work or functions  
which in the past have been performed for the Company both by persons within and  
without the Unit the Company may continue tu have such work perfornied outside the  
Bargaining Unit to a degree no greater than heretofore; and provided further that in the  
event that any “live” program is converted to optica! film, nothing in this Section shall  
be construed as in any way restricting the assignment of any work or functions connected  
with the production and processing of such optical film to persons outside the  
Bargaining Unit.  
### ARTICLE Vil  
### PROGRAM ORIGINATION  
Section 7.1  
Except as hereinafter provided in Subsections (d), {e}, (). (i), @), (kK), (2) and (m)  
below, an Engineering employee or Engineering employees, as required, shalt be present  
at the origin of Company television programs originating within the Continental United  
States Alaska).  
lion 7.1 C  
As used in this Section 7.1, “Company television program(s)” (hereinafter  
“program” or “programs”) shall include only program material or portions of programs  
(i.¢., inserts or segments of any length) or entire programs, which in any case are  
broadcast by the Company and are produced by the Company, or produced by  
others for the Company when the Company owns the basic property rights in  
such program material, or portions of programs, or entire programs and subcontracts the  
production of the program to others.  
(See A2.2(e}(9) and Sidetetters BP, DB and GH .)  
(a) [Deleted.]  
(b)  [Deteted.)  
(ct) [Deleted.]  
{d) Commercial and sustaining programs originated in the studios of affiliated  
stations.  
{e} Programs originated within a three hundred fifty (350) mile radius of an Owned  
Station covered by this Agreement (such radius being hereinafter called the  
“radius”) may be made by any single station within the radius, provided, however,  
that such station can supply the necessary Engineering personnel from its staff on  
regular payroll, and provided further that the pickup is not nearer to the Owned  
Station. Should either of the foregoing conditions not be met, any Owned Station  
covered by this Agreement shall make the pickup,  
(f) Programs originated outside the radius may be made by any single station within  
two hundred (200) miles of the pickup. If the assigned station is within the  
radius it must be able to supply the necessary Engineering personnel from its  
staff on regular payroll. Ifthe station is outside the radius it must be able to  
supply twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of Engineering personnel  
necessary to do the event {measured by the total number of Engineers required on  
the day-of-air or taping, or final day-of-air or taping in the case of a multiple-day  
event); if it cannot, any Owned Station covered by this Agreement shal] make the  
pickup. If such station is able to supply twenty-five percent (25%) of the  
necessary number of Engineers, but less than one hundred percent (100%), the  
necessary additional Engineers will be persons covered by the provisians of the  
Master Agreement and/or up to the allowable maximum number of vendors  
pursuant to Sideletter EH.  
   
Section 7 ligh  
{g)  
(h)  
(i)  
(i)  
(k)  
[Deleted.]  
[Deleted]  
News events when time does not permit the assignment of Engineenng personnel  
to the point of pickup or when owned or leased equipment or telephone line  
facilities are not available to make the pickup  
(See Sideletter AN.)  
News and news special event programs onginated on a pool basis by or together  
with any news and other information gathering company(ies) or organization(s)  
and/or any station(s). Nothing herein shalt limit the right of the Company to  
utilize the facilities of the pool arrangement for its own origination when others  
involved in the pool are not broadcasting, provided that such facilities are utilized  
for such pool broadcast by other participants in the pool.  
The Company agrees to review promptly with the Union any claim that the  
Engineering employees of the Company are not handling a reasonable proportion  
of the pool programs which it broadcasts. Where Company crews are needed for  
White House pool assignments in Washington, D.C., the Company will endeavor  
to give preference to the use of weekly staff employees for such assignments.  
The operation, by Company personnel who are employed for the purpose of  
reporting news, of the following:  
(i) an audio tape or wire recorder which its battery- and/or spring-operated,  
weighs less than thirty (30) pounds as a unit, has only one (1)  
microphone input and a microphone cord not longer than twelve (12)  
feet, and no editing attachment; and  
{ii) portable gudio transmitting and receiving equipment of the “walkie  
talkie” type, when either is used in connection with on-the-spot news  
material or interviews to be included in news programs.  
Audio tape or wire recorders of the type described m (i) above will be maintained  
by Engineers covered by this Agreement, but this will not preclude the Company  
personnel who operate such recorders from changing the batteries of the  
equipment which they operate pursuant to this Section.  
   
ion 7.1  
Under no circumstances will AC power connections be used for recording on  
such audio tape or wire recorders.  
(I) Sessions and Committee or Council meetings originating from the United  
Nations. This exception shall not app!y to originations or portions thereof when  
the Company uses its facilities at the United Nations; directs at the United  
Nations the program efforts; assigns Company personnel at the United Nations  
for participation in the pickup; or contributes any of the program elements at the  
United Nations; nor shall this exception apply to programs utilizing the United  
Nations for the purpose of locale or setting.  
(m) News programs originated by “beeper” or similar type phone.  
(See Sideletters AL and BP.)  
Section 7.2 - Affiliate Defined  
Affiliated radio and television stations are defined for the purpose of this Article  
as those stations under a written affiliation agreement which take ten (10) hours or more  
of Company network programs per month. The ten (10) hours are computed by adding  
the programs taken direct from the Company’s network lines to those programs which  
have been recorded by engineers covered by this Agreement. Owned stations not  
covered by this Agreement {including but not limited to the following stations which are  
owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by ABC, Inc. or by a subsidiary or division  
thereof: WLS-AM (Chicago), WPVI-TV (Philadelphia), KTRK-TV (Houston),  
WTVD-TY (Durham-Raleigh, NC}, KFSN-TV (Fresno}, WJR-AM (Detroit), WHYT-FM  
{Detroit}, WBAP-AM (Fon Worth), KSCS-FM (Fort Worth), WKHX-AM/FM (Atlanta,  
GA), WTVG-TY (Toledo), WIRT-TY (Flint) and KQRS-AM/FM (Minneapolis)) shall be  
considered affiliates for the purposes of this Article.  
Section 7.3 - Recorded Material - Origin Of  
The origin of the audio portion of Company television programs using audio  
materia! especially recorded for broadcasting shall be that point at which the  
recording is converted by reproducing equipment for broadcasting, provided the  
recording has been properly checked, edited or rerecorded by Engineering employees  
under this Agreement. The Company agrees that it will provide copies of the  
NABET-CWA Seal and that such Seal may be affixed to such recordings denoting  
that this provision has been complied with.  
Section 7.4  
Section 7.4 - No Access  
Where the Company cannot obtain access to the point of pickup for any reason or  
where the facilities at the point of pickup or transmission facilities between such point  
and the Company's terminal facilities are not available, the Company may broadcast any  
program originated in cooperation with any company or organization without assigning  
an employee to the pickup. When time permits, the Company will notify the Union of  
its intended utilization of this Section prior to the broadcast.  
Section 7.5  
The Company agrees that 1 will not assign a non-NABET-C WA-represented  
Company employee to record a television program especially for the Company subject to  
the provisions of this Article.  
Section 7.6 - Ciaims By Other Unions  
In no event shall the Company refuse to assign an employee in any case where  
the Company would ordinarily assign an employee because of any claim made by any  
other union to the operation of all technical equipment in any particular area.  
Section 7.7 - Meal Expense Allowance  
(a} An employee assigned to a scheduled field pickup or other authorized  
Company business that requires and/or work away from the home  
office overnipht shall receive a per diem allowance of Fifty-Two Dollars  
($52.00) (increased to Fifty-Three Dollars ($53.00) effective September 27,  
2003; and increased to Fifty-Four Dollars ($54.00) effective September 27,  
2006) per day for meals and incidental expenses for each calendar day that  
the employee is away from the home office. (On assignments outside ihe  
Continental United States, the per diem allowance shaJJ be the same as that  
provided to unrepresented staff employees of the Company on the same  
assignment.) The term “incidental expenses” as used in this Subsection  
(a) refers to expenses incurred for items such as laundry and tips. Employees  
will not be reimbursed for telephone calls and transportation (other than  
transportation and telephone calls authorized by the Company for business  
purposes). In the unusual case in which an employee incurs reasonable and  
necessary expenses in excess of the per diem allowance, the employee shall  
submit a statement of such expenses to the management representative for  
(b)  
{¢)  
approval. In the case of a remote in which meals are not readily available, the  
Company may cater meals in a restaurant, hotel dining room or equivalent  
accommodation, in which event, the per diem allowance shall be reduced by  
Three Dollars ($3.00) for each meal other than breakfast so catered and One  
Dollar, Fifty Cents ($1.50) for each breakfast so catered. For the purpase of  
applying the per diem allowance, an assignment in which the employee travels by  
air shal] be deemed (o start at his or her plane’s scheduled departure time and end  
at the actual arrival time at the gate of the ptane which the employee takes to  
return to his or her home office, provided that, if the actual arrival time of the  
plane at the gate is before 2:00 A.M., the assignment shall be deemed to have  
ended on the previous day. On all assignments covered hereunder lasting five (5)  
or more consecutive days, an employee shalt receive, in addition to the per diem  
allowance provided above, a special laundry allowance of Three Dollars ($3.00)  
(increased to Four Dollars ($4.00) effective September 27, 2003) per day,  
retroactive to the first day of such assignment.  
Employees assigned to field pickups not covered by the foregoing (including  
employees assigned to the studio and subsequently assigned to a field pickup for  
the remainder of their tour) shall be allowed a single payment of Twelve Dollars  
($12.00) (increased to Thirteen Dollars ($13.00) effective September 27, 2003)  
for meals after eleven (11) elapsed hours, or Eighteen Dotlars ($18.00) (increased  
to Nineteen Dollars ($19.00) effective September 27, 2003) after fifteen (15)  
elapsed hours, if the employee is on assignment in the field, at the end of such  
eleventh (11th) or fifteenth (15th) elapsed hour respectively. In lieu of the  
foregoing. when sleeping accommodations are not furnished but the assignment  
requires the employce to travel fifty (50) miles or more (one way) from the main  
office of the employee’s Company office and requires absence from the  
employee's home office for at least fourteen (14} hours, a per diem will be paid  
in the amount Twenty-seven Dollars ($27.00) (increased to Twenty-eight Dollars  
($28.00) effective September 27, 2003 in lieu of meals. Necessary incidental  
expenses such as taxi fares and tips shall be reimbursable on assignments covered  
by this Subparagraph (b).  
In the event that less than eight (8) hours exists between the end of an cmployee’s  
tour and the start of his or her next tour, the Company shall, at the request of the  
employee, provide hotel accommodattons with single occupancy. Such  
accommodations shall be located within ten ([0) miles of either the employees  
location at the end of the employce’s tour, or the location of the start of  
employee's next tour. The Company shall also, at the request of such employee,  
provide taxi or equivalent to and from such accommodation at no  
cost to the employee.  
Section 7, 7(¢} Contd  
Because this Section 7.7 (c} is motivated by safety considerations, the parties  
agree that a regular or daily hire employee may not be entitled to such hotel  
accommodations or transportation, depending upon how far in distance an  
employee resides from the location at the end of an cmployee’s tour. The parties  
agree to act reasonably in the application of this provision recognizing hote] or  
transportation accommodations are not automatic for a regular or local daily hire  
employee, even if there are fewer than eight (8) hours from the end of such  
tour until the commencement of said employee's next tour.  
(dq) Inthe event the Company provides a hotel room or equivalent accommodation  
for a local remote within an office of the Company which would not normally  
require an overnight stay, or for other contingencies, (¢.g., weather, special  
reports), affected employees shall receive one Section 7.7(a) per diem payment  
for each night the employee is assigned to remain overnight in such  
accommodations,  
The grievance in New York relating to the strike ix withdrawn and  
shat! not he refiled.  
Section 7.8 - Milcage  
For the purpose of this Article, mileage shall be determined by AT&T and  
associated companics.  
Section 7.9 - Strip Shows  
The Company agrees 10 discuss in advance with the Union, programs onginating  
from affiliates on a strip basis, when such a strip show is expected to be so originated for  
more than two (2} canseculive weeks.  
Section 7,10  
Nothing in this Article shall alter in any way the Union's exclusive jurisdiction  
over video tape as set forth in Article A-II.  
Section 7.11  
When technical equipment at the point of origination does not require the  
presence of an cmployce covered by the Engineering Agreement im order to originate 2  
progcam from such point, nothing in this Article shall require the presence of such an  
employee.  
Section 7.11 Cont'd  
This Section shall not be construed to infringe on NABET-CWA jurisdiction  
where work covered by the Agreement is required to be performed at remote locations,  
nor shall it preclude NABET-CWA from grieving as to whether work covered by the  
Agreement is or is not required in any specific remote pickup.  
### ARTICLE VIli  
### WORK SCHEDULE, OVERTIME AND PENALTIES  
Section 8.1 - Regular Work Day  
A regular work day is defined as consisting of not less than eight (8) hours  
in any work day, which shall be computed by totaling the number of hours between the  
time an employee reports for work and the time of completion of the employee’s duties  
for such work day, including meal periods where applicable. A tour of duty startmg any  
day and continuing into the following day shall be considered as one (1} tour of duty and  
attributed to the first (Ist) day.  
Section 8.2 - Regular Work Week  
A work week is defined as consisting of any five (5) regular work days,  
as defined above, for a total of forty (40) hours, and as beginning at 12:0] A.M.  
Saturday and continuing until 12:00 Midnight the following Friday. Each employee shal!  
have two (2) consecutive days off in each week. For this purpose, Friday and Saturday, if  
consecutive, shall be consecutive days off. No Jater than 7:00 P.M. of the preceding  
Tuesday (Wednesday in the event any of the following holidays should be celebrated on  
Monday: New Year's Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor  
Day, Christmas Day and two (2} “floating” holidays designated by the Company under  
its policy applicable to unrepresented personne!), the Company shall post at the home  
office the work schedule of employees for the nine (9) day penad beginning at 12:01  
A.M, Saturday. If the schedule is not posted in accordance with the foregoing, it will  
automatically be the same as the last one posted.  
Schedules posted by the Company will not show an employce as working a ninth  
(9th) or tenth (10th) consecutive day, against the employce’s wishes unless the  
employee’s schedule shows a specific assignment for cither the ninth (9th) or tenth () 0th)  
day of work or, if no specific assignment is shown, there is a genuine expectancy of a  
specific assignment occurring on cither such day on the basis of programming  
information or operational requirements known at the time the schedule is posted, and  
upon inquiry the employee will be entitled to an explanation of the basis for such  
ti ont’  
expectancy. The possibility that a news or sports event may continue beyond its  
expected termination will be considered as a “genuine expectancy” for this purpose.  
(See Sideletter FT.)  
Section 8.3 - Turnaround  
There shall be a minimum of twelve (12) hours between the end of an employee's  
original schedule or any extension thereof on any regular work day and the start of the  
next. A day off shall consist of thirty-six (36) hours off consecutively and two (2} days  
off, sixty (60} hours. Assignments during any of the above turnaround periods shail be  
compensated for, in addition to the regular rate, at Five Dollars ($5.00) {increased to  
Seven Dollars and Fifty Cents ($7.50) effective September 27, 2003) per hour for the  
portion of such assignment which encroaches on such turnaround period, except that the  
compensation shall be Fen Dollars ($10.00) (increased to Fifteen Dollars ($15.00)  
effective September 27, 2003) per hour, in addition to the regular rate, for the portion of  
such assignment which encroaches on the four (4) hour period immediately following the  
end of the employee's original schedule or any extension thereof, [n the event that two  
(2) hours or less clapse between the end of any tour or extension thereof and the  
beginning of the next, the above provisions shall not apply and the tour shall  
be considcred as one {1) continuous tour. None of the above turnaround provisions sha!]  
apply to regularly established watch changes where the parties have agreed upon a  
rotating watch system, or to tours separated by vacation or by leave of absence in excess  
of two (2) days.  
Section 8.4 - Long Tours  
(a) if an employee works more than eight (8} hours in any single tour, he or she shall  
be paid for all the hours in excess of eight (8) at time and one-half (t-1/2) times  
the regular rate of pay. Compensation for this excess time shall be in addition to  
any base pay to which such employee may be entitled regardless of the length of  
ihe tour in question, For example, an employee, who in any regular work week  
works three (3) eight (8) hour tours and one twenty-four (24) hour tour will be  
compensated at the employee's base pay for such work weck plus sixteen (16)  
hours at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay.  
(b) is called back to work on a calendar day on which he or she has  
already started and completed a tour of duty, the employee shall be paid for the  
time between the end of such tour and his or her start of work on the  
   
Section 8.4(b) Cont'd  
call-back. The employee shalt receive not less than a total of cight (8) hours’ pay  
for the intervening time pius the time worked on the cail-back, provided, however,  
that for penalty purposes the call-back shall not be deemed extended beyond the  
time actually worked.  
Section 8.5 -  
{a}  
(b)  
Hours worked outside of a regular work week or a regular work day shal] be  
regarded as overtime and compensated at time and one-half (1-1/2) times the  
repular rate of pay in quarter (1/4) hour segments, except that such overtime  
hours worked on tours to which Article X is applicable shal) be additionally  
compensated for as provided therein. In no case shall overtime accrue on  
overtime. Penalties shall not be considered overtime or part of the base pay.  
Up to one (1) hour of overtime not worked, whether scheduled orally or in  
writing, may be cancelled after an employee has reported to work, if the  
Company determines in its sole discretion that such work is not needed and the  
employee is released from duty. The foregoing sentence shall not be construed to  
eliminate or shortcn overtime pay due an employee because of minimum calls on  
a sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) days or rescheduled under other provisions of the  
Master Agreement, Nor shall this provision otherwise restrict the  
ability to cancel, climinate or shorten overtime under other provisions of the  
Master Agreement.  
If, on any particular studio assignment, an shift ts extended, at, or  
within fifteen (15) minutes of, the conclusion of the shift in fifteen (15} minute  
increments more than twice, the third and any subsequent extension for that  
assignment shall be for a period of no less than thirty (30) minutes,  
Section 8.6 — Changes in Work Schedule  
(a)  
(b)  
Changes:in Emp!oyees’ Day or Days Off - The posting of the nine (9) day  
schedule referred to in Section 8.2 shall freeze the employees’ days off for the  
following nine (9) day period.  
Work on Scheduled Day Off - An employee may be required to work ona  
scheduled day off. Seventy-two (72) hours’ notice prior to 12:01 A.M. of  
the scheduled day off must be given, except if less notice is given a Twenty  
Dollar ($20.00) penalty shall be paid. Except as provided in the following  
paragraph, in the event that such notice is given within such seventy-two (72)  
Section 8.6 (6) Contd  
(c)  
hour period, at least eight (8) hours must elapse between the end of the  
previous tour and the start of a tour on any orginally scheduled day  
off. If less than eight (8) hours elapse and the employee agrees to work, then the  
elapsed time wili be paid for as time worked and aj! hours will be paid for as one  
(1) continuous tour. In the event that the Company notifies an employee to report  
for work on a scheduled day off and then cancels such tour less than seventy-two  
(72) hours but more than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled starting  
time of work on such day off, the employee shail be paid a penalty of Thirty-Six  
Dollars ($36.00); however, such employee shall be paid for such tour if (i) after  
such cancellation, he or she is again notified to report for work on such  
scheduled day off and the tour is again canceled, or (ii) the Company  
cancels such tour upon less than such twenty-four (24) hours’ notice.  
(i) Daily Schedule Changes - Notice of daily schedule changes affecting  
starting time shall be given no later than 7:00 PM of the second (2nd)  
dlay prior to the day im question, If schedule changes are desired  
therealter, such changes can only be made by adding work time to the  
previously scheduled hours al overtime rates as specified in Section  
8.5,  
(ti) In lieu of the preceding paragraph, on scheduled field pickups or  
authorized Company business requiring travel and/or work away from  
the home office overnight, notice of daily schedule changes affecting  
Starting time shall be given ten (10} hours in advance of the changed  
starting time, but not later chan 7:00 PM of the work day prior to the  
day in question, excepi that in the event an employee is notified after  
7:00 PM of a starting time schedule change or is given less than ten  
(10) hours’ advance notice a penalty of Thirteen Dollars ($13.00)  
(increased to Fourteen Dollars ($14.00) effective September 27, 2003)  
shal! be paid. Starting time referred to above means cither the original  
posted time or the new time-in, whichever is earlier.  
(iii) In lieu of the First paragraph of this Section, on: (1) news field  
assignments not covered by the second (2nd) paragraph of this Section  
using electronic cameras capable of being hand-held and associated  
equipment; and (2) news programs involving extended or special news  
coverage effective for all days of the coverage following the day the  
coverage begins (for all employees assigned, e.g., editing, studio,  
graphics, maintenance, etc.) notice of daily schedule changes affecting  
starting time shall be given ten (10) hours in advance of the changed  
20  
   
ent  
=  
aad  
Section &. iti] Cont'd  
starting time, but not later than 7:00 PM of the work day prior to the  
day in question, provided that (i) in the event an employee ts notified  
after 7:00 PM of a starting time schedule change or is given less than  
ten (10) hours’ advance notice, a penalty of Thirteen Dollars ($13.00)  
{increased to Fourteen Dollars ($14.00) effective September 27, 2003),  
shall be paid; or (ii) in the event an employee is notified after 11:00  
PM. of the work day prior to the day in question, the change in starting  
time can only be made by adding work time to the previously scheduled  
hours at overtime rates as specified in Section 8.5. The addition of  
such work time pursuant to (ii) shall be in liew of the penalty set forth  
in (i) of this subparagraph.  
In any case stated above, the assignment to which the employee is to be assigned  
shall govern.  
(See Stipulation (6) and Sideletters FA and GR.)  
Section 8.7  
Before going on vacation, an employee will be informed as to what date he or she  
will first be required to report back to work.  
Section 8.8  
The posting of the weekly schedules and any subsequent daily schedule changes  
shall fulfill the Company’s obligation of notification to the employees under this Article.  
The Company agrees to make every effort to change the posted schedules as soon as  
changes in starting time or end of tour time are known to the Company.  
Section $.9  
(a) [f the employee has completed his or her tour prior to the posting of the daily  
schedule it shall be the Company’s sale obligation to notify the of  
any change. Such notice shall be considered given as of the time it is received  
by the employee personally, or by any responsible person at the employée’s  
home. For each completed telephone call made by the Company to an  
employee’s home between Midnight and 7:00 AM, the employee shall be  
paid a penalty of Thirteen Dollars ($13.00). In lieu of the preceding sentence,  
in the case of an employee who qualifies for night shift differential  
21  
Section 8.9 (a) Cond  
(b)  
(c)  
under Section 10.1, for each completed telephone cali made by the Company to  
an employee's home within eight (8) hours after the completion of the employee’s  
prior shift, the employee shall be paid a penalty of Thirteen Dollars ($13.00).  
Notwithstanding any provision of the Master Agreement or any other agreements,  
grievance settlements, arbitration awards or practices to the contrary, if the  
Company calls an employee during the employee's off-duty hours and discusses  
Company business (other than a schedule change as referenced in paragraph (a)  
above) for more than ten (10) minutes, the employee shall receive one (1) hour’s  
pay at his or her regular rate for each such completed call, provided the need to  
make the call does not result from an error or omission on the part of the  
employee. In the event an employee receives more than three (3) such calls in  
any one (1) calendar day, the employee shall receive no less than eight (8) hours"  
pay at his or her regular rate.  
Each employee shall inform the Company of any change in his or her home  
address and provide the telephone number within seven (7) days after such  
change. Employees shall provide the Company with “unblocked” access to the  
telephone number provided to ihe Company.  
Section 8.10 Eavessive Assignments  
(a)  
(b)  
If an employee has worked in excess of ten (10) consecutive days without having  
received at least one (1) day off, for all such days worked in excess of ten (10)  
and until such time as the has received a day off, the shall  
receive additional compensation at his or her straight-time rate of pay; provided,  
however, that if the employee is otherwise receiving at least time and one-half (1-  
1/2) his or her straight-time rate of pay for any hours thereof by virtue of another  
provision of this Agreement, the employee’s additional compensation therefor  
under this Section shall be at one-half (1/2) the employee's straight-time rate of  
pay. It is not the intention of the Company to schedule an employce to work in  
excess of twelve (12) consecutive days unless such assignment is necessitated by  
unusual operating requirements.  
The Company shall refrain from assigning employees for continuous excessive  
hours of work resulting in excessive mental and physical strain. In the event the  
Company does so assign employees, i1 is agreed that the matter shall be subject  
to the grievance procedure, and the Company shall give such gnevance its  
immediate attention.  
22  
Section $.10 {c  
(c) The Company will notify the President of the Local Union in advance of the  
Operational use of new technical equipment or significant change in any  
established method of operation, provided that where the Local President is not  
an employee of the Company, a designee who is an employee may be appointed  
by the Union, and in such event, the Company will endeavor to send a copy of  
the above notice to said designee.  
Whenever possible, such notice will be given in writing at least three (3) weeks  
prior to the placing of such equipment into operation or the making of such  
change. If the Local Union claims that the Company’s action will impose or has  
imposed a significant increase in:  
(i) workload or  
(ii) physical, mental or nervous strain on the employees involved, which  
will or has resulted in an unreasonable workload or excessive physical,  
mental or nervous strain on such employees, it may invoke the  
grievance and arbitration procedures set forth in Article XX, including  
the expedited procedure. However, the expedited arbitration  
procedure can be invoked only within one (1) week following receipt of  
such notice, unless such time ts extended by mutual agreement.  
Should the arbitrator determine, under any and ail factors which the arbitrator  
deems relevant, that the new technical equipment or changed method of operation  
imposes an unreasonable workload or excessive mental, physical or nervous strain on the  
employees tnvolved, the arbitrator shall order the Company to devise an alternative  
which alleviates such condition, and the arbitrator wiil retain jurisdiction over the case  
until such time as he or she ts satisfied that the condition has been corrected. Should the  
arbitrator determine, under any and all factors which the arbitrator deems relevant, that  
the increase in workload or mental, physical or nervous strain has rendered the  
employees’ Group classification inappropnate, he or she may reclassify such employees  
within the existing Group classifications in the Agreement.  
It is specifically agreed that the notice provisions of this clause shall not be  
applicable to minor changes in operations, or to emergency situations such as  
changes necessary to meet suddenly arising operational needs, provided, however,  
that nothing herein shall preclude the Company from giving the notice provided  
above in either such case,  
23  
Section 3.11  
Section 8.11  
Notwithstanding any provisions in this Article VIII or arbitration awards to the  
contrary, no employee shall be entitted to payment for any scheduled work time for  
which he or she is not present and available to perform work assigned by the Company  
(¢.g,, when an employee is late in reporting to work or leaves work early without  
authorization to do so), unless such absence has been approved by his or her  
management supervisor.  
### ARTICLE 1X  
### MEAL PERSODS  
Section 9.1  
A meal period not to exceed ane (1) hour shall be taken as near the middle  
of the shift as possible except in case of emergency or when a skeleton force is  
operating.  
Section 9.2  
During each work day in which an employee works two (2) or more hours beyond  
his or her regular work day the Company shall pay the employee Seven Dollars and Fifty  
Cents ($7.50) (increased to Ten Dollars ($10.00) effective September 27, 2003} to  
reimburse the employee for added expenses in addition to any overtime pay earned,  
Section 9.3  
This Article IX shall not affect the employees who have  
specific provisions, nor the present practice of groups who have no scheduled meal  
periods.  
### ARTICLE X  
### NIGHT SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL  
Section  
An employee who works at any time between the hours of 12:00 Midmght and  
6:00 AM shall be paid a night shift differential of fifteen percent (15%) of his or  
24  
Section 10.1 Contd  
her straight-time rate of pay for all straight-time worked between such hours, and a  
differential of twenty-two and one-half percent (22.5%) of his or her straight-time rate of  
pay for all overtime worked between such hours.  
(See Statement of Interpretation and Sideletter GT.)  
Section 10.2  
[Deleted. ]  
Section 10.3  
An employee who has received night shift differential payments pursuant to  
Section 10.1 above for at least one hundred thirty days during the previous  
calendar year shall receive a differential of fifteen percent (15%) of his or her straight-  
time rate of pay for cach week of his or her scheduled vacation, as well as for the  
purpose of computing any severance pay to which the cmployee may become entitled  
pursuant to Section 15.1.  
### ARTICLE  
### SENIORITY, LAYOFFS AND REHIRES  
Section 11.1 - General Senionty Provisions  
(a) For all employees, all seniority dates from the first {1st} day of the month in  
question. The actua] date when the employee initially commences work,  
however, shall control when the employee is competing against another  
employee under this Agreement for any privilege affected by seniority.  
In the event that more than one (1) regular employee has the same seniority  
date, and the relative seniority of such employees has not been previously  
established, lots shall be drawn in the presence of the employees affected, a  
Local Union officcr and a Company representative not later than thirty (30)  
days after the date of this Agreement for the purpose of determining the  
relative seniority of the employees involved. In the event that more than  
one (1) employee commences working for the Company on the same day, lots  
shall be drawn in the presence of the employees affected, a Loca] Union  
officer and a Company representative not later than thirty (30) days after such  
commencement of work for the purpose of determining the relative seniority  
of the employees involved. If subsequent to the establishment of relative  
seniority as provided herein, the seniority date of an employee is changed so  
25  
Section 1) Cond  
that he or she then has the same seniority date as one or more other employee(s)  
in the same Unit or separate seniority group, such employee will draw jots in the  
presence of a Local Union officer and a Company representative not later than  
ihirty (30) days after the situation arose for the purpose of determining the  
employce’s relative seniority with respect 10 such other employee(s).  
(b) [Deleted. ]  
(c) The types of seniority are: (1) Total Company Seniority; (2) Unit Seniority; and  
(3) Pay Seniority.  
Section 11.2  
Total Company Seniority is measured by the fength of service with the Company  
and is the controlling factor with respect to severance pay and length of vacation,  
A regular employee with one (1) or more years of service who voluntarily leaves  
the Company's employ and who is reemployed within one (1) year shall, for the calendar  
year commencing after he or she has been so reemployed for at least twelve (12) months,  
and thereafter, receive credit for his or her continuous employment prior to resignation in  
determining the employee's Total Company Seniority for vacation purposes only.  
Section 11.3  
(a) The followimg shall apply at all offices of the Company except Los Angeles:  
{1) Unit Seniority is measured by length of service accumulated in all  
accupations presently covered by the Unit, or the separate seniority  
group within the Unit, in which the employee is employed and controts  
preference of vacation. It shall also contro! layoffs and rehiring as  
provided in this Article.  
{2} For Unit Seniority purposes under the Master Agreement, employees  
employed under the “A”, “D”, “F and “K” Agreements shall be  
separately grouped as follows:  
26  
(3)  
(ii)  
(iii)  
(iv)  
   
Section 1] 2Hi  
Master Television Seniority Group (consisting of ali regular  
network and local television employees with a Unit Seniority  
date of or prior to July 20, 1989);  
Network Television Seniority Group (consisting of all regular  
television employees hired after July 20, 1989 to work in  
network television);  
Local Television Seniority Group (consisting of all reguiar  
television emptoyees hired after July 20, 1989 to work tn  
local television);  
Radio Seniority Group, where applicable (consisting of all  
regular network and locat radio employees).  
When layoffs of regular television employees employed under the “A”,  
“D”, “F" and “K” Agreements are to be made in any office of the  
Company except Los Angeles, the following shall apply:  
(i)  
(il)  
If the number of employees to be laid off from either network  
television or local television is equak to or less than the  
number Of employees in the Network Television or Local  
Television Senionty Group, whichever is applicable, the  
employees in such group will be laid off in inverse order of  
seniority.  
If the number of employees to be laid off from either network  
television or local television exceeds the number of  
employees in the Network Television or Local Television  
Seniority Group, whichever is applicable, after first laying off  
all employees m the applicable group, the excess shall be laid  
off in inverse order of seniority from the employees in the  
other group. If after all employees in both the Network  
Felevision and Local Television Seniority Groups have been  
laid off, the number of employees to be jaid off still has not  
been reached, employees in the Master Television Seniority  
Group will then be laid off in inverse order of seniority.  
27  
(iti)  
(iv)  
   
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection,  
m the event there is a layoff in New York in the “A”  
Engineering Unit at cither network television or local  
television that will exceed the number of employees in either  
the Network Television or Local Television Seniority Groups,  
whichever is applicable at such time, the Master Television  
Seniority Group in New York shall thereupon cease to exist.  
In such event, those employees previously in the Master  
Television Seniority Group employed by network television  
thereupon shall be placed in the Network Television Seniority  
Group, and those employed by local television shall be placed  
in the Local Television Seniority Group, in both instances  
with their Unit Seniority from the former Master Television  
Group intact.  
Any layoff shall first proceed in inverse order from the  
applicable list and any layoffs in excess of the number of  
employees previously in the Network Television or Local  
Television Senionty Groups, whichever is applicable, shall  
next occur in inverse order of Unit Seniority from among  
those empioyees previously in the Master Television Seniority  
Group employed, by either network television or local  
television, depending upon the Group in which the layoff is  
occurring.  
The recal! rights of any employee who had been in the  
extinguished Master Seniority Group because of a Unit  
Seniority date of or prior to July 20, 1989 and has been laid  
off pursuant to subparagraph (iii) above, shall have recall  
rights only in the Network Television Operation or Local  
Television Operation, as the case may be, in which he or she  
was employed at the time of such layoff. Such rights  
nevertheless shall be determined strictly by his or her Unit  
Seniority date and without regard to the criteria set forth in  
the first paragraph of Section 1 t.?{a).  
(See also Section ] 1.6(a} and {b).}  
No employee may be compelled to accept a transfer from one separate  
seniority group to another. In the event an employee, with his or her  
consem, elects to accept a transfer, he or she shall be placed at the  
28  
(b)  
4 nt’  
bottom of his or her new separate seniority group for purposes of Unit  
Seniority, but his or her Total Company Seniority and Pay Seniority  
will remain unaffected by such transfer. However, in the event any  
regular radio engineering employee on the payroll as of July 20, 1989 is  
accepted for wansfer to either the Network Television or the Local  
Television Senionty Group, such employee shall be credited, for  
seniority purposes in the Master Television Seniority Group, with all  
the seniority which he or she accrued while he or she was employed in  
Tadio. Nothing herein shall prohibit the Company from temporarily  
assigning employees to perform work in a seniority group other than  
the one in which they accrue Unit Seniority.  
In the Los Angeles office of the Company, the following shall apply in licu of the  
foregoing Subparagraph (a): ,  
()  
(2)  
(3)  
Unit Seniority is measured by the length of service accumulated in ail  
occupations covered by the separate seniority group within the Unit, or  
in the separate seniority group within the Unit, in which the employee  
is employed and controls preference of It shall also control  
layoffs and rehiring as provided in this Article.  
For Unit Seniority purposes under the Master Agreement, employces  
employed under the “A” Agreement and “O” Agreement in the Los  
Angeles office, shall, be separately grouped as follows:  
Network Television  
Local Television  
Radio  
(See also Section 11.6(a) and (b).)  
“No employee may be campellied to accept a transfer from one separate  
seniority group to another. In the event an employee, with his or her  
consent, elects to accept a transfer, he or she shall be placed at the  
bottom of his or her new separate seniority group for purposes of Unit  
Seniority, but his or her Total Company Seniority and Pay Seniority  
will remain unaffected by such transfer. However, in the event any  
regular radio engineering employee on the payroll as of July 20, 1989 is  
accepted for transfer to either the Network Television or the Local  
Television seniority Group, such employee shall be credited, for  
seniority purposes, with ali the seniority which he or she accrued while  
he or she was employed in radio.  
29  
Section 11.3.(b) (4)  
(4) Nothing herein shall prohibit the Company from temporarily assigning  
employees to perform work in a seniority group other than the one in  
which they accrue Unit Seniority, During the period of temporary  
assignment, such employees will continue to accrue Unit seniority.  
(c) Notwithstanding anything in this subsection | 1.3 to the contrary. in the “A”  
Engineering Unit in the New York Office of the Company, if at any time, an  
employee who, with his or her consent, elects to accept a transfer from network  
television to local television, or vice versa, and accordingly from one separate  
seniority group to another, shall be credited with all Unit Seniority accrued prior  
to transfer, and his or her Company Senionty wil! remain unaffected by such  
transfer.  
Section 11.4 - Company Offices  
The offices of the Company are New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Franctsco  
and Washingtan, D.C.  
Section 11.5  
Pay Seniority determines the place on the escalator, except for “A”  
Unit (Engineering) Employees, and indicates the employee's anniversary date for pay  
purposes. in determining the Pay Seniority of a new employee, the Company wil)  
consider the non-engineering employee's previous expenence and, upon the Union's  
request, will discuss the employee's place on the escalator with the Union within  
fourteen (14) days after the Union is notified of his or her employment, Non-  
engineering employees already on the payroll may have their Pay Seniority increased by  
the Company afier the Union is notified.  
{See Sideletter GK Para. }.)  
Section 11.6 — Layoffs  
(a) When layoffs (reductions in force) of employees are to be made in any unit, the  
Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine the number of employces to be  
laid off at each office. If such layoff shal] be confined solely to temporary  
employees, the Company shall have the absolute right of selection among such  
employees. If such layoff shall both temporary and regular employces,  
the Company shall Jay off all temporary employees at such office and then lay off  
regular employees at such office in order of Unit Seniority, as defined in  
Section 11.3 of this Articte.  
30  
(b)  
{c)  
(d)  
(e)  
(f)  
(g)  
(See Section 11.3{a)€3) and (b).}  
Similarly, if a layoff shall involve only regular employees, such layoff shall  
proceed in inverse order of Unit Seniority at such office.  
(See Section 11.3(a}(3) and (b}.}  
The Company shall not be required 10 transfer employees between offices  
in the event of a layoff.  
Any regular employee who has accrued less than five (5) years of Unit Seniority  
or any vacation relief employee who is laid off shall receive two (2) weeks’  
written notice of such layoff or two (2) weeks’ pay in lteu of such notice. Any  
regular employce who has accrued five (5) or more years of Unit Seniority who  
is laid off shall receive three (3) weeks’ written notice of such layoff or three (3)  
weeks’ pay in lieu of such notice. Notice of layoff or pay in lieu of such notice  
shall be in addition to any severance, vacation or holiday pay to which an  
employee may be entitled upon such layoff pursuant to this Agreement. Such  
notice shall include the date of layoff and the number of payback days and  
vacation days, if any, due to the employec. In the event notice is given to the  
employee as provided above, a copy thereof shall be sent to the Union.  
In the event a regular employce is laid off and returns to the Unit or separate  
seniority group within the applicable period specified in Section 1.7, the  
employee’s seniority for all purposes upon returning shall be that which he or she  
had on the date of such layoff.  
In the event a temporary employee ts laid off and returns to the Unit or separate  
seniority group within six (6) months, the employce’s seniority for all  
purposes upon returning shall consist of all accumulated time worked for the  
Company in the Unit, which was separated by intervals of less than six (6)  
months.  
The Company will give to each employee who is laid off and who has rehinng  
rights, a copy of Section 11.7 of this Agreement,  
(See Stipulation (15) and Sideletter DZ-2.)  
3]  
   
Section 11.7 - Rehirmg Rights  
(a)  
(b)  
In the event the Company wishes to engage employces within any Unit at any  
office, or within any separate seniority group in any Unit enumerated in Section  
(1.3 at any office, it shall notify the Union, and the Company shall reemploy, in  
order of their Unit Senionty, any regular employees who were laid off from such  
separate seniority group in that office and who have rebiring rights at such time if  
the Company determines, in its sole judgment, that such employee(s) possesses  
the skills and abiltties necessary to perform the work involved in the position(s)  
to be filled.  
In television, hawever, all laid off employees with recall rights in the Master  
Television Seniority Group, if any, must be offered reemployment by the  
Company in either network television or local television prior to the Company  
offering reemployment to any laid off with recall in either the  
Network Television Seniority Group or the Local Television Seniority Group.  
{The foregoing paragraph is not applicable in the Los Angeles office of the  
Company and to the extent provided in Section 11.3(a)(3)@ii) and {iv).}  
An employee will be presumed to possess the requisite skills and abilities if the  
position to be filled is one which the employee was regularly performing at the  
time of his or her layoff. A regular employee shall have rchiring rights in the  
separate seniority group in the office from which he or she was laid off under this  
Article for the following penods:  
three (3) years in the case of those who as of May 12, 2003, were  
employed as regular employees in the Units covered by this Agreement,  
or on layoff status therefrom with rehiring rights, or  
(ii) two (2) years in the case of those employed after May 12, 2003.  
(1) An employee on layoff has sole responsibility to keep the Company and  
the Union notified as to his or her current address.  
(2) The Company will notify an employee on layoff and who has rehiring  
rights under Section L1.7(a) of job availability in the Unit in the office  
from which he or she was Jaid off. This will be done by Registered  
Mail (Return Receipt Requested), and the employec is required to  
respond to the Employment Oifice of the Company within one (1)  
week of receipt of notification of the intention to accept or  
decline the job,  
32  
(c)  
section | L.7 (b) (3)  
(3) Failure of the employee to respond within one (1) week after receipt of  
recall notice will nullify the employee’s recail right to the job(s)  
offered.  
(4) If the employee responds to the effect that he or she cannot accept the  
job, but wishes to consider future job offers within his or her recall  
period, the Company will notify the employee of such furure job  
openings within the Unit in the office from which the employee was  
laid off, as in (2) and (3) above.  
(5) If the employee fails to respond, the Company will not be required to  
notify the employee relative to subsequent job openings, unti] such time  
as a written response Is received from the employee.  
The provisions of this Section 11.7 shal? apply only to employment which, at  
the time of hinng, ts anticipated to be for periods in excess of four (4)  
consecutive weeks,  
Section 11.8 - Armed Forces  
{a)  
{b)  
(c)  
Any employee who shall enter or who has entered the Armed Forces of the  
United States shall, upon his or her discharge from such service, be granted such  
teemployment rights as are provided for in such statutes or Governmental  
regulations as may at that time be applicable.  
Any regular employee who is a member of the National Guard or one of the  
Armed Services Reserves, and is required to report for annual military training  
shall be granted leave when ordered to active duty for such purpose. In such  
event, the Company will pay to such employee the difference, if any, between his  
or her military pay for the periad of such training, not to exceed fifteen (15)  
working days, and the base pay the employee would have received if he or she  
had worked during such period.  
If a regular employee is recalled to active duty in the Armed Services for an  
indeterminate period, such employee shal] be compensated in accordance  
with the terms of the policy applicable to unrepresented employees of the  
Company penerally.  
33  
Section 11,9  
Section 11.9 - Revision  
The Company and the Union shall have the right by mutual agreement to alter  
and vary the provisions of this Article as weJl as those of other Articles. However, no  
alteration or variation of the provisions of this Article may be made without the written  
approval of the Local Union(s) involved.  
Section 11.10  
The Company may at any lime negotiate with the Union regarding  
retirement or separation incentives to be offered to a particular employce(s) designated  
by the Company in order to induce such employee(s) to retire or resign or, if applicable,  
to waive recall rights (including rights to be recalled for vacation relief employment  
pursuant to Stipulation (19)).  
The specific terms of any offer made by the Company to the Union may be  
conveyed to the employee by either the Company or the Union, and the Union further  
agrees not to reject on behalf of a designated employee any offer which the employee is  
willing to accept.  
### ARTICLE XU}  
### TRANSFERS, TRAINING AND TEMPORARY UPGRADING  
Section 12.1 - Transfers  
{a) Anemployee ina job classification covered by the Master Agreement who is  
transferred to another job classification covered by the Muster Agreement which  
latter classification is compensated on an escalator scale the highest rate of which  
exceeds the flat ratc or highest scale cate, as the case may be, of the job  
classification from which the employee was promoted, shall be fitted into the  
scale in the bracket equal to or next above his or her salary at the ¢ime of transfer.  
This will noi affect the employee's anniversary date, and he or she will have Pay  
Seniority according to the salary bracket in which the employee is placed.  
(b) Anemployce may not be compelled to accept a transfer from one office to  
another, An employee who, with his or her consent, is transferred from one  
office to another will retain his or her Total Company Sentority and Pay  
Seniority, and, with the consent of the Locals involved, his or her Unit Seniority.  
The Locals’ consent will not be unreasonably withheld,  
34  
(c)  
Section 12,1 (b) Contd  
Any regular engineering employee who has been laid off by the Company and  
who is rehired pursuant to Section A13.1 will be credited at the office of his or  
her rehire with the employee’s Unit Seniority accrued at the office of his or her  
layoff.  
In the case of an employee who has transferred within his or her Bargaining Unit  
from one office to another without retaining his or her Unit Seniority, if such  
transferee is scheduled for layoff during the first three (3) years of employment at  
his or her new office, the following shalt apply:  
(1) The transferee may return to the orginal office of employment if there  
is a vacancy at such office and if such transferee has more Unit  
Seniority than all employees on layoff from such office who have recall  
rights.  
(2) The transferee may return to the original office of employment,  
although there is no vacancy at such office, if he or she has more Unit  
Seniority than any one employec at such office. [n such case, an  
employee at such office will be laid off in accordance with the layoff  
provisions of the Master Agreement in order to permit such transferee’s  
return.  
(3) The transferee may not return to the original office of employment if  
there is no vacancy and no employee at such office with less Unit  
Seniority than the transferee’s own. In such case, the transferee will be  
laid off from the current office of employment, and he or she may elect  
to be placed in a layoff status from the original office of employment  
only, rather than from his or her current office of employment, in which  
case he or she will have the recall privileges specified in Section 11.7  
of the Master Agreement only in reference to vacancies at his or her  
original office of employment.  
(4} A transferee's services at the office to which he or she was transferred  
shall be included in his or her Unit Seniority at the office of  
employment to which he or she returns on active or layoff status.  
{5) Any return by an employee to his or her original office of employment  
shall be at the employee's own expense.  
35  
Section 12.2  
Section 12.2 - Training  
For the purpose of training, an employee may be assigned, for a period not to  
exceed twenty (20) days, to perform work in a more highly paid classification at the  
employee’s normal cate of pay. Ln no case shall this provision be used to avoid filling an  
existing vacancy. A vacation relief assignment shall not be given an employee in training  
without paying the employee in the more highly paid classification. An employee who is  
assigned to a job in which he or she has no recent prior experience  
will be given an adequate opportunity to adjust to his or her new duties and will receive  
individual training, if necessary.  
{See Sideletter ET.)  
Section 12.3 - Temporary Upgrading  
(a} In the event that an employee is temporarily transferred to a higher classification  
than that to which the employee is regularly assigned, he or she shall be paid at  
the normal wage scale for such higher classification during the period of such  
transfer for not less than a full tour of duty.  
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of (a} above, in the event that an employee  
temporarily relieves another employee or employees in a higher classification for  
a mea) period or mea! periods nat in excess of two (2) hours in any une (1) tour,  
the employee shall be paid at the norma) wage scale for such higher classification  
during the period of such relief only, If the relief periods exceed two (2) hours,  
the employee shall be paid at the normal wage scale for such higher classification  
for not less than the entire tour of duty. In the case of relief for personal needs or  
rest periods, the employee shal! receive his or her normal wage scale. In no  
event, however, is an employee to receive less than his or her regular wage scale  
if assigned temporanily to a lower classification than the employee's regular  
status.  
(c)  [Deieted.]  
### ARTICLE XIII  
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
Section 13.1  
In the event a regular employee takes a leave of absence because of illness and  
returns to the Unit within two (2) years, the seniority for all purposes upon  
returning shall include the period of such leave of absence.  
36  
Section 13,2  
The Company shali, upon written application from a regular employee, grant a  
special leave of absence not exceeding six (6) months, without pay, for maternity reasons  
(other than disability for which paid sick leave is provided pursuant to Article XXVI) or  
paternity reasons, with full reinstatement privileges. Such employee’s seniority for all  
purposes upon returning shall include the period of such jeave of absence.  
Section 13,3  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
The Company wiil arrange a long-term leave of absence for Union activity for  
not more than two (2) employees (not more than three (3) employees in New  
York) at any one time 21 any office of the Company for specific periods of not  
less than sixty (60) days and up to one {1} year in duration. The Union must give  
three (3) weeks’ advance notice for such leave requests. Any requests for  
extension of the sixty (60) day up to one (1) year period shall be granted  
provided that the total period of the original leave of absence and any extension  
thereof shall not exceed five (5) years in duration, unless a longer period is  
agreed to by both the Company and the Union. Upon the mutual agreement of  
both the Company and the Union, additional employees may be permitted to go  
on a long-term leave of absence for Union activity for penods which shall be  
mutually agreed upon.  
{n addition to the long-term leaves of absence granted pursuant to paragraph (a)  
above, the Company will give reasonable consideration to requests for short-term  
leaves of absence for Union activity. Reasonable notice for leaves of absence for  
Union activity shall be given to the Company by the Union; whenever possible,  
such notice shall be given at least two (2) weeks prior to the date requested for  
the beginning of such leave.  
The Union shall not make repeat leave requests for any individual for periods of  
less than sixty (60) days with the intent or effect of avoiding reaching the cap of  
two (2) emplayees (three (3) employees in New York) provided in subparagraph  
{a} above.  
An employee granted a leave of absence pursuant to this Paragraph 13.3 shall  
accrue seniority for all purposes during such leave of absence or any extension  
thereof granted pursuant hereto.  
37  
   
Section 13.4  
Section 13.4  
An employee who is granted a leave of absence of ninety (90) calendar days or  
less under circumstances where seniority is not otherwise accrued under the foregoing  
provisions of this Article XIII, shall nevertheless accrue for all purposes. Such  
leave of absence will be granted only if approved in advance by both the Company and  
the Union, in writing. If the Union refuses to approve such leave, the leave may be  
granted, but the employee will not accrue seniority during such leave, Except as  
otherwise provided in Article XIII and in Sections 11.6 and 11.8, any employee leaving  
the Unit shall forfeit his or her Unit Seniority.  
Section 13.5  
Upon request, the Company may grant a leave of absence of up to one (1) year to  
an employee for civic, educational or similar purposes. Such requests from employees  
will be processed expeditiously. If the Union and the Company agree. the employee's  
seniority upon resumption of employment shall be that which the employee had on the  
date of such leave.  
Section 13.6  
(a) A regular employee who is granted a leave of absence in accordance with the  
terms of this Article shall be permitted to continue to participate in the  
### Employee Life Insurance Plan, Medical Plan, Long Term Disability  
Income Plan, Dental Plan and the ABC-NABET-CWA Retirement Trust Fund,  
provided that during the period of the employee's leave of absence such employec  
shall make all employce contributions that he or she is otherwise obligated to  
make and that the employee shall also make al] contributions that the Company is  
otherwise obligated to make to provide coverage for such employee, commencing  
at such time as the Company normally requires its personne] on leave of absence  
to commence such contributions.  
(b) The New York urbitration award in Grievance AN 82-41 is deemed null and  
void,  
Section 13.7  
A tegular employee will be granted a leave of absence of three (3) days with pay  
in the event of a death in the immediate family (parents, parents-in-law, husband, wife,  
children, same sex domestic partner, brothers, sisters and grandparents). In the  
case of a serious iliness in the immediate family (as defined above), leaves in such  
38  
Section 13.7 Cont'd  
cases will be granted at the discretion of the Department Head of three (3) days with pay.  
With the approval of the Department Head, an extension of up to seven (7) consecutive  
days without pay may be granted in the case of either of the foregoing leaves duc to  
death or serious illness in the immediate family. For other justifiable personal reasons  
which cannot be attended ta outside of working hours (which may include travel days,  
where required, in addition to the allowable three (3) days for death in the family), leaves  
of absence with pay may be granted on the approval of the Department Head. Ifa Jeave  
because of death in the immediate family coincides with any part of an employee's  
vacation, the employce’s vacation time shall not be reduced as a result of such leave. In  
any case above where the discretion of the Department Head ts allowed or such approval  
is required, the Department Head will make such determination in a manner thal is  
neither arbitrary nor capricious.  
{See Stipulation (12) and Sideletter BR.)  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### DISCHARGES  
Section 14.1  
(a) The Company may discharge an employee for just cause. Notice of the discharge  
will be given to the Locat President of the Union, or another officer of the Union  
if the Local President is unavailable. If the discharge is not agreed to, the  
Company shall have the right to remove such employee from the payroll upon the  
issuance of an award of an Impartial! Umpire or Arbitrator sustaining the  
discharge, or two (2) weeks after the date of the notice to the Union provided  
above, whichever is earlier; or  
(b) — Alternatively to the rights stated in subparagraph (a) above, the Company may  
elect in its sole discretion to utilize the provisions of this subparagraph (b) in a  
discharge for “unsatisfactory performance”. For purposes of Section 14.1(b),  
“unsatisfactory performance” shall be deemed to include the inability or  
unwillingness to perform the particular work required by the Company.  
“Unsatisfactory performance” shall also include excessive absenteeism and  
The following terms and conditions shall apply:  
{1) Prior to the effectuation of any discharge under this subparagraph (b),  
an employee shall be so notified in writing and a copy of said notice  
sent to the Local Union President or his or her designee. The of  
management to have previously notified a dischargee that his or her  
performance has not been consistently satisfactory may not form the  
39  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
basis for any contention by the Union, or for any finding by an  
Arbitrator, that the Company’s determination hereunder is arbitrary or  
capricious, The employee, thereafter, will be afforded an eight (8)  
week minimum period of time to establish and maintain a satisfactory  
level of performance, Such notice to the employee that is provided  
shail be in writing and state that it constitutes notice under Section  
14.1(b), but such notice shal] not preclude the Company from imposing  
discipline on such employee under Section 14. 1I{a}. If, for a period of  
twelve (12) consecutive months following such notice the employee's  
overall performance is satisfactory, an employee shall no longer be  
subject to that particular notice of discharge.  
If, after the employee’s having been given this opportunity to establish  
and maintain a satisfactory level] of performance, the Company  
determines that a discharge under this Section 14,1(b) is appropriate,  
the Company may discharge the employee and notice of the discharge  
will be provided to the Union in the same manner as required for  
discharges under 14. f(a). Should the Union determine to arbitrate the  
discharge, the procedures to be followed are provided for in Section  
14,2.  
In determining the appropriateness of the discharge, the “just cause”  
standard of Section shall not apply and instead the Company's  
determination shall be sustained by the arbitrator unless he finds that  
the discharge is arbitrary or capricious,  
In the event that the discharge determination under Section 14.1(b) is  
sustained by the arbitrator, Section 15.1 shall be inapplicable and the  
Company shall have no obligation to provide a severance payment of  
any kind.  
Ifthe Union determines not to arbitrate a Section 14.1(b) termination,  
and the termination shall therefore be deemed accepted, the employee  
Shall be entitled to reccive a severance payment in the amount equal to  
three (3) weeks per year for cach full year of service with a cap of  
eighteen (18) months of pay at the employee's minimum weekly wage  
scale set forth in the Master Agreement, provided that the employee  
executes a general release satisfactory to the Company, and the Union  
agrees in writing not to pursue the discharge of this employee in this or  
any other legal proceeding. If this genera! release and Union agreement  
is not executed, no severance will be due.  
Section 14,1 (b) (5)  
(5) Neither the acceptance of any terminations nor any arbitration awards  
arising out of terminations made under Section 14.1(b) may be cited by  
either party in any other discipline arbitration.  
(c) [fat any time the Company determines that the particular nature of the  
“unsatisfactory performance” by itself or in combination with other conduct  
warrants proceeding instead under the “just cause” provisions of Section 14.1(a),  
it may elect to do so.  
(d) The Company shall have no obligation to transfer, reassign or train any employee  
to perform any other bargaining unit job function prior to a discharge for just  
cause or unsatisfactory performance.  
(See Sideletter ER.}  
Section 14.2  
If the Union believes that the discharge was not warranted, it may, within one  
(1) week of the date thereof, refer the matter to the Impartial Umpire for the office  
involved. It will be the obligation of the Umpire to hear the matter as expeditiously as  
possible and he or she may interrupt any other non-disciplinary case between the parties  
that he or she is then hearing in order to schedule a hearing on the discharge. If the  
Impartial Umpire for the office involved cannot hear the matter within three (3) working  
days of the reference to the Umpire by the Union, the matter may be referred to any one  
of the other Impartial Umpires tisted in Section 20.10. The Impartial Umpire who hears  
the case will render a decision within (wo (2) working days from the date of hearing. If  
requested by either the Company or Union at the conclusion of the hearing, the [mpartial  
Umpire shall, within fourteen (14) days of the conclusion of the hearing, follow up the  
decision with any further discussion or opinion on the case that the Umpire deems  
appropnate. If the Impartial Umpire decides that the discharge was not proper, but that  
suspension or other disciplinary action is warranted, the Impartial Umpire may so  
provide in his or her Award.  
(See Sideletter DZ.)  
Section 14.3  
(a) The Company may for just cause impose a disciplinary suspension without pay.  
Notice of such suspension shall be given to the Local President of the Union, or  
another officer of the Union if the Local President is unavailable, as soon as  
practicable after the imposition of the suspension.  
4)  
nection 14.3 ib}  
If the Union believes that the suspension was not warranted, it may, within one  
(1) week of receipt of the notice specified in Subparngraph (a) above, refcr the  
matter to the Impartial Umpire for the office involved. It will be the obligation  
of the Umpire to hear the matter as expeditiously as possible and he or she may  
interrupt any other non-disciplinary case between the parties that he or she is  
then hearing in order to schedule a hearing on the suspension. the Impartial  
Umpire for the office involved cannot hear the matter within three (3) working  
days of the reference to the Umpire by the Union, the matter may be referred to  
any one of the other Impartial Umpires listed in Section 20.10. The Impartial  
Umpire who hears the case will render a decision within two (2) working days  
from the date of hearing. If requested by either the Company or Union at the  
conclusion of the hearing, the Impartial Umpire shall, within fourteen {14) days  
of the conclusion of the hearing, follow up the decision with any further  
discussion or opinion on the case that the Umpire deems appropriate.  
{See Sideletter AE.)  
Section 14,4  
Except as provided in Sections 14.1 and 14.3 above, the Company may take  
whatever lesser disciplinary action against employees it deems appropriate (¢.z., letter of  
reprimand), provided, however, that in imposing such discipline the Company agrees thar  
it will not act in an arhitrary or capricious manner.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### SEVERANCE PAY  
Section 15.1  
The Company will grant to all regular employees who are laid off, severance pay  
in an amount equal to one (1) week’s pay for each year of Total Company Seniority:  
provided, however, that in no event shall a regular employee receive less than two (2)  
weeks’ severance pay. In addition, no employee shall receive severance pay pursuant to  
this Section more than one time during any calendar year, and under no circumstances  
will any severance pay be granted to an employee who is released from any period of  
employment of jess than four (4} wecks.  
(See Stipulation (15) and Sideletter AJ.)  
42  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### TRAVEL TIME  
Section 16,1  
fDeleted.]  
Section 16.2  
(a) All travel by common carrier shal] be in first class accommodation when  
(b)  
{c)  
available. Travel by means of any regularly scheduled train with available seating  
or commercial airline, including any aircraft of any such airline diverted to  
charter, shall constitute “first class accommodation” within the meaning of this  
Section.  
The term “common carrier” as applied to out-of-town travel shall include planes,  
trains and boats. In addition, upon notice to the Local Union involved and where  
more convenient than other common carners because of the schedules and  
availabilities of such other carriers, air-conditioned buses may be used for trips  
not in excess of three hundred (300) miles determined as in Section 7.8. On bus  
tnips longer than four (4) hours the Company will allow an appropriate meal  
break, not to exceed one hour, at a sultable restaurant (at the employee's  
expense), or in the alternative the Company may elect to provide food en route as  
in the past (e.g., a box lunch).  
(See Sideletter AA.}  
No employee shall be required to use a form of transportation which is excepted  
from coverage under a normal form of life, health or accident insurance which  
the employee has in effect unless the Company has made arrangements in  
advance to maintain such coverage or to provide an equivalent substitute,  
Employees whose individual insurance policies contain features which might  
require the Company to make arrangements under this Subparagraph (c} shall so  
advise the Company. However, even absent such notice, the Company will  
maintain insurance coverage which will pay, in addition to any other benefit, the  
amount of any individual life or accidental death and dismemberment insurance,  
subject to a maximum of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00), which  
is invalidated because of exclusions appearing in such policies arising out of:  
(i) riding as a passenger, and not as a pilot or crew member, in any aircraft,  
other than experimental aircraft, while on Company business; and  
43  
Section 16.2 (c) Cont'd  
(i) riding as a passenger or driver in any land or sea conveyance while on  
Company business,  
(See Sideletter AX.)  
(d) No modifications in the provisions of this Section shall be effective unless agreed  
10 in writing by the Local Union or Local Unions invalved.  
Section 16.3  
When available, the Company shall provide first class hotel or equivalent  
accommodations with single occupancy. Should the Union claim that first class hotel or  
equivalent accommodations with single occupancy have not been provided but are  
available within a reasonable distance of the pickup, a Company representative at the  
location, in conjunction with a representative of the crew, will investigate and consider  
such claim immediately, If they agree that such claim is valid, a change of  
accommodations will be made within twenty-four (24) hours.  
Section 16.4  
Employees shalt be credited for travel time only as follows:  
(a) “Travel-Only” Days  
On a “travel-only” day to an out-of-town assignment, an employee's work day and  
travel time shall begin at the scheduled departure time of the common carrier and  
shal] end thirty (30) minutes after the employee arrives at the gate, rain station or  
port at the out-of-town destination, with a minimum daily credit of eight (8)  
hours of pay at the regular rate of pay.  
Upon returning from an out-of-town assignment, an employee’s work day and  
travel time shali commence as described in the preceding sentence and shall end  
when the carrier arrives at the gate, train station or port at the out-of-town  
destination, with a minimum daily credit of eight (8) hours of pay at the regular  
rate of pay. There shall be no crediting of any travel time from the airport, train  
station or port.  
Article 1X and shall be inapplicable on any “travel-only” day(s), and no  
meal period need be scheduled or assigned on such day(s), nor shall any meal  
period penalties accrue on such days.  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
   
“Travel-Work” Days  
An work day and travel time on an out-of-town assignment shall  
begin at the scheduled departure time of the common carrier. The employee's  
work day shall] end in accordance with Section 16.6(b} when the employee  
completes his/her duties at the out-of-town work site to which he/she is assigned  
on that day. Article IX and A-VIII shall be inapplicable on “travel work” day(s)  
and no meal period need be scheduled or assigned on such day(s), nor shalt] any  
meal period penaltics accrue on such days. An employee, however, shall be given  
a thirty (30) minute opportunity to eat upon armval at the destination location, tf  
the employee has not already been given, or is not scheduled to be given, a meal  
period that day.  
“Work-Travel” Days  
The employee’s work day shat] begin upon the commencement of assigned duties  
at the out-of-town work site in accordance with Section 16.6(b), and shall end  
when the employee returning from an out-of-town assignment arrives at the gate,  
train station or port at the destination. However, if the employee is traveling to  
another out-of-town assignment, travel time shall end thirty (30) minutes after  
arrival at the gate, train station or port of destination at such other out-of-town  
assignment. There shall be no crediting of any travel time from the airport, train  
Station or port when the employee returns from his/her out-of-town  
assignment(s). On “work-travel” days Article 1X and A-VIII shall be inapplicable  
and no meal period need he scheduled or assigned on such day(s), nor shall any  
meal penod penalties accrue during such days. An employee, however, will be  
given a thirty (30) minute opportunity to eat either before commencing, or upon  
completion of, the travel portion of the day, unless the employee has already been  
given, or is scheduled to be given, a meal period that day.  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 16.4, the Company shall  
continue to credit reasonable travel time to ENG crews transporting their  
equipment to and from the airport, train station or port on out-of-town  
assignments. This shall also apply to ENG crews transporting their  
equipment who are daily hired, in lieu of any travel stipend otherwise provided  
for in Section A143.  
45  
Section 16.4 (¢}  
(e) Settlement Agreement Voided  
The settlement dated March 17, 1976 between James Nolan and William  
Gennerich, and ali practices related thereto or arising therefrom, whether in New  
York or elsewhere, are null and void.  
Section 16.5  
When an employee is scheduled by the Company to travel from his or her home  
to a fieid pickup on an assignment which does not require the employee to stay away  
from home overnight, the employee shall be credited with the time normally required to  
travel from his or her home office to such field pickup. If such employee is not  
scheduled to return to the home office from such assignment, the employee shal! be  
credited with a like amount of time for the return to his or her home. The Company and  
the Local Union involved shall agree as to the location of the “home office(s)” for the  
purpose of this Paragraph.  
Section 16,6  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
Home office shall be defined as any Company office to which the employee is  
normally attached, or the out-of-town hotel or headquarters to which the  
employee may be assigned by the Company for the duration of the assignment.  
On an out-of-town assignment requiring an employee to between his or her  
hotel accommodations and the remote site, an employee’s work day shall begin at  
the employee’s commencement of assigned duties at the remote site and end at the  
completion of such duties at the remote site, but will also include only that amount  
of daily travel time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour each way, as determined and  
approved in advance by the appropriate Company manager at the remote site taking  
into consideration normal driving speeds and the most direct route possible  
between the hotel and the remote site. Travel time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour  
each way shall be paid in minimum segments of five (5) minutes.  
Employees on out-of-town assignments shall be permitted to check in ai their  
designated hotel or other accommodation prior to reporting to their assigned job  
location and to check out of such hotel or other accommodation at the conclusion  
of such assignment; except that in an emergency situation this shall not be  
required, in which event, where it is necessary for employees to change or store  
their clothes before reporting to their assigned location, or to change their clothes  
at the conclusion of such assignment, the Company will provide suitable  
accommodations to cover the situation. This provision shail not be applicable to  
“travel-only” days.  
46  
tion  
Section 16.7  
[Deleted.]  
Section 16.8  
When travel is continuous On a common carrier during the period between the  
hours of 12:00 Midnight and 8:00 A.M., local time, and suitable sleeping facilities are  
available, no credit shall be allowed. For the purpose of this Paragraph a single  
occupancy berth is construed to be suitable sleeping facilities. When travel is designated  
by the Company on conveyances which do not have suitable sleeping facilities, full time  
credit shall be allowed.  
Section 16.9  
[Deleted.]  
Section 16,10  
[Deleted.]  
Section 16.11  
An employee shall receive an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours’ pay at his or  
her straight-time rate for each regularly scheduled day off occurring during an out-of-  
town assignment provided that no traveling occurs and no work is performed on such day  
off. No holiday repayment shall be permitted while on such out-of-town assignment. An  
employee who has received ten (10) or more such payments in any calendar year shall  
receive one (]) week of vacation in addition to such employee's vacation entitlement  
under Article XIX tn the succeeding calendar year.  
Section 16.12  
If an employee is transferred from a studio location to a transmitter location or  
vice versa, and such transfer necessitates increased travel expense to and from the  
employee’s home, the Company shal] reimburse the employee for such increased travel  
expense for a period not to exceed three (3) months,  
47  
Section 16,13  
Section [6,13  
If an employee is temporarily assigned to a news bureau for a local station within  
his or her regular Company office, he or she shall be credited with trave! pay only to the  
extent and amount of time that the temporary assignment to the bureau lengthens the  
employce’s commute to and from his or her otherwise regular assipnment,  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### USE OF EMPLOYEE’S CAR  
Section 17.1  
Compensation at the rate of Thirty-Six Cents ($.36) per mile with a minimum  
payment of Five-Dollars ($5.00) shall be allowed an employee for using his or her  
automobile with the consent of the Company in executing the business of the Company,  
except in no event shall the employee receive credit for the time consumed in traveling  
between his or her home and office. However, it is agreed and understood that the use of  
an employee's car is not mandatory.  
If the Company increases or lowers the rate per mile for employces of the  
Company generally, such increase or reduction shall automatically be made  
applicable to the employees covered by this Agreement without prior notice or  
negotiations with the Union over such change.  
Section 17.2  
(a) The Company shall cause the insurance protection of the automobile  
policies which it maintains to be extended so as to provide insurance coverage to  
an employee who uses an automobile on a Company assignment on which the use  
of the automobile was specifically authorized by the Company, Such coverage  
shall provide insurance protection up to Three Million Dotlars ($3,000,000.00)  
against liability for bodily injuries to others or property damage sustamed by  
others, incurred while such employee so uses such automobile, and the insurance  
protection shall be to the same extent and manner as, and under the sare  
limitations, terms and conditions as such insurance policies afford protection to  
the Company. Such insurance protection shall not apply to the extent that other  
valid insurance shall protect such employee against such liability under the  
aforesaid circumstances.  
48  
Section (7.2(b)  
(b) If, while an employee uses an automobile on a Company assignment on which  
the use of the automobile was specifically authorized by the Company, such  
automobile is damaged by collision or upset or other cause, and the actual cost of  
repair thereof exceeds Fifty Dollars the Company will: (i) if the  
automobile is not otherwise insured against such damage, reimburse the  
employee to the extent of the actual cost of repairing such automobile or the  
actual cash value of the automobile, whichever is the lesser; or {ii} if such  
automobile is otherwise insured against such damage, reimburse such employee  
to the extent of the amount of any deductible imposed by the insurance carrier in  
the settlement of the claim,  
Section 17.3  
Whenever it is used in this Article, the term “automobile” shal] be defined as any  
land motor vehicle (excluding trailers) designed for travel on public roads.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### HOLIDAYS  
Section 18.1  
The following shal] be deemed to be holidays under this provision,  
irrespective of the day of the week on which the holiday may fall: NEW YEAR’S DAY  
(January 1), PRESIDENTS’ DAY (third Monday in February), MEMORIAL DAY  
(last Monday in May), THANKSGIVING DAY (fourth Thursday in November) and  
CHRISTMAS DAY (December 25).  
Section 18.2  
If an employee is required to work on any of the aforesaid holidays, the employee  
will receive, in lieu of other compensation, compensation at the rate of one and one-half  
(1-1/2) times his or her straight time rate of pay for all straight time hours worked,  
and at the rate of two (2) times the employee's straight time rate of pay for all overtime  
hours worked.  
Section 18.3  
If an employee is required to work on any of the aforesaid holidays, and such  
holiday is on such employce’s scheduled day off, the employee shall receive, in lieu of  
other compensation, compensation ai the rate of two (2) times his or her straight time  
rate of pay for the first eight (8} hours of work and at the rate of two and one-half (2-1/2)  
times the straight time rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of eight (8).  
49  
Section 18.4  
Section 18.4  
In the cases referred to in Sections 18.2 and 18.3 above, the employee shall  
receive one (1) extra day off consecutive with his or her regular scheduled days off in  
addition to the compensation provided for above.  
(See Stipulation (3).)}  
Section 18.5  
If the holiday falls on an employee's day off, he or she shall receive one (1) extra  
day off, consecutive with the employee’s regular days off.  
Section 18.6  
The extra day off referred to in Sections 18.4, 18.5 and 18.8 shall be designated  
by the Company and add twenty-four (24) hours to the sixty (60) specified in Section  
8.3. The Company will make a reasonable attempt to satisfy the wishes of the individual  
employee tn scheduling such extra day off, and such day may be added to the employee's  
vacation by mutual agreement. No such holiday credit shall be repaid before the holiday  
except by mutual agreement between the employce and the Company, and in the event  
the Company does not give such extra day off within twelve (12} months following the  
holiday, the employee shail receive one (1) day’s straight time pay. Except as provided  
below, in each calendar year, the Campany must satisfy the wishes of the individual  
employee in scheduling two (2) of the extra days off referred to in Sections 18.4 or 18.5  
(herein called mandatory payback days) provided that the employee who is owed such  
days notifies the Company in wnting within a penod of fourteen (14) days following the  
holiday concerned that it is to be considered a mandatary payback day and that within a  
period of three (3} months following the holiday the employee requests in writing a  
specific date for the day off three (3) weeks in advance of such date, which date shall be  
within twelve (12) months following the holiday.  
The grievance settlement in case number AS 85-34, which requires four (4)  
weeks notice before the Company pays out a payback day not scheduled within the  
requisite time, and all practices related thereto are henceforth null and void.  
Under no circumstances shall the Company be required to schedule any  
mandatory payback day(s) for any employee(s) within a particular cost center at  
the television Network, or by department (e.g., Creative Services, Engineering or  
News) at the television stations where doing so would mean the absence, for any and  
all types of leaves, of more than ten percent (10%) of the employees within such cost  
center(s) or department(s). If more than ten percent (10%) of the employees in a  
50  
   
Section 18.6 Cont'd  
particular cost center or department request the same day as a mandatory payback day,  
the Company shall schedule the day on a first-come, first-served basis up to the ten  
percent (10%) limit and the Company may deny remaining mandatory payback day  
requests, which denial shall not be subject to arbitration. If the total number of  
in any particular cost center or department is fewer than ten, “ten percent  
(10%)” shall be deemed to be one (1) employee.  
In Radio, in lieu of the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to schedule  
any mandatory payback day(s) where domg so would mean the absence, for any and all  
types of leaves of more than one {1} employee at any Radio Network operation, or any  
radio station.  
The requirement of consecutiveness set forth in Sections 18.4 and [8.5 shaJl not  
be applicable to the mandatory payback days. Notwithstanding, the foregoing provisions  
regarding mandatory payback days, an employee, in lieu of selection one or both  
mandatory payback days as provide above, may require, once in any calendar year, that  
the Company schedule one or both extra days off earned under Section 18.4 or 18.5  
contiguous to the employee's vacation if the employee so notifies the Company in  
writmg within a period of fourteen (14) days following the holiday concerned, or in lieu  
of selection one or both mandatory payback days as provide in this Section he or she  
may elect to receive one or both day’s straight time pay if the employee so notifies the  
Company in writing within a period of fourteen (14) days following the holiday  
concerned. No holiday listed in Section 18.1 may be selected as a date for a mandatory  
payback day.  
Section 18.7  
Each day an employee is excused from working because of a holiday to his or her  
credit shall, subject to all terms and conditions hereof, reduce by eight (8} hours the  
wark week of such employee for such week,  
Section 18.8  
If an employee works on a day that has been scheduled as a payback day, the  
employee will receive in lieu of other compensation, compensation at the rate of two (2)  
times his or her straight time rate of pay for all straight time hours worked, and at the  
rate of two and one-half (2-1/2) times the straight time rate of pay for all  
overtime hours worked. The employee shall receive one (1) extra day off consecutive  
with his or her regular scheduled days off in addition to such compensation.  
5]  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### VACATIONS  
Section 19.1  
{a)  
An employce who is on the on December 25th, of any year shall be  
entitled to vacation with pay in the succeeding year, as follows:  
Total Company Seniority Weeks of Vacation  
As.of December 25th. With  
Less than five (5) years Three {3) weeks  
Five (5) or more years  
but less than fifteen {15} Four (4) weeks  
Fifteen (15) or more years Five (5) weeks  
(See Sideletter GT.)  
(b) Notwithstandmg the preceding subparagraph (a), employees actively  
employed on the Company payroll as of December 25, 2003 who as of such  
date have accrued vacation entitlement for 2004 vacations in an amount in  
excess of the schedule set forth in subparagraph (a) above shaii be entitled  
to keep that specific greater vacation entitlement for the period of their  
employment but shall not be entitled thereafter to carn any greater vacation  
entitlement. For example, an employee who has accrued twenty (20} or  
more years but less than twenty-five (25) years as of December 25, 2003  
shall for 2004 vacations and thereafter be entitled to six (6) weeks of  
vacation, but shall not be thereafter entitled to any further vacation  
allowance.  
Section 19.2  
An employee on the payroll on December 25th of any year who is terminated  
on or after December 25th for any reason will be entitled to vacation as specified in  
this Article, or payment in lieu of vacation plus any payment to which the employee  
may be entitled pursuant to Article XVII, except that an employee who is on the  
payroll on December 25th but who has less than six (6} months of Tota] Company  
Seniority credit as of the date of termination, and who is terminated prior to April Ist  
of the succeeding year, shall receive one (1} week’s vacation pay plus any payment to  
which the employee may be entitled pursuant to Article XVIU, plus one (1) day's pay  
52  
   
Section 19.2 Cont'd  
for each of the following days which falt within his or her period of employment:  
### LINCOLN’S BIRTHDAY, JULY FOURTH, LABOR DAY, ELECTION DAY and THE  
### DAY AFTER THANKSGIVING,  
Section 19.3  
An employee who acquires five (5) years’ Total Company Seniority in any year  
shall thereupon be entitied to a fourth (4th) week’s vacation with pay consecutive with  
his or her regular vacation in such year,  
Section 19.4  
An employee who acquires fifteen (15) years” Total Company Seniority in any  
year shal] thereupon be entitled to a fifth (Sth) week of vacation with pay consecutive  
with his or her regular vacation in such year.  
Section 19.5  
[Deleted.}  
Section 19.6  
[Deleted.]  
Section 19.7  
An employee who its terminated prior to December 25th of any year who has  
received his or her vacation for that year, shall not be entitled to any vacation pay on  
termination,  
Section 19.8  
(a) An employee engaged between December 26th of the preceding year and  
April 30th of the current year inclusive (excluding vacation relief employees)  
shall receive one ([} week's vacation with pay in such year, plus any payment  
to which the employee may be entitled pursuant to Article XVIII, plus one (1)  
day’s pay for each of the “holidays” set forth in (b) below which occur during  
his or her employment in the current calendar year. An employee who is  
terminated between December 26th of the preceding year and April 30th of  
the current year inclusive shall not be entitled to pay for any vacation unless  
he or she shall have been employed for at least three (3) months preceding  
the date of termination. An employee engaged after April 30th (excluding  
$3  
   
Section 19.8 (a) Cont'd  
vacation relief employees) shall receive one (1) day’s vacation with pay for  
each month he or she has been employed by the Company prior to the  
beginning of the vacation for that year, not to exceed five (5) work  
days, plus any payment to which he or she may be entitled pursuant to Article  
XVIII, plus one (1) day’s pay for each of the “holidays” set forth in (b) below  
which occur during the employee’s employment. -  
(b) The “holidays” referred to in (a) above are: LINCOLN’S BIRTHDAY, JULY  
### FOURTH, LABOR DAY, ELECTION DAY and THE DAY AFTER  
### THANKSGIVING.  
Section [9.9  
The provisions in Section 19.8 above excluding vacation relief employees  
from vacation rights shall not apply where such employees are retained in employment  
beyond October 31st of the year in question. Any regular employee who is laid off and  
is subsequently rehired on a temporary basis, if not retained beyond October 31st ofthe  
then current year, shall nevertheless be entitled to one (1) day of vacation for each month  
of temporary service.  
Section 19.10  
Vacation periods for employees shal] be determined and posted by April Ist of  
each year except for Engineering and Traffic which shall be determined and posted by  
March Ist and shall fall within the period April [st through October 31st, and shall not  
be changed except by mutual consent of the Company and the focal committee. Before  
February Ist of each year the local management and local committee shall confer for the  
purpose of discussing vacation scheduling. Vacation preferences within the operating  
group to which the employees are assigned shall be given to employees on the basis of  
Unit Seniority. Vacations may be taken outside the period specified above by mutual  
consent of the Company and the local committee. Ne employee covered by these  
agreements shal] be required to give up his or her free choice of vacation (during the  
period as shown above) to any person not covered by these agreements.  
In lieu of the above, in television and Network Radio at the Washington  
office of the Company, at Network Radio in New York and at each television Owned  
Station, vacations will be scheduled to fall within the period from January | through  
December 31. Vacation periods shall be determined and posted by December | of the  
preceding year, and shall not be changed except by mutual consent of the Company  
and the local committee. Prior to December | of each preceding year, the local  
management and local committee shall confer for the purpose of discussing  
vacation scheduling. Vacation preferences within the operating group to which the  
54  
   
Section [9.J0 Cont'd  
employees are assigned shall be given to employees on the basis of Unit Seniority. No  
employee covered by these agreements shali be required to give up his or her free choice  
of vacation (during the period as shown above) to any person not covered by these  
agreements,  
In Washington, D.C., the nature and scope of each operating group within which  
employees select vacations pursuant to this Section 19.10 shall be determined in the  
discretion of the Company. Nothing herein shall be deemed to alter any established  
practices in any other office of the Company.  
(See Sideletter AS.)  
Section 19.11  
An employee who qualiftes for more than two (2) weeks’ vacation under Section  
19.1 shall have the right to take such additional vacation at some other time during the  
vacation period subject to selection on a Unit basis among those employees so  
splitting their vacations after the vacations of employees not splitting their vacations have  
been established.  
Section 19.12  
No employee may be recalled to duty for any reason during his or her vacation  
periad, The Company shall make a reasonable attempt to days off consecutive  
with the employce’s vacation selection.  
Sectron 19.13  
Afier discussion and agreement with local management and with due regard for  
schedule requirements, an employee shail be permitted 10 split his or her vacation and  
take part of the total vacation in a separate period of one (1} or two (2) weeks at a time  
during the vacation period selected in accordance with seniority after the primary portion  
of al] other vacations of employees in the same vacation group have been selected.  
Section 19.14  
{a} = The following will be applied in computing vacations for returning servicemen  
and servicewomen:  
,  
(1) Upon going into the service the employee receives in time or money all  
vacation due him or her up to that time.  
55  
   
Section 19.14 (a) (2)  
(b)  
Section 19,15  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
(5)  
All time spent in service is counted in accruing seniority for all  
purposes under the NABET agreements including the requisite periods  
of more than five (5) years for the extra vacation.  
Those returning after the vacation season will receive no vacation until  
the following year.  
If the number of months the employee worked in the year in which he  
or she went into the service, added to the number of months he or she  
worked in the year in which the employee returned from service, is  
twelve (12) months or less, he or she shal! receive one (1) full vacation  
period or vacation pay, for both years combined.  
Subject 10 Paragraph (3), if ihe sum exceeds twelve (12) months, the  
total vacation for the combined years shall be prorated, a fractional day  
counting as a full day. For example, if the sum ts eighteen (18) months,  
the employee shall receive a total of one and one-half (1-1/2) vacations  
for both years and if, for example, the employee received in time or  
money a full vacation on leaving, the employee would be entitled to  
one-half (1/2) of a full vacation for the year in which he or she returns.  
When an employee who has been on an unpaid leave of absence for a total of  
more than sixty (60) working days in any calendar year pursuant to any Section  
of Article XIH returns to active employment during the course of that year, he or  
she shaif receive a pro-rated vacation in the subsequent year, The number of  
weeks (or days} of such vacation shal] be based on a fraction, the numerator of  
which shall be the total number of workweeks worked by the employee in the  
year he or she returns from the leave of absence and the denominator of which  
shall be fifty-two (52), multiplied by the applicable number of weeks set forth in  
Section 19,1, The employee will be entitled to time off without pay for the  
unpaid portion of his or her vacation.  
Where an employee is entitled under the terms of this Agreement to vacation or  
holiday pay on termination of employment, such payment shall be made to his or her  
estate in the case of the employee’s death.  
56  
Section 19.16  
At the Company’s television stations in New York, San Francisco, Chicago and  
Los Angeles, and at its Washington office, an employee eligible for vacation may  
schedule one week of his or her vacation entitlement in single days, in accordance with  
the following:  
(a) The employee must elect this option on hts or her first pick;  
{b) Single days in any particular vacation selection Group will not be  
permitted if vacation selections for such Group are already at  
maximum level;  
{c) Requests for scheduling single vacation days must be made in writing  
to the appropriate Company scheduling office and the Local Commitiee  
for the station in which the employee is assigned no less than ten (10)  
days prior to the posting of the schedule on which the requested day off  
will be shown, and will be considered on a first-come, first-served  
basis;  
(d} Requests for single vacation days will be scheduled subject to  
manpower requirements as determined by the management of the  
station involved;  
(e) No fewer than three (3) of the five (5) single vacation days must be  
used prior to August 30 of the given year, or such days may be  
scheduled by the Station. The scheduling of any remaining single  
vacation days must be completed no later than the day after Labor Day  
of the given year or those remaining days may be scheduled by the  
Station;  
(f} Single vacation days cannot be transferred to any subsequent year, and,  
(g} Under no circumstanccs will single vacation days be paid for rather  
than taken as time off.  
Nothing shall preclude the Local Committee for the Station and the Company  
from agreeing to modify any portion of this provision by mutual agreement.  
37  
### ARTICLE XX  
### GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION  
Section 20.1  
Should a grievance arise dunng the term of this Agreement, the aggrieved  
employee or employees shall contact the designated Union Steward. The grievance shall  
be discussed promptly by the Steward (or another Union representative designated by the  
Local President) and the destgnated management supervisor for the purpose of  
ascertaining the relevant facts and attempting Such Steward or other  
designated Union representative and the management supervisor shall each have the  
authority to settle the specific incident involved in the grievance on terms mutually  
acceptable to them. Any settlements so reached sha/l be immediately reduced to writing  
on a special form which shall state the essential facts involved including the date,  
location, Company and Union personnel involved, the precise request made by the  
employee or the Union and the reason therefor and which shall be signed by the Steward  
or other Union representative and the management supervisor. Each such settlement  
Shall automatically be deemed to contain the following clause: “This resolution is made  
on 2 no-preccdent basis, is without prejudice to the position of either the Company or the  
Union with respect to any contractual issues that may be and may not be cited  
in any subsequent arbitration or other legal proceeding other than one involving the  
enforcement of this particular resolution.  
Ifa resolution is reached, a copy wili be forwarded tw the Local Union President  
or his or her designee and the Company's Labor Relations Department. Either party shall  
nevertheless have the right to submit the incident to arbitration (alleging the incident did  
or did not involve a violation of the Agreement) as if no resolution had been reached, but  
only after discussion of such resolution at a mecting held pursuant to Sideletter BY  
within one hundred ten (110) days after the date of the resolution. In the case of matters  
submitted to arbitration pursuant to this Paragraph, the thirty (30) day time limit recited  
in the last Paragraph of this Section shall not commence until after the discussion of  
such matter at the meeting held pursuant to Sideletter BY,  
If during any calendar year at any office of the Company either party arbitrates  
more than three (3) incidents originally resolved in accordance with the procedures  
established above, the other party may, upon thiny (30) days’ written notice, have the  
option to delete this Section 20,1 from the Master Agreement at that particular office and  
to substitute therefor the Section 20.1] that appeared in the 1977-81 Master Agreement.  
38  
   
Section 26.1 Contd  
Should the grievance remain unresolved after such discussion it shall be reduced  
to writing on appropriate forms and signed by the employee, the Steward or, in the case  
of a grievance filed by the Union, by any Union representative. The written grievance  
shall state the essential facts involved including the date, location and the Company and  
Union personnel involved. Such written grievance shall be filed with the management  
supervisor and with the Union for processing to the Local Grievance Committee,  
No gricvance may be filed more than thirty (30) days after knowledge of the  
incident or condition which gave rise to the grievance was known, or should have been  
known, to the Union.  
(See Sideletter BY.)  
Section 20,2  
(a} — In the event that an employee has a personal complaint, the employee may  
discuss the complaint with his or her management supervisor, his or her Steward  
or both, provided, however, that the Steward or other Union representative shall  
have the right to be present at the resolution of the complaint. If the complaint is  
not satisfied and the matter is one which, if proven, would constitute a violation  
of a specific provision of the Master Agreement, it may be submitted as a  
grievance under Section 20.1  
(b) Ifa written complaint about an employee is made a part of the  
record, such employee will be given the particulars of such complaint in  
writing. Any written response by the affected employee will likewise be made  
a part of such record.  
Section 20.3  
The Local Gnevance Committee shal! be designated by the Union at each office,  
and its size shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties, Local grievance meetings shall  
be held at each office as determined by the parties at each office with respect to  
frequency and duration, regardless of past practices, arbitration awards and grievance  
resolutions, but no less frequently than quarterly, unless mutually agreed to by the  
parties, In the New York Offices, the foregoing shall be applied to Network  
and Television Station operations separately.  
(See Sideletter BY.)  
59  
   
Section 20.4  
Section 20.4  
A duly authorized representative of NABET may investigate or inspect  
operations of the Company covered by this Agreement at reasonable hours and in such  
manner as not to disturb the normal operations of the Company.  
Section 20.5  
When any member of the Local Grievance Committee is called upon to meet  
with a Company representative pursuant to the provisions of this Article, the following  
shall apply:  
(a) If said member of the Committee has been cleared for the day for such meeting,  
the member shall receive his or her regular day's pay for such day, regardless of  
the length of such meeting.  
(b) ‘If said member of the Committee is on duty and is called to such meeting, and  
such meeting continues past the scheduted quitting time for the day, he  
or she shail be paid at the applicable overtime rate for all hours after such  
scheduled quitting time.  
(c) In the event a member of the attends any such meeting on the  
member's scheduled day aff, he or she shall receive a substitute day off at a time  
mutually agreeable to the member and his or her supervisur, which day necd not  
be consccutive with the member's two (2} regularly scheduled days off.  
In no event shal! any penalty payments accrue as a result of attendance al  
any Meeting as described herein.  
Where an ernployee who is not a member of the Local Grievance Committee  
participates in a grievance mecting with the mutual consent of the Company and the  
Local Union, the above provisions will apply to such employee.  
Section 20.6  
If the gricvance is noi settled within ten (10) days of its discussion at the  
grievance meeting, or if the grievance has not been discussed at a meeting held  
pursuant to the terms of Section 20.3 within sixty (60) days of its filing, either party  
may request arbitration by delivering a signed, written notice to that effect directed  
to the other party and to the appropriate Impartial Umpire or to the American  
Arbitration Association, as governed by Section 20.8 below. The following persons  
shall serve as Impartial Umpires during the term of this Agreement: (1) for grievances  
60  
   
arising tn the New York office - Howard Edelman and Jack Tillem; (ii) for grievances  
arising in the Chicago office the parties shall continue their discussions for a mutually  
acceptable Impartial Umpire. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement, an  
arbitrator shall be selected in accordance with Section 20.8; {i1i) for grievances arising in  
the Washington office the parties shal] continue their discussions for a mutually  
acceptable Impartial Umpire. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement, an  
arbitrator shall be selected in accordance with Section 20.8; (iv) for grievances arising in  
the Los Angeles office - Howard Biock, Sara Adler, and Michael Prihar; (v) for  
grievances arising in the San Francisco office - Joseph Gentile and Fred Horowitz; (vi)  
for grievances arising in Section 20.10 cases as provided below and grievances involving  
more than one (1) office - Howard Edelman.  
At any time the parties may, by mutual agreement and upon thirty (30) days*  
written notice to the arbitrator, remove any of the arbitrators fisted in this Section or in  
Section 20.10. In the event of the resignation or incapacity of an Impartial Umpire, a  
successor shall be named by the parties within thirty (30) days to serve for the remainder  
of the term. This thirty (30) day period may be extended by the mutual agreement of the  
Company and the Union.  
In San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York, where two (2) or three (3) Umpires  
are designated, the Umpire shal] be selected in rotation, provided that if the appropriate  
Umpire has no available dates for heanng the case within a reasonable period of time  
after the matter is referred to him or her for arbitration, the matter shall be referred to the  
next Limpire in rotation who has such available dates.  
At any time commencing one (1} year after the effective date of this Agreement,  
each party may once strike the name of one (1) Umpire from the New York, San  
_Francisco and/or Los Angeles lists and such Umpire(s) shall thereafter immediately,  
upon the sending of the notice striking his or her appointment, cease to serve except that,  
as to any case where the hearing has already opened, the arbitrator wil] continue to serve  
until the issuance of his or her award. Any such Umpire who ts struck in New York shall  
also automatically and simultaneously be deemed struck from the list for grievances  
arising under Section 20,10 and/or grievances invalving more than one (1} office of the  
Company.  
Section 20.7  
{a} Ifa written grievance that has been filed pursuant to the terms of Section 20.1  
of this Agreement is not answered in writing by the Company within thirty  
(30) days after its initial discussion at a grievance meeting, or such longer  
period of time as may mutually be agreed in by the Company and  
the Union (including a Local), and such written grievance is subsequently  
61  
   
‘on 20 d  
submitted to arbitration pursuant to the provisions of Section 20.8 of this  
Agreement, the Company will pay the entire daily hearing charges of the  
Impartia! Umpire or arbitrator, whichever is the case, for the first (1st} day of  
hearing on such gnevance. A grievance which is not referred to arbitration  
within forty (40) days after its initial discussion at a gnevance meeting or within  
twenty (20) days after receipt by the Union of the Company's written answer,  
whichever is later, or such longer period of time as may be mutually agreed to in  
writing by the Company and the Union (including a Local} shall be deemed  
abandoned. A grievance which has been abandoned shall not be deemed to be a  
settlernent or an arbitral determination adverse to the grieving party; the grieving  
party shall be deemed to have protested the incident or incidents upon which the  
closed grievance was based, but shail not be deemed to have filed a formal  
grievance relating thereto and may not file a subsequent grievance based upon  
such specific incident or incidents.  
(b) Any gnevance filed on or after February 5, 1999 as to Units “B”, “K”, “M”, “O”,  
“Pp? and “TF”, and July 2}, 1999 as to Units “A”, “D", “F”, “W", and “X”,  
which is not resolved within three (3) years of the date it was filed shall also be  
deemed abandoned.  
{c)} | The Company’s Vice President of Labor Relations and the Sector President of the  
Union shall meet within ninety (90) days of the date of notice of ratification on a  
hationa! basis in New York City to discuss and attempt to resolve all gnevances  
which were filed more than threc ycars prior to the date of the notice of  
ratification of a successor agreement.  
Section 20.8  
If the appropriate Impartial Umpire has no available dates for hearing the case  
within a reasonable time after the matter is referred to said Umpire for arbitration, or if  
there is no Impartial Umpire for a particular office of the Company, the case may be  
referred to the American Arbitration Association (AAA) in that city in accordance with  
the AAA’s rules, and shall be determined by an arbitrator selected pursuant to such rules.  
Notwithstanding any AAA rules to the contrary, the parties shall have at least two (2)  
panels from which to select.  
Section 20.9  
Grievance settlements, withdrawals of grievances and practices at offices of the  
Company other than the office in which the being arbitrated was filed shall not  
be considered by the arbitrator and/or Impartia! Umpire in connection with the  
arbitration of such grievance. The arbitration award shall be applicable only to the office  
in which the grievance was filed. The foregoing provisions of this Section  
62  
Section 20.9 Cont'd  
20.9 shall not preclude the arbitrator from considering gnevance settlements,  
withdrawals of grievances and practices at the office where the gnevance was filed.  
Section 20.10  
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this Article XX, if a party to  
the Agreement claims that there will be a violation of Article V, VI, VII, A-I] or A-[V, or  
of Section 8.10(¢c) of Article VIII, or of an arbitration award, such party shal] have the  
right to file a grievance'directly with the Impartial Umpire setting forth such claim,  
demanding injunctive relief, and invoking the expedited arbitration procedure set forth  
below. However, this Section 20.10, which is applicable only to actions not yet  
effectuated, shall be used only if time does not permit the processing of the grievance  
under the other sections of Article XX. No grievance shall be filed under this Section  
20.10 until such grievance has been discussed by a designated officer of the Local Union  
involved or the Sector and a member of the Labor Relations Department, A copy of the  
notice invoking this Section shail be sent simultaneously to the other party. Under the  
expedited procedure, the arbitration hearings shall commence at the earliest availability  
of the Impartial Umpire, but in no event more than twenty-four (24) hours afier the  
grievance has been filed with the Impartial Umpire unless the grieving party consents to  
an extension of time.  
If Howard Edelman ts unable or unwilling to meet the foregoing time schedule,  
the grievance may be filed before the then current Umpire(s) designated in the  
appropriate list in Section 20.6 in the case of a grievance arising in New York, Chicago,  
Washington, Los Angeles or San Francisco, who shall be the impartial Umpire for that  
grievance. At any time that there are nvo (2) or more New York, Chicago, Washington,  
Los Angeles or San Francisco Umpires, the Umpire shall be selected in rotation,  
provided that if the appropriate Umpire has no available dates for hearing the case within  
the requisite period of time after the matter is referred to him or her for arbitration, the  
matter shall be referred to the next Umpire in rotation who has such available dates. The  
award of the Impartial Umpire shall be rendered at the earliest possible time and in any  
event no later than twenty-four (24) hours after the hearing has been closed. The  
Impartial Umpire need not render an opinion with the award. The Impartial Umpire  
shall be empowered under this procedure to order injunctive relief or such other remedy  
as he or she deems appropriate if the Umpire finds there has been or will be a violation  
of one of the provisions specified at the beginning of this Section or of an‘arbitration  
award. It is the specific intent of this Section 20.10 to permit arbitration proceedings  
conceming proposed changes in operations to commence prior to the making of such  
proposed changes, but not to delay the making of such changes pending the outcome of  
any such proceedings.  
63  
   
tio  
Section 20.11  
At the election of either party, a transcript of any arbitration may be ordered,  
which shal! be the official transcript of the hearing, a copy of which shall be given to the  
arbitrator. In the event the party not ordering the transcript wishes to review any copy of  
the transcript for any purpose, the fees for such transcript shall be shared equally  
between the parties. At the election of cither party, bniefs and reply briefs shall be part  
of the record. Except as provided in Section 20,10, a final decisign or award of the  
Impartial Umpire or arbitrator shall be made within thirty (30) days after the close of the  
hearing. Such decision shall be binding on both parties and them will promptly  
comply. Each party will bear its own expense incurred in the conduct of arbitration  
proceedings but will share equally the expense of the [mpartial Umpire or arbitrator,  
except as provided in the first sentence of Section 20.7 of this Agreement.  
Section 20,12  
In no event shall the Impartial Umpire or arbitrator modify or amend the  
provisions of this Agrecment, nor, except as permitted m the second to the last sentence  
of Section 20,9, shall the same question or issue be the subject of arbitration more than  
once, excepi upon a showing of new evidence, change of condition or circumstances,  
The Impantial Umpire shall have no authority to issue any award or relief, monetary or  
otherwise, retroactive to a date more than eighteen (18} months prior to the date when  
the hearing was opened and the presentation of evidence before the Impartial Umpire  
commenced.  
The Impartial Umpire or arbitrator shall have the right in instances where  
violations of the contract are found to have occurred to impose reasonable liquidated  
damages only where actual economic loss has been proven, but tt 1s impossible to  
calculate the amount of actual economic loss to reasonable certainty. In such instances,  
the Impartial Umpire’s finding of liquidated damages must bear a very close relationship  
to the amount of the economic loss asserted and established. The Impartial Umpire shall  
have no authority to award any damages or other relief for alleged emotional or mental  
injury or distress, or for any other alleged non-economic loss; nor shall any [mpartial  
Umpire have any authority to award any kind of damages other than economic damages,  
including but not limited to punitive damage, except with respect to contract violations  
ansing under Article V of the Master Agreement in which case the arbitrator may also  
award punitive damages.”  
The award in AH 9/-S@ is null and void.  
(See Sideletter DQ.)  
   
### ARTICLE XXI  
### SAFETY COMMITTEE  
Section 21.1  
The Company agrees to the appointment of a NABET-CWA-representative and  
alternate on existing Safety Committees where established and to the creation of Safety  
Committees with a NABET-CWA-representative and alternate to be appointed thereto at  
cach office of the Company where no Safety Committee currently exists. Meetings will  
be held every other month at each office, unless the exigencies of the situation require a  
meeting of the Safety Committee to take place at other times.  
Section 21.2  
In the event the Union wishes to retain safety consultants to advise it on matters  
of occupational health and safety, the Company agrees to designate a representative to  
meet with such consultants at times and places mutually agreed upon by the Company  
gnd the Union. Such consultants may also, at the Union's request and upon reasonable  
prior notice to the Company, attend meetings of the Safety Committees provided for in  
Section 21.1 above.  
Section 21.3  
During the course of their 1993 negotiations, the parties discussed the matter of  
the safety of employees assigned to ENG pickups in the field. The parties fully  
recognize that news gathering assignments in the field by their very nature have  
historically presented safety issues not normally present in other aspects of the  
broadcasting industry. In the course of these discussions, the parties recognized that the  
safety of ENG personnel assigned to these pickups has been and continues to be a matter  
of prime importance.  
The parties acknowledge that an ENG field assignment is “hazardous” only if its  
performance (or continued performance) necessarily entails an immediate and significant  
risk of a serious physical! injury to the employee(s) assigned. Moreover, it is expressly  
understood and agreed that while the right of assignment belongs exclusively with the  
Company, as in the past an employee(s) at the pickup location of a news story who has  
assessed the particular situation need not commence a hazardous assignment or, if the  
assignment has already begun but has become hazardous, may withdraw to a position of  
safety at or near the site of the pickup. In either case, such employee shall use his or her  
best efforts to fulfill the assignment.  
65  
   
Section 21.3 Cont'd  
As the parties have recognized in the past, any decision not to begin or continue  
to perform a hazardous assignment must be made in good faith, be reasonable under al!  
of the circumstances, and whenever possible with prior consultation with an appropriate  
assignment editor or management personnel, If, under the circumstances, such pnor  
consultation is not possible, the decision not to begin or continue to perform a hazardous  
assignment must be communicated as soon as possible to the assignment  
editor or management personne}. In the event of any conflict between an employee’s  
decision and an order to perform given by an assignment editor or a manager, the  
employee(s) shall not be regarded as insubordinate provided that his or her decision is in  
accordance with the foregoing provisions. °  
In view of this, the panies are in agreement that at each Company operating unit  
where ENG personnel are employed, a special committee, consisting of representative  
employees from the ENG unit and local management whose presence may be conducive  
to a discussion of safety shali periodically mect as mutually agreed upon to discuss  
issues of safety relating ta ENG field assignments. At each Company television station  
these meetings shall be attended by the News Director and other senior station officials.  
At each network ENG location the Network News Bureau Chief and a senior BO&E  
official, along with other appropriate management officials will attend such meeting(s).  
An agreed upon number of ENG ficld personnel shail attend such meetings as  
operational requirements permit in order to provide information or make suggestions on  
the basis of their own news gathering experience, These meetings shall be held no less  
than once every six (6} months.  
### ARTICLE XXll  
### INSURANCE  
Section 22.1  
The Company will provide employees, other than employees hired for fixed  
periods of ninety (90) days or less, at each location, the Company’s Employee Life  
Insurance Plan. [n no event will part-time and per diem be eligible for  
such Plan.  
(See Sideletter EF.)  
   
Section 22.2  
(a) The Company will permit employees, other than employees hired for fixed  
periods of ninety (90) days or less, and their eligible dependents, at cach location,  
10 participate in the Company’s Medical Plan (presently called the Signature  
Pian) applicable to the employees of the Company generally. In no event wil!  
part-time and per diem employces be eligible for such Plan.  
ee  
(See Sideletter EF)  
(b) = [n addition, the Company will provide accidental death, dismemberment and  
permanent total disability coverage under its Travel Accident Insurance Policy to  
employees while traveling on Company business in the pnncipal sum of:  
(i) five (5) times the employee’s base annual salary, with a maximum  
benefit of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00}; or  
(i) One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00), whichever is the  
greater, or where the employee flies by helicopter at the Company’s  
request, in the principal sum of Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars  
($350,000.00).  
(Sce Sideletter AX.)  
Section 22.3  
The Union will be notified of any changes, which affect the employees of ABC  
gencrally, made during the term of this Agreement in any of the Programs specified in  
this Article. Such changes will automatically be made applicable to the employees  
covered by this Agreement under the same conditions as apply to the employees of the  
Company generally.  
(See Sideletter EF.)  
Section 22.4  
If, after April 1, 1989, an employce retires at age fifty-five (55) or older under  
the retirement plan applicable to NAB ET-CWA-represented employees, he or she will  
continue coverage under the Company's Medical Plan (presently called the Signature  
Plan) for the employee and the employee's eligible dependents under the same conditions  
as would apply to such retiree if he or she were unrepresented.  
67  
   
Section 22 4 Cont'd  
In addition, employees who have not retired as of March 31, 1989, but who have  
reached age fifty-five (55} and have attained ten (10} years of Company service by such  
date shall, upon their retirement, be entitled to coverage under the ABC Comprehensive  
Medical Expense Pian in effect on March 31, 1989 (with Medicare offset} in lieu of  
coverage under the terms of the Company’s Medical Plan in effect at the time of their  
retirement under the same conditions as if he or she were unrepresented.  
Notwithstanding the above, employees who have retired as of March 31, 1989  
under the retirement plan applicable to NABET-CWA-represented‘tmployees shall  
continue to receive coverage pursuant to the provisions of the predecessor Section 22.4  
recited in the 1985-1989 ABC Master Agreement.  
(See Sidetetier EX.)  
Section 22.5  
The Company will make available to reguiar employees covered by the Master  
Agreement the right to participate in the Company’s Long Term Disability Income Plan  
(or, at the Company's option, a plan which provides the same benefits and has the same  
rates of employee contribution as the Company’s Long Term Disability Income Plan).  
(See Sideietter EF.)  
Section 22.6  
Regular employees will be permitted to participate in the Signature Health Care  
and Dependent Care Spending Account Plans under the same conditions as apply to the  
employees of the Company generally.  
(See Sideletter EF.)  
Section 22.7  
(Deleted.]  
Section 22.8  
  
638  
clion  
### ARTICLE XXIII  
### RETIREMENT PLAN  
Section 23.1  
The Company and the Union hereby mutually agree that the jointly negotiated  
and administered retirement plan existing under the 1997-2003 Master Agreement shall  
continue in effect as a,plan qualified by the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with  
the following provisions:  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
The Company and the Union agree that the Agreement and Declaration of Trust  
for the ABC-NABET Retirement Trust Fund (“Trust Agreement”) shall be  
amended in accordance with the amendment set forth in Sideletter GQ, paragraph  
1, and the Pension Plan Text of the ABC-NABET Retirement Trust Plan (“Plan’’)  
shall simultaneously be amended in accordance with the amendment set forth in  
paragraph If thereof. The parties shall take all necessary steps to require their  
respective Trustees to adopt such amendments.  
As of the effective date of Sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Plan amendment referenced  
in subsection {a} above {inclusive of any legal notice period), (January 1, 2004),  
ihe Company shall contribute five and one-half percent (5.5%) (increased from  
three percent (3%)) of the base weekly pay of regular employees covered by this  
Agreement, as well as employees on whose behalf contributions must be made  
pursuant to the provisions of Sapulation 19, to the ABC-NABET Retirement  
Trust Fund (the “Trust Fund”), which will be jomtly administered by the  
Company and the Union. Notwithstanding anything in this subsection (b) to the  
contrary, the Company shall not be required to make a contribution to the Trust  
Fund in any year in excess of the amount deductible under the Internal Revenue  
Code,  
As of the effective date of the amendments described in subsection {a} above,  
(September 26, 2004), except with respect those amendments, the Trustees  
shall not have the authonty to adopt any amendment to the Pisn or Trust  
Agreement that: (i) directly or indirectly affects the level of benefits paid to  
participants or beneficiaries of the Plan (including, without limitation,  
amendments related to the level or subsidization of early retirement or  
disability benefits, eligibility for normal or early retirement or disability  
benefits, the benefit accrual formula, percentage of compensation used to  
calculate benefit accruals, the definition of compensation or pay used to  
calculate benefit accruals, the addition or modification of benefit changes  
{ad hoc or otherwise) for retirees and beneficiaries, and the addition or  
69  
Section 23.1 (c) Cont'd  
modification of any Plan feature that could increase projected Retirement Plan  
benefit costs}; or grants to the Trustees any authority that is inconsistent with  
(i) of this subsection. The Trustees shal] have responsibility for managing the  
Fund’s investments, paying benefits and all administrative functions.  
(d) The parties hereby agree that they shall amend the Plan in accordance with and  
subject to the conditions set forth in Sideletter GQ, paragraph III] (Mandatory  
Adjustment to Pension Formula). Any disputes concerning: application of the  
formula set forth therein shall be resolved in accordance with the dispute  
resolution procedure set forth in Sideletter GQ, paragraph IV.  
(e) As of the effective date of the amendments described in subsection {a) above,  
(September 26, 2004), in addition to the amendment set forth in (d) above, the  
Company and the Union shall have the power to agree to amend the Trust  
Agreement and/or the Plan as to any matter not within the purview of the  
Trustees pursuant to subsection (c) hereof by adopting a joint resolution setting  
forth such amendment.  
Section 23.2  
Within one (1) year of the signing of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement, the  
Company will provide, by direct mail, each NABET-CWA-represented employee is  
eligible for coverage under the Plans and has not already received such materials, a  
detailed written explanation of all insurance, disability and retirement plans available to  
NABET-CWA-tepresented personnel under Articles XXIf and XXIIE of this Agreement.  
A booklet that is made available to the employees of ABC generally will satisfy the  
requirements of this Section.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### ON-CAMERA APPEARANCES  
Section 24.]  
Planned on-camera appearances of employees, except panoramic shots, incidental  
shots of employees in the audience area, or in a newsroom, appearances for the purpose  
of greeting or congratulations and appearances in bumpers, news stories in which such  
employees are subjects and/or interviewees, or in openings or closes, shall be paid for at  
the applicable rate specified below. In no event shall pay be required for accidental  
pickups.  
70  
ecti t'd  
5 minutes or less $ 37.00  
over 5 to 15 mins. 73.00  
over 15 to 30 mins. 112.00  
over 30 to 45 mins, 127.00  
over 45 to 60 mins, 142.00  
over 60 to 90 mins. 173.00  
over 90 to 120 mins. 204.00  
Promo ~ Unlimited use 60.00  
itv  
It is agreed that if the rates specified in Paragraph 8 of the 2001 AFTRA Code  
of Fair Practice for Network Television Broadcasting are increased as the result of  
AFTRA-Company negotiations during the term of this Agreement, such increased rates  
shall be effective in lieu of the foregoing rates as of the same date they become effective  
for AFTRA.  
At the network, only a technical manager, or at the stations, only a management  
supervisor for engineering employees, or the appropnate management supervisor for  
employees in other departments, has the authority to make a commitment to any  
employee to pay for an on-Camera appearance and in the absence of such a commitment  
employees shall not be entitled to compensation under this Article.  
Section 24.2  
Planned on-camera appearances of employees for which pay is required  
under the terms of Section 24.1 above shall not be made without the prior consent of the  
employees involved.  
Section 24,3  
In any office of the Company where there is an AFTRA Code of Fair Practice  
for Local Television Programs, the “extra” rates in that Code shall apply, in tiew of those  
set forth in Section 24.1, to any on-camera appearance in a local television program.  
(See Sideletter FM.)  
Section 24.4  
The Union agrees that the Company may request a waiver of the provisions of  
Article XXIV at the Television Stations which waiver will not be  
unreasonably withheld.  
7]  
   
Section 25.1  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### LOCAL QUARTERLY MEETINGS  
Section 2§.1  
The Company and the Union shall meet quarterly at each location for the purpose  
of information, review and resolution of problems relating to existing and anticipated  
significant technological developments, major new methods of operation and matters  
relating to individual employee situations. The Company representatives at such meeting  
shall consist of the chief operating head and the Labor Relations Department head at the  
location involved, and the Union representatives shall consist of the highest ranking  
Local Union officer with the Company and one other designee of the Local Union.  
At each such meeting the Company officials will inform the Local Union of  
anticipated changes in equipment and methods of operation of which they are aware. The  
Union representatives will be provided with access to available background information  
relating thereto, and will treat such information on a confidential basis, If the Union,  
afler receipt of information concerning the anticipated developments at the quarterly  
meeting, wishes to review with the Company its proposed changes, the parties shali  
reconvene at the earliest possible time after such meeting to take up the matter.  
In addition, the quarterly meeting shall take up those issues relating to individual  
employee problems which either party believes could be useful. It is the intent of this  
procedure that the discussion of such problems be conducted on a non-adversary  
basis, and in a good faith attempt to resolve hardship situations. Such issues may or may  
not be matters which have been the subject of specific grievances. If the parties are  
unable to reach a satisfactory resolution of these individual problems, they shall be  
reconsidered at the next quarterly meeting, provided that those issues which have been  
the subject of specific grievances may continue to be processed through the  
and arbitration procedure.  
The quarterly meetings shall take place in February, May, August and November  
unless the parties mutually agree to an alternate schedule.  
72  
### ARTICLE XXV1  
### SICK LEAVE  
Section 26.1  
(a) In order to be eligible for sick leave with pay, an must, as heretofore,  
furnish satisfactory evidence of disability. In all cases of sick leave involving  
absence of one (1) week or more, a statement or certificate setting  
forth the nature and period of disability must be furnished.  
  
(See Sideletter FV)  
(b) A regular employee employed other than in the Los Angeles and San Francisco  
offices shall be eligible for sick leave with pay in each calendar year m  
accordance with the following schedule:  
Length Of Service At Beginning Of Leave  
More Up To Maxtmnum Sick Leave  
0 & months 2 wks, {10 work days)  
6 months 2 years 4 wks. (20 work days)  
2 years 3 years 6 wks. (30 work days)  
3 years 4 years 8 wks, (40 work days)  
4 years 5 years 10 wks. (50 work days}  
5 years 10 years 12 wks. (60 work days}  
10 years and over 13 wks, (65 work days)  
{c} Employees in the Los Angeles and San Francisco offices of the Company  
shall be eligible for paid sick leave or paid short term disability Jeave as  
follows:  
(1) Paid Sick Leave  
Employees in the Los Angeles and San Francisco offices of the Company  
shall be eligible for ten (10} days of paid sick leave per calendar year.  
Employees who commence their employment after January 1 of a given  
calendar year will be eligible for a pro-rata allotment of paid sick leave.  
Unused sick leave does not carry over into a subsequent year. Payment  
in lieu of unused sick leave is not permitted. After the fifth (Sth)  
consecutive day of sick leave, an employee will be eligible for further  
paid teave due to illness only as short term disability leave in accordance  
with the schedule set forth in (¢) 2, below,  
73  
(d)  
   
(2) Short Term Disability Leave  
An employee m the Los Angeles or San Francisco offices of the  
Company shall be eligible for short term disability in accordance with  
the following scheduk:  
Length of Service At Beginning Of Short Term Disability Leave  
44  
ore Than Up To Maximum Sick Leave  
‘2  
0 2 wks. (10 work days)  
6 months 4 wks, (20 work days  
2 years 3 years 6 wks. (30 work days)  
3 years 4years 8 wks. (40 work days)  
4 years Syears 10 wks. (50 work days)  
5 years 10 years !2 wks. (60 work days)  
10 years and over 13 wks. (65 work days)  
(3) Relationship Between Sick Leave and Short Term  
Disability }  
An employce’s use of paid sick leave under this Section (c) 1. shall  
Tun concurrently with any paid short term disability leave to which an  
employee is entitled under Section (c} 2., but only for the first five (5)  
consecutive days an employce is out of work. After the fifth (Sth)  
consecutive day of sick leave, any subsequent consecutive days will be  
counted only as Short Term Disability, For example, if an employee  
who is eligible for ten (10) paid sick days under Section (c) 1. is absent  
due to illness for seven {7) consecutive work days, the first five (5)  
consecutive days of that leave would count concurrently as paid sick  
leave under Section (¢) 1. and as Short Term Disability leave under  
Section (c} 2., but the last two (2) consecutive days would count only  
as Short Term Disability Leave under Section (c) 2. This employee  
would then be eligible for five (5) days of paid sick days remaining  
for use in that calendar year.  
If, after an employee exhausts his or her maximum sick leave with pay as outlined in  
(b), above, [or for employees in the Los Angeles and San Francisco offices of the  
Company, short term disability leave as provided in (c) 2.], the disability  
continues, he or she will be eligible to receive for any further period of disability, but  
not continuing past six {6) months from the start of the disability, payments at fifty  
percent (50%) of the employee’s salary rate less any amount payable under any state  
disability benefit program for the applicable period.  
74  
(e)  
(f}  
(g)  
(h)  
(i)  
   
Section 26,1  
If an employee exhausts his or her paid sick leave entitlements under both  
Paragraphs (b) and (d) (or for employees in the Los Angeles and San Francisco  
offices of the Company, short term disability leave in paragraph (c) 2 and (d))  
and then returns to work, the employee may again be eligible for compensation  
under Paragraph (d) if he or she is disabled for a penod of five (5) work days;  
provided, however, that if such subsequent absence is relatcd to the prior  
disability, the employee must have returned to work for a period of six (6) months  
before he or she is again eligible for compensation under Paragraph (d).  
2  
Eligibility for sick leave with pay under paragraph (b) above, [or short term  
disability leave in Los Angeles and San Francisco under (c) (2), above) will be  
renewed as of January Ist each year provided the employee has been actively at  
work or has been on sick leave [or short term disability leave in the Los Angeles  
and San Francisco offices under(c) (2), above] with full pay for the final month  
of the preceding year and he or she has returned to active duty in the subsequent  
year. Otherwise, an employee absent without pay or receiving  
pursuant to Paragraph (d) at the end of the calendar year will not qualify for  
renewed paid sick leave under paragraph (b}, ({c) (2) in Los Angeles and San  
Francisco] or (d) until he or she has returned to active duty for a period of six (6}  
months.  
No employee shail be entitled to any payments under this Article for any period  
for which he or she cannot present satisfactory evidence of disability.  
(See Sideletter FV.)  
The maximum continuous duration of approved sick leave will be two (2) years,  
measured from the first () st) day the employee is absent fram work.  
The provisions hereof express the conditions under which employees will receive  
payment for periods of genuine disability due to illness, The Company's general  
policy with respect to illness absences wil! continue to have application to the  
extent that that policy is not inconsistent with the express terms hereof,  
(See Sideletter FV.)  
ti il  
### ARTICLE XXVII  
### TUITION CONTRIBUTION  
Section 27,1  
The Company will permit all eligible regular full-time employees to participate in  
the Walt Disney Company and Affiliated Companies Educational Reimbursement Plan  
under the terms and conditions of the Program prevailing during the period of the  
employee's participation. However, no employee will be permitted to participate in the  
Plan during any period in which the employee is on a leave of absence, whether paid or  
unpaid.  
### ARTICLE  
### SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN  
Section 28.1  
All eligible regular full-time employees covered hereunder shall have the nght to  
participate in the Company’s Savings and Investment Plan, subject to the terms and  
conditions of the Plan prevailing during the period of the  
participation.  
(See Sideletter EF.)  
### ARTICLE XXIX  
### DENTAL EXPENSE INSURANCE PROGRAM  
Section 29.1  
All eligible regular full-time employees covered hereunder shall have the right to  
participate in the Company's Dental Plan {presently called the SIGNATURE Plan),  
subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan prevailing during the period of the  
employee's panicipation.  
(See Sideletter EF.)  
76  
   
### ARTICLE XXX  
### TERM OF AGREEMENT  
Section 30.1  
Basic minimum wage scales in effect on March 3t, 2003 in all Agreements  
herein, and overtime based thereon, shall continue and remain in effect, except as  
otherwise herein provided, Effective September 27, 2004, each covered employee in  
each unit shall receivéth payment equal to the difference between the amount of  
compensation such employee would have earned had an increase in the minimum wage  
scale of three percent (3%) occurred on April 1, 2003 and contiued through May 12,  
2003, and the amount such employee actually earned during that same periad. Such  
payment shall satisfy the retroactivity provision of the March 21, 2003 Agreement  
between the parties extending the terms of the 1997-2003 Master Agreement through  
May 12, 2003. Other moncy items, penalties, allowances, upgrades and changes in  
classifications and other provistons in all Agreements shall be effective September 27,  
2003 except as otherwise provided herein.  
Section 30.2  
Employees shall be paid every other week at twice the applicable weckly rates of  
pay set forth in the applicable agreements,  
When employees are paid, they will receive a statement(s) showing the amount  
paid for base wages, any applicable deductions, and separate amounts paid for the  
appropriate period for each other item of compensation,  
This Section relates only to the procedures involved in payment of compensation  
and no provision herein shall be deemed to establish or affect any substantive rights or  
obligations under this Agreement.  
Section 30.3  
This Agreement shall remain in effect unti] Midnight (New York Time), March  
31,2007. Upon written notice by cither party served at least sixty (60) days prior to  
Apnil |, 2007, both parties agree to commence negotiations no later than March 18, 2007  
for extension or modification of this Agreement for a period to commence Apmil I, 2007,  
77?  
   
### INDIVIDUAE ARTICLES  
### A. ENGINEERING AGREEMENT  
### ARTICLE A-]  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section Al.1  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement applies to at) the technical  
employees of the Company wherever located, employed in the Engineering Department  
of the Company excluding the following: (1} Chief Engineer; (2} Director of  
Engineering Operations; (3) Administrative Assistant to Chief Engineer; (4)  
Administrative Assistant to Director of Operations; (5) Chief Facilities  
Engineer and Assistants, 1.e., audio, radio, television and development; (6) Chief  
Allocations Engineer and his or her assistant; (7) Architect and his or her assistant; (8)  
Model Shop Superintendent; (9} Construction Superintendents; (10) Technical Training  
Director, (11) Staff Engincer; (12) Engineering Managers; (13) Engineers in Charge of  
Owned and Operated Stations; (14) Operation Supervisors; (15) Television Operation  
Supervisors; (16) Engineer in Charge of Television; (17) any other persons in executive  
of administrative positions whose responsibilities are at least equal to those of any  
enumerated above; and (18) supervisory personnel who do not operate or maintain  
equipment except for the purpose of training an employee.  
Section  
[Deleted.]  
### ARTICLE A-fi  
### TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT AND JURISDICTION  
Section A2.1 - Technical Equipment  
Only employees under this Agreement shall operate, maintain and, to the extent  
heretofore, repair technical equipment, and technical equipment for the purposes of this  
Agreement includes those facilities of the Enginecring Department of the Company used  
in transmitting, converting and/or conducting audio, video and/or radio frequencies for  
use in broadcast, closed circuit broadcast, rebroadcast, audition, rehearsal, recording,  
and/or “on-the-air” playback. The phrase “on-the-air’ playback does not apply in the  
Chicago studios. The operation of audio tape recording and reproducing equipment in  
Chicago will continue as it is now.  
(See Stipulation (7).}  
78  
   
Section A2.2 ~ Jurisdiction  
(a)  
(b)  
In addition to the jurisdiction granted in Section A2.1 it is agreed that the  
jurisdiction of the Union is expressly applicable to all electronic video equipment  
(including a combination electronic and motion picture or “slave” camera) used  
either in connection with live broadcasting or in connection with electronic video  
recording. lt shall include all related electronic, mechanical and optical  
equipment used operationally for all recording, rerecording, processing,  
duplicating, éditing, cutting, splicing and playback, in connection with such video  
recordings provided, however, that this Paragraph shall not apply to film editorial  
and/or fitm cutting personnel employed by the Company in Los Angeles,  
California.  
Electronic character generators (e.g., Vidifont, Videograph, Chyron) and  
keyboard or other input devices associated therewith and memory and storage  
devices used solely therewith are technical equipment under this Agreement when  
used for broadcast, closed circuit broadcast, rebroadcast, audition, rehearsal,  
recording and/or “on-the-air” playback and, when used for such purposes, such  
devices shall be operated, maintained, and, to the extent heretofore, installed by  
employees hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than employees  
covered by this Agreement  
(i) may operate keyboard or other input devices in non-technical areas for  
the purpose of visually determining the format, layout, size of font or  
design of material, provided that any decisions reached on such matters  
by such other persons will be presented to employees covered by this  
Agreement for entry into the memory or storage of the device or for  
use live, provided further that such other persons may enter material  
into the memory or storage of the device on a temporary basis for the  
purpose of making those determinations described above, and provided  
further that a tape, cassette or similar memory or storage medium  
prepared by such other persons may be utilized only for the purpose of  
conveying information to the NABET-CWA-represented employee who  
will make entry into the memory, or storage, or to others for the  
purpose of making the determinations described above, but such tape,  
cassette or similar memory or storage medium will in no case be used  
for such entry or for use directly to air or for any other purpose; or  
79  
Section A2.2 (b) {i  
(ii)  
(iti)  
may operate keyboard or other input devices for the purpose of  
creating, composing or producing sophisticated, complicated or  
advanced graphic or scenic displays or effects, which require operation  
by a person with special knowledge of the subject matter and where the  
proper artistic effect requires the operation of the keyboard or other  
input device by such person and such person has been responsible for  
the creation of a similar type of product or effect by other than  
electronic means; or  
may operate keyboards or similar devices to visually reca]] material  
stored in the memory or storage of the device or an associated  
computer for purposes of information, provided that such operation  
takes place in a non-technical area.  
For the purpose of A2.2(b)(iii) the floor of a studio shall be deemed a  
“non-technical area”; however, except for election returns, AZ.2(b)(iii)  
shall be applicable to the floor of a studio only for purposes of  
information to the person operating the keyboard or similar device.  
Where inputs to the memory or storage are received from an outside non-  
Company information-gathering source (e.g., election returns), nothing  
herein will be deemed to require inputs at such source to be entered by  
employees covered by this Agreement. In addition, any information  
which has been collected, input or processed in the memory of any  
computer by any person not covered by the Master Agreement may be  
transferred, directly or indirectly, to any technical equipment.  
If there are any instances in which the foregoing paragraph or the last  
paragraph of this Section A2.2(b) creates a severe operational problem  
for the Company resulting in unanticipated hardships, the matter will  
be discussed with the Union and, if no satisfactory arrangement is  
made, the method of handling the matter will be subject to arbitration.  
The Company wilt provide opportunities for employees to improve  
their skills in the use of such devices in connection with the production  
of program material. This will include but will not be limited to on-  
the-job training and outside sources of instruction.  
The provisions of this Section A2.2(b) shall be applicable to the  
operation of keyboard or other input devices when such devices are  
used to feed information into, or extract information from, a memory  
or storage device not covered by the first sentence of this Section  
80  
(c)  
   
Section A2.2 Cont'd  
A2.2(b) if, but only if, such information is to be fed to an electronic  
character generator for the purposes set forth in such sentence;  
otherwise this Section A2,2(b) shall have no application to such  
memory or storage devices or to such keyboard or other input devices.  
(iv) may load and unload disc-packs or any other storage medium used in  
connection with the technical equipment described in this Section  
A2.2(b).  
jt, (See Sideletter AY and Section A2.2(f).)  
Electronic freehand display devices, or sophisticated electronic graphic display  
devices (e.g., Telestrator, Chyron, electronic pointers, Scanimate), as well as  
single combination devices incorporating the features of both character  
generators and such display devices, and input devices (including keyboard  
devices) associated therewith, and memory and storage devices used solely  
therewith, are technical equipment under this Agreement when used for  
broadcast, closed circuit broadcast, rebroadcast, audition, rehearsal, recording  
and/or “on-the-air” playback, and, when used for such purposes, such devices  
shall be operated, maintained, and, to the extent heretofore, installed by  
employees hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than employees  
covered by this Agreement may operate the input device or devices {¢.g., the  
associated probe which is required to produce the effect the device is capable of  
producing) under the fotlowing conditions:  
(1) an individual performing on the air, live or during a recording for  
broadcast or an rehearsal thereof, may operate the input  
device and operating controls; and  
(2) an individual creating, composing or producing graphic or scenic  
displays or effects for storage may operate any associated input device  
or devices, operating controls, and any technical equipment tocated in  
the work areas to which such individual(s) are normally assigned,  
including but not limited to cameras and videotape machines directly  
related to such creation, composition or production, and may load and  
unload disc-packs or any other storage medium used in connection with  
the technical equipment described in this Section A2,2(c).  
It is understood that individuals of the type described herein may utilize such  
input devices to recall previously stored program material solely for purposes  
of evaluation, alteration, recomposition, updating or re-creation provided  
such recall operation is performed in a studio or in the work area to which  
individuals of this type are normally assigned. In the event a single  
8]  
(d)  
   
combination device incorporating the features of both electronic character  
generators and electronic freehand display devices or sophisticated electronic  
graphic display devices is utilized and only the character generator portion of  
such device is used to produce, compose or create the entire display or effect, the  
provisions of Section A2.2(b) above shall apply.  
Except for those limited exceptions set forth above or to visually recall for  
purposes of information, provided that such recall operation takes piace in a non-  
technical area, the Company recognizes that the recall of previously stored  
program material shall be within the junsdiction of the Union and under no other  
circumstances shal] other than an engincering employee any previously  
stored program material.  
(The two immediutely preceding paragraphs shail not apply to the  
Companys San Francisco and Los Angeles offices. However, the  
retention of such paragraphs in the ather Offices of the Compaay shall  
not confer any new rights that did not otherwise exist prior to April f,  
1993, nor shall it diminish whatever rights either party may have had  
prior to such date. The Awards in AS 84-26 and 84-4? are null and void.)  
The Company will provide opportunities for employees to improve their skills in  
the use of such devices in connection with the production of program material.  
This will include but will nat be limited to on-the-job training and outside  
sources of instruction.  
The provisions of this Section A2.2(c) shall be applicable to the operation of  
keyboard or other input devices when such devices are used to feed information  
into, or extract information from, a memory or storage device not covered by the  
first sentence of this Section A2.2(c)} if, but only if, such information is to be fed  
10 an electronic freehand disptay device or sophisticated electronic graphic  
display device for the purposes set forth in such sentence; otherwise this Section  
A2.,2(¢) shall have no application to such memory or storage devices or to such  
keyboard or other input devices.  
(See Sideletter AY and Section A2.2(f).)  
A process control computer used to control the operation of technical  
equipment, as defined in Section A2.1 of the Engineering Agreement, shall  
fal] within such definition of technical equipment. To the extent that such  
work has not been performed by employees covered by the Engineering  
Agreement, persons not covered by the Engineering may prepare  
82  
Secon A2.2{d) Cont'd  
information and/or instructions for insertion into such a computer. Subject to the  
provisions of Stipulation (16), input devices that are used to insert information  
and/or instructions into such a computer and equipment used to override such  
computer will be operated by employees covered by the Engineering Agreement.  
Persons not covered by the Engineering Agreement may extract information from  
such computers by using devices located and operated in other than technical  
areas.  
Ti  
A Technical Director will be assigned to any process contro] computer that is  
controlling any operation to which a Technical Director would  
otherwise be assigned.  
Nothing herein shail preclude “experts in computer programming” from  
operating input devices and computer controls located in technical areas for  
purposes of reprogramming the computer or othemvise adjusting the logic of the  
system,  
An “expert in computer programming” as the term is used above, shall include:  
(i) experts who are Company personnel (whose names have been furnished in  
advance to the Union}; and (ii) experts who are not Company personnel.  
Devices (including computer systems) which are not within the jurisdiction of the  
Engineering Agreement will not be brought into such jurisdiction simply because  
of the fact that such devices are used to feed information and/or instructions into  
and/or extract information from a process control computer under circumstances  
described in this Section A2.2(d).  
The provisions of this Section and Stipulation {16) and practices which may  
develop thereunder shall have no precedential or prejudicial effect on situations  
which do not involve the utilization of a process control computer for the  
purposes set forth in the first Paragraph of this Section nor shall the inclusion of  
any provision herein be construed as implying that it sets forth rights or  
obligations which either party does not otherwise have under the Master  
Agreement.  
(See Stipulation (16).)  
$3  
   
nection A2.2f¢)  
(¢) When NABET-CWA-represented engineering employees are assigned using  
electronic cameras capable of being hand-held and associated equipment, the  
following shall be applicable:  
I. Staffing as to the number of employees will be as required.  
2, The first {1st} employee assigned will be a Technical Director (effective  
August 9, 2003 referenced as ENG-EFP Camera Operator or ENG-EFP  
Camera Operator/Editor} whenever such a camera (a) is combined with  
and feeds a portable video tape recorder, or {b) is feeding to a studio or  
remote contro] point but such employee is independently responsible  
for the camera unit and associated equipment and js not under the  
direct supervision of a Technical Director at such studio or remote  
control point. !f there are two (2) or more employees assigned to a  
camera unit and (a) or (b} above is applicable, then the second (2nd)  
employee assigned shall be a Group §.  
{See Sideletter AG.)  
3. In cases where a Technicul Director (effective August 9, 2003  
referenced as ENG-EFP Camera Operator ar ENG-EFP Camera  
Operator/Editor} must be assigned in accordance with the provisions of  
Paragraph 2(a} or (b) or this Section A2.2{¢):  
{i) On news pickups in the fteld other Company personnel may  
communicate with engineering employees. The Company  
shall designate one (1) person on location who shall have  
ultimate authority for communicating programming  
insiructions to engineering personnel, if such instructions are  
not being communicated from a studio or other contro! point.  
{ii) News material gathered hereunder, live or taped, may be  
transmitted to a Company office for broadcast or taping  
through any available facility. Such transmittal will not be  
performed by a non-NABET-CWA ABC employee.  
(tii) Normally, news material gathered hereunder will be  
edited for use by the Company pursuant to the applicable  
provisions of the Master Agreement. In situations where  
the time required to comply with said provisions  
might reasonably be expected to delay the broadcasting  
$4  
   
Section A2.2(e)3Gii) Cont’  
of such materia] to the public, then such material may be edited at any  
available facility. Such editing will not be performed by a non-  
NABET-CWA ABC employee.  
(i)  
Md  
eH  
ti  
{ii}  
(iii)  
When the Company intends to cover a news story with  
electronic cameras capable of being hand-held, it may pool  
whatever lighting work is necessary for such coverage with  
any news and other information gathering compan(ies) or  
organization(s), The companies will rotate such pool lighting  
assignments on a basis that will] assure that ABC’s  
engineering employees will handle a fair proportion of the  
work involved in such assignments. When ABC is to supply  
the lighting under such arrangement, NABET-CWA-  
represented engineering employees will be assigned to  
perform such work.  
Similarly, when two (2) or three (3) of the four (4) companies  
intend to cover a news story and the third (3rd) or fourth  
(4th) such company 1s either not covering that news story at  
all, or is covering it with a film crew, the other two (2) or  
three (3) companies may pool whatever lighting work is  
necessary for such coverage. The companies participating in  
such pool lighting assignments wilt rotate the assignments on  
a basis that will assure that ABC engineering employees will  
handle a fair proportion of the work involved in such  
assignments. When ABC is to supply the lighting under such  
arrangement, NABET-C WA-represented engineering  
employees will be assigned to perform such work.  
The engineering employees of the company performing the  
pooled lighting assignment hereunder shall, upon request,  
perform for any of the other companies such additional or  
modified lighting work (including relocating and refocusing  
of lights) as may be required by them for their special use  
(e.g., a “standupper” that takes place before, during or after  
the companies’ general coverage of the story itself) but may  
perform such additional or modified lighting for such other  
companies only if such additional or modified lighting takes  
place in the same general area as the pooled lighting itself.  
Where the pooled lighting itself ts in a room, the term  
“general area” shall include the same room or an immediately  
adjacent area.  
85  
(iv)  
(v)  
(vi)  
{vii}  
In situations when it is ABC's turn to provide pool lighting, if  
the Company should assign an engineer(s) specifically to the  
remote location in advance of the arrival of its crew in order  
10 be responsible for the necessary pool lighting work, the  
classification of one (1) such engineer shall be a Group 7.  
Except as provided for in the preceding sentence, the parties  
recognize that lighting for the poo) can be assigned to the  
engineering employees assigned to the crew in accordance  
with this Section A2.2(e).  
In addition to the foregoing, if two (2) or more of the  
companies are covering a Presidential trip with equipment of  
the type covered by this Section A2.2(¢), within the  
Continental United States (but outside Washington, D.C., or  
its immediate vicinity), sach companies may similarly pool  
whatever lighting work is necessary. The companies will  
rotate these Presidential trip assignments where lighting is  
pooled on a basis that will assure that ABC's engineering  
employees will handle a fair proportion of such overall  
Presidential trips. The company which has the pool  
responsibility under the terms of this Subparagraph will  
assign an additional engineering employee to the crew(s) to  
perform whatever pool or unilateral lighting work may be  
required by the pool participants as well as other work that  
may be required to assist the other crew members, such as  
moving or transporting equipment. It is understood that on  
Presidential trips, some lighting functions may be performed  
by non-Company personnel in connection with “lighting the  
President’, as heretofore.  
The foregoing Subparagraphs are only applicable to pickups  
of the type described in Subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (v) where  
camera coverage is handled on a unilateral basis by each  
company and it is therefore understood that technica] work  
unretated to lighting will not be affected by this Agreement.  
A record will be kept by the Company of pool assignments  
made hereunder and will show which companies’ employees  
were assigned to do the lighting work. The purpose is to  
assure an equitable distribution of the work performed  
hereunder. Such record shall be available to the Union.  
86  
(viit)  
(ix)  
(x}  
A>  
   
Section A2.2¢¢)4 (vill)  
This Paragraph 4 is limited to the situations described above.  
It is not intended to imply either the same or a different  
treatment in other situations. [t wil] not be precedent for any  
assignments of work on any pickups except those specified  
herein, and neither this Paragraph 4 nor any practice under it  
on any pickup covered by it, nor any practice preceding this  
Paragraph 4 if it had been in effect on that date, will be cited  
in any case covering a different type of pickup. Specifically,  
not fo be cited in any such case, is the use of the lighting  
“pool” arrangement hereunder for pooling only part of the  
technical work involved in a particular pickup.  
It is the intent of the foregoing provisions of this Section  
A2.2(e)4 that when two (2) or more of the four (4) companies  
are covering a news pickup with equipment of the type  
described herein, the lighting wil] be performed by the  
engineering employees of one (1} of such companies.  
However, it is recognized that situations may develop when  
organizations other than ABC, CBS, CNN and NBC are  
already present at the site of the pickup which may make it  
impracticable for any of the companies to set up lights  
although their gear and engineering personnel are available at  
the site. If such situations are not kept to a minimum, ABC  
and NABET-CWA will consult with each other in order to  
develop procedures, together with other companies and  
unions, if possible, to solve such problems  
On news pickups in the ficld, not covered by (i) through (ix)  
above, engineering employees assigned to the event in  
accordance with this Section A2.2(e) shall perform any  
lighting functions that are performed unless the lighting is to  
be performed in a location where another union has  
contracted “house jurisdictian” over lighting functions which  
does noi exclude electranic news pickups, Further, when  
lights have already been set up by other film or tape crews at  
a place where the news story is to be cavered, the pickup may  
be made without employees hereunder setting up lights if  
such other lights are sufficient for the pickup. {lt is the intent  
of the Company that the engineering crew and their gear will  
normally be assigned to the site in such a manner that they  
will have time and equipment to do the lighting just as  
though no one else had done it.)  
(See Sideletters AZ and BA.)  
87  
(i)  
(11)  
   
Nothing in the Master Agreement shall preclude the  
Company from:  
(a) utilizing stations to do pickups that are made outside a  
radius of two hundred (200) miles of each owned  
television office of the Company as set forth in Section  
11.4 of the Master Agreement, provided the station is  
within two hundred (200) miles of the pickup; and  
(b} utilizing affiliates to do pickups that are made  
outside a seventy-five (75) mile radius of each  
owned television office of the Company as set forth  
in Section 11.4 of the Master Agreement, but if  
such pickup is made within a pwo hundred (200)  
mile radius of such office, the affiliate must be  
within thirty-five (35) miles of the pickup; and  
(c) using talent to perform a live of  
material and a live “voice over” of materia] from  
the facility transmitting the material if the material  
originates outside a seventy-five (75) mile radius of  
any television office of the Campany and is being  
transmitted under Paragraph 3(1i) of Section  
A2.2(e}; and  
(d) accepting videotaped news material, cither within  
or without any of the radi above mentioned, from a  
“stringer”, i.e., a person not covered by this  
Agreement who sells news material to the  
Company but who is not an employee of ABC and  
has not been assigned nor hired by the Company to  
cover the news story.  
An ENG assignment is one in which employees are assigned  
to the gathering of news in the field using electronic cameras  
capable of being hand-held and associated equipment and the  
technical editing of such news in the field. -  
The following provisions shall apply to staff employees engaged at  
Company News Bureaus (other than the Washington News Bureau}  
within the Continental United States (except Alaska), for engineering  
functions associated with news material obtained by electronic cameras  
capable of being hand-held and associated equipment:  
88  
(i)  
(il)  
(iii)  
qu  
Section (i  
Such staff employees shal] be covered under the Master  
Agreement to the extent set forth below, and shall constitute a  
separate seniority group at cach such Bureau, subject to the  
provisions of Paragraph (v} below, except that those Bureaus  
within two hundred (200) miles of a television office covered  
by this Agreement shall be a part of the nearest television  
office for Unit Seniority purposes. For purposes such as per  
diem, hotel and travel expenses, either the Bureau or the  
employee’s home, whichever is the more appropriate, shall  
constitute the employee's home office. In additton to such  
staff persons, such Bureaus may employ persons on a daily  
basis to work in and/or outside such Bureaus, subjeci to the  
daily employment provisions in Article A-X1V.  
Those staff employees who are primarily assigned to news  
pickups in the field shall be employed and or upgraded in  
accordance with the provisions of Section A2.2(e)2. Staff  
employces assigned as ENG video tape editors in the field  
shal] be upgraded to Group 7. In the event the Bureau  
employs six (6) or more regular NABET-C WA-represented  
engineering employees on staff, one (1) such employee, who  
shall be operational, will be upgraded to Group 7.  
In the event the Bureau elects to establish facilities for  
recording, editing and transmittal of news material, and  
engages staff employees primarily to perform such work,  
such staff employees shall be classified as Group 5 and paid  
according to the wage scale for Group 5 set forth in Section  
A3.1. Such employees may be assigned to engineering  
functions, such as recording, editing, playback and transmittal  
of taped news material, and maintenance of equipment  
necessary for news pickups in the field, They may be  
assigned to news pickups in the field when necessary and  
shall be upgraded in accordance with Section A2.2(e)2.  
Nothing herein shail preclude other employees assigned to a  
Bureau who are not covered by this Agreement from  
occasionally handling and operating technical equipment at  
the Bureau when employees covered by this Agreement are  
not readily available, nor shalt anything herein preclude  
employees primarily assigned to field crews from also  
performing such work when necessary.  
89  
   
Section A2.2(€}6 (iii) Cont'd  
However, persons represented by other craft unions may not operate  
technical equipment, as defined in the Engineering Agreement, at the  
Bureau. Only the upgradings set forth in Section A2.2{e)2, the  
upgrades for editing as set forth in Sideletters AB and AB-! and the  
upgrades set forth in Paragraph (ii) shall be applicable to employees in  
Paragraphs (ii) or (iii) of this Section.  
(iv)  
The Master Agreement shall cover the staff in  
Paragraphs (ii) and (itt) above, as applicable and consistent with  
the nature of the work and the provisions set forth herein.  
If Burean facilities or Bureau engineering employees are  
utilized for other than ENG work, the provisions of the  
Engineering Agreement shall be applicable to such work.  
(a)  
(b)  
(¢)  
Each Company News Burcau (other than the  
Washington News Bureau) within the Continental  
United States (except Alaska) which is focated more  
than two hundred (200) miles from a television office  
of the Company as set forth im Section 11.4 shall be  
treated for purposes of this Paragraph (¥v} as being  
tied to the nearest such television office.  
When layoffs of regular engineering employees are  
iy be made pursuant to Sections 1 1.6{a} or in  
any television office of the Company which 1s tied  
such a Bureau and there are staff enginecring  
employees who are then currently employed ata  
Bureau tied to that aifice who have less Unit  
Seniority than employees who are to be {aid off at  
the office, such Bureau employecs shall be laid off  
in place of the more senior employees at the office.  
(n the event Bureau employees are laid off pursuant  
10 Subparagraph (b) above, the reduction in force in  
the television office shall be effectuated in the  
following manner:  
(i) The Company shall transfer an  
employee(s) from the office to the  
Bureau, such employee(s} to be selected  
in the sole discretion of the Company  
from among volunteers from the  
90  
(d)  
(¢}  
   
Section Cont'd  
Engineering Unit at such office who are qualified  
to perform the job functions to be filled by the  
transfer. It is further provided that nothing shall  
prevent the Company from transferring volunteers  
who are not so qualified.  
In the event therc are no volunteers who so qualify  
or volunteers whom the Company is otherwise  
willing to transfer, or an insufficient number of  
such volunteers to fill such vacancies, the Company  
shal] have the right to transfer the least senior  
employee(s) at the office. If the least senior  
either is not so qualified or refuses the  
transfer then such least senior employee(s} at the  
office may be laid off in order to accomplish the  
reduction in force.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of the second  
sentence of Section 12.i(b} of the Master Agreement,  
any employee who transfers for any reason to a  
Bureau from a television office of the Company as  
set forth in Section 11.4, or from one Bureau to  
another, shall be credited with his or her Tota] Unit  
Senionty for purposes of the operation of  
Subparagraph (b) above and Paragraph {vi} below.  
An employee may not be compelled to accept a  
transfer from an office to a Bureau, from 4 Bureau to  
any office, or from one Bureau to another, but may  
be subject to layoff for refusal to accept such transfer,  
pursuant to Subparagraphs (c) above and (e) below,  
When layoffs of regular engineering employees  
are to be made pursuant to Sections | |.6(a) or  
(b) in any Bureau of the Company which is tied  
to such an office of the Company and there are  
staff engineering employees who are then currently  
employed at the office tied to that Bureau who  
have less Unit Seniority than employees who are to  
be laid off at the Bureau, such office employees  
shall be laid off in place of the more senior  
employees at the Bureau and the least senior  
employee(s) at the Bureau will be transferred to  
91  
(vi)  
(f)  
(a)  
(b)  
   
the office to which the Bureau is tied. If the  
Bureau employee refuses the transfer to the office,  
he or she may be laid off by the Company in order  
to accomplish the reduction in force.  
Any employee laid off pursuant to Subparagraph (b)  
or (¢) above shal] have rehiring nights pursuant to the  
provistons of Section 11.7 at the Bureau or office  
from which the employee is laid off and,  
shall have such rehiring rights at the office tied to that  
Bureau or at the Bureau as the case may be, on the  
basis of his or her Unit Seniority provided, however,  
that if the employee accepts employment at the  
facitity {Bureau or office) other than the facility from  
which he or she is laid off the employee shall pay his  
or her own moving and relocation expenses, and  
further provided that with respect to the exercise of  
rehiring rights at a Bureau by an employee who was  
laid off at an office, such employee must be qualified  
to perform the job functions of the position to be  
filled at the Bureau.  
An engineenng employee who transfers 10 a Bureau  
from an office of the Company as sct forth in Section  
11.4 (other than the office to which that Bureau is tied}  
will have a three (3) year period, commencing with the  
start of employment al the Bureau, during which the  
employee may, under the conditions specified above,  
return at his or her own expense to his or her original  
office of employment if during the three (3) year  
period either of the following should occur:  
(i) the Bureau is closed down, or the operation  
is so curtailed that the transferee is to be  
laid off from the Bureau; or,  
(ii) ~~ the Company and the Union mutually agree  
that the transferee has been to adjust  
to the Bureau operation even though there  
has been no change in his or her own skiils  
and abilities.  
in the instances specified in (via) above, the  
employee will have the following nights:  
92  
{vii)  
{c)  
(a)  
(6)  
   
tion A ¥i  
(1) The employee may return to his or her  
office of employment if there is a vacancy at  
such office and if the transferee has more Unit  
Seniority than all employees on layoff from  
such office who have recall nights.  
(il) The employee may return to his or her original  
office of employment although there is no  
vacancy at such office, if he or she has more  
Unit Seniority than any one employee at such  
office. In such case, an employee at such  
office will be laid off tn accordance with the  
layoff provisions of the Master Agreement in  
order to permit the transferee’s return.  
(iii) The employee may not return to his or her  
original office of employment if there is no  
vacancy and no ernployee at such office with  
less Unit Seniority than his or her own. In  
such case, the transferee wil] be laid off from  
the Bureau, and he or she may elect to be  
placed in a layoff status from his or her orginal  
office of employment rather than from the  
Bureau, in which case the transferee will have  
the recall privileges specified in Section 11.7  
of the Master Agreement in reference to  
vacancies at the original office of employment.  
A transferee’s service at the Burean shall be  
mecluded in his or her Unit Seniority at the affice of  
employment to which the transferee returns on  
active or layoff status.  
Every ENG staff job opening in the News Bureaus  
will be posted in each television office of the  
Company at least two (2) weeks in advance.  
The Company will give consideration to NABET-  
CWaA-represented employees who apply to fill  
such vacancies, At least the first (1st), third (3rd),  
fifth (5th), etce., person employed at each Bureau  
will be from among qualified NABET-CWA  
people who apply. If an insufficient number  
of NABET-CWA people apply to fill the  
above formula or if an insufficient number of  
93  
   
those who do apply are qualified, then the formula  
will be modified to the extent necessary to fill the  
vacancies. Nothing herein shall obligate the Company  
to fill the even-numbered vacancies on the list.  
(c) Applicants who are accepted will pay their own  
moving and relocation expenses.  
The Company agrees that it will not establish News Bureaus  
on a temporary basis to provide coverage (néws or otherwise)  
of major events such as, but not limited to: political  
conventions, inaugurations, Olympics, any sporting event, etc.  
(ix) The term “staff employee(s)" is used in this Section A2.2(¢)6  
to describe full-time employees as distinguished from persons  
hired on a daily basis permitted in Article  
This provision shal! be applicable to NABET-C WA-represented  
enginecring employees assigned, at the option, outside the  
Continental United States, Puerto Rico or Canada (herein called  
to news field assignments using electronic cameras capable  
of being hand-held and associated equipment. The “Continental United  
States” for the purpose of this Section only, includes Alaska and  
Hawaii. The term “employees” as used in this Paragraph 7 shall refer  
10 either staff employees or daily hires, and shall include members ofa  
camera crew(s) and persons who may be assigned to operate video tape  
equipment. Employees so assigned will, upon individual request, be  
excused from such assignments, provided, however, that the Company,  
after having made a réasonable effort to find a replacement  
from the same office or Bureau, whichever is applicable, can find such  
@ qualified replacement. The term “qualified” in this Section A2.2(¢)7  
shall include accreditation, the of a valid passport and/or  
visa, security clearances, etc., as well as technical qualifications, Ln no  
event shail an employee be so assigned for a period in excess of thirty  
(30) consecutive days without his or her consent.  
The foregoing provisions of this Section A2.2(¢) are applicable only to  
the equipment described. These provisions and practices which may  
develop thereunder shall have no precedential or prejudicial effect on  
situations not involving the utilization of this equipment nor shall the  
inclusion of any provision herein be construed as implying that it sets  
forth rights or obligations which either party does not otherwise have  
under the Master Agreement,  
94  
(6  
   
(See Sideletters BB and BC.)  
9. The past practices and interpretations of the Master  
Agreement that existed prior to July 10, 2003 at all Network  
News operations and at WLS-TV, KABC-TV, KGO-TV and  
WABC-TY with respect to each such Network News  
operation or station regarding persons, stations, organizations  
or production facilities not covered by the Master Agreement  
10 gather news, originate interviews or transmit news material  
for such Network News operations or stations shall continue  
io apply. Further, with respect to the aforementioned  
television stations, each station shal] continue to use it  
NABET-C WA-represented employees to gather or transmit  
news material for affiliates or other organizations, which are  
not covered by the Master Agreement, upon request by such  
affiliates or organizations, to ihe extent the NABET-CWA-  
represented employees have gathered or transmitted such  
news material prior to July 10, 2003.  
(See Sideletter GH .)  
Material designed for use in connection with technical equipment covered by  
Sections A2.2(b) and (c) above, which has been gathered and/or created by outside  
news and other information gathering organizations and by outside graphics service  
organizations (including, but not limited to, Associated Press, United Press  
International, Metro Traffic, Reuters, News Election Service, National Weather  
Service, G&G Designs and any other outstde organization whose services are  
generally available to the broadcast industry, albeit on an exclusive basis in any  
market) may be utilized for any purpose in connection with such technical  
equipment, and may be inserted into the memory of such equipment either by  
direct connection from the outside organization, or indirectly through a storage  
medium, or through any computer system(s), or by any other means.  
Section A2.3 - Video Tape  
(a)  
The jurisdiction set forth in Sections A2.1 and A2.2 shall apply to video tape  
equipment, which includes portable video equipment, Only employees under this  
Agreement shall operate, modify and maintain such video tape equipment  
utilized in connection with any process using electronic methods, wholly or  
partly for the storage and reproduction of video information and other signals  
pertaining thereto. This shall be expressly applicable to video tape or any  
substitute therefor (but not including motion picture film) and electronic  
95  
   
Secuion AZ.3fa) Contd  
storage or memory devices used in connection with animation processes,  
sequencing and timing operations.  
The aforesaid jurisdiction shail apply in the following circumstances:  
(1} Programs produced by the Company which are recorded or prerecorded  
on video tape for broadcast by the Company, including programs  
produced by the Company which are converted from live or film to pre-  
recordings on vidco tape.  
(2) Programs produced by others for the Company which are prerecorded  
on video tape for by the Company, if the Company has the  
basic underlying property rights to the programs and subcontracts the  
production of the programs to others.  
{3) It is understood and agreed that the jurisdiction set forth in this Section  
A2.3 shall also apply to the types of programs set forth herein when  
produced by a subsidiary of the Company (exccpt those which own and  
operate a station} so long as the Company has the right to determine  
the recording facilities where the program is to be recorded or  
prerecorded if such program is being produced for broadcast by the  
Company.  
(b) The Union has exclusive jurisdicdiun in accordance with this Section  
within a two hundred (200) mile radius of a television Owned Station  
covered by the provisions of this except programs  
originating from the regular studios of an affiliate.  
(2) Outside a radius of two hundred (200) miles of a television Owned  
Station covered by the provisions of this Agreement, video tape pickups  
may be made by any station within two hundred (200) miles of the  
pickup. Should the station not have the necessary technical manpower  
on regular payroll, any augmentation of engineering personne] must be  
on a one-for-one basis with the first (Ist), third (3rd), fifth (Sth), etc.,  
engineer being supplied from an Owned Station covered by this  
Agreement. The Company may send a Technical Director to represent  
it in a supervisory capacity in lieu of the first (Ist) Company engineer  
called for herein. If no station within two hundred (200) miles of the  
pickup is able 10 make the pickup, the pickup must then be made by an  
Owned Station covered by this Agreement. Should there be no station  
within two hundred (200) miles of the pickup, the pickup must then be  
made by an Owned Station covered by this Agreement.  
96  
(3)  
(4)  
(5)  
(6)  
(7)  
(8)  
   
Section A2.3(bM3)  
Sections A2.3(b)(1} and (2) above do not apply to video tape recordings  
used solely for reference purposes or for time zone delayed broadcasts  
or delayed public service broadcasts by the President, Vice President or  
members of the Cabinet. The Company will record and/or playback all  
time zone delayed broadcasts from an Owned Statton under this  
Agreement using the Company’s facilities, except that nothing herein  
shail preclude any station from handling its own playback or any  
affiliate from recording and/or playing back to a region which does not  
include an Owned Station under this Agreemicnt.  
Sections A2.3{b)(1) and (2) above do not apply to Sessions and  
Committee or Council meetings originating from the United Nations.  
This exception shall not apply to originations or portions thereof when  
the Company uses its facilities at the United Nations; directs at the  
United Nations the program efforts; assigns Company personne] at the  
United Nations for participation in the pickup; or contributes any of the  
program ¢clements at the United Nations; nor shail this exception apply to  
programs utilizing the United Nations for the purpose of locale or setting.  
The Company agrees that it will not assign programs to be prerecorded,  
recorded or played back on video tape to an or others for the  
purpose of depriving the employees under this Agreement of the  
jurisdiction set forth herein.  
Owned Stations not covered by this contract are to be considered  
affiliates for the purposes of this Section A2.3(b).  
Sections A2.3(b)(1) and (2) above do not apply to news events when  
time does not permit the assignment of employees covered by this  
Agreement to the point of pickup or when owned or leased equipment  
or telephone line facilities are not available to make the pickup,  
provided that such video tapes are recorded and/or played back by  
employees hereunder,  
(See Sideletter AN.)  
Sections A2.3(b)(1) and (2) above do not apply ta news and news  
special event programs originated on a poo! basis by or together with  
any news or other information gathering company(ies) or  
organization(s} and/or any station(s). Nothing herein shall limit the  
Tight of the Company to utilize the facilities of the pool arrangement  
for its own origination when others involved in the pool are nat  
7  
Section Contd  
(c)  
(d)  
(9}  
(10)  
broadcasting, provided that such facilities are utilized for such pool  
broadcast by other participants in the pool. The Company agrees to  
review promptly with the Union any claim that the Engineenng  
employees of the Company are not handling a reasonable proportion of  
the pool programs which it broadcasts. Where Company crews are  
needed for White House pool assignments in Washington, D.C., the  
Company wil] endeavor to give preference to the use of weekly staff  
employees for such assignments.  
Where the Company cannot obtain access to the point of pickup it may  
broadcast any program originated in cooperation with any company or  
organization without assigning an employee to the pickup. When time  
permits, the Company will notify the Union of its intended utilization  
of this Section prior to the broadcast.  
When technical equipment at the point of origination does not require the  
presence of an employee covered by this Agreement in order to originate  
a program from such a point, nothing in this Article shall require the  
presence of such an employee. This Section shall not be construed to  
infringe on NABET-CWA where work covered by the  
Agreement is required to be performed at remote locations, nor shall it  
preclude NABET-CWA from grieving as to whether work covered by the  
Agreement is or is not required in any specific remote pickup.  
(See Sideletter AL.)  
  
As used in this Section A2.3, the terms “program” and “programs” shall  
include program material or portions of programs (i-¢., inserts or segments of any  
length) or entire programs,  
(Sce Sideletters BP, DA and DB.)  
Section A2.4 - New Devices  
(a)  
In the event that the Company introduces or permits to be used any process,  
machinery, equipment or device which substitutes for, supplements or replaces  
any present process, machinery, equipment or device being operated as of the  
date of this Agreement by employees within the Bargaining Unit, such process,  
machinery, equipment or device shall be operated, maintained and, to the extent  
heretofore, repaired only by employees in the Unit herein set forth.  
98  
   
(b)  [Deleted.]  
(c) Paragraph (a) above is not applicable to the production and processing of film.  
(d) = Nothing in this Section A2.4 shall be constmed so as to modify any existing  
collective bargaining agreement or certificatton by the National Labor Relations  
Board to which the Company is a party or which controls the operation of  
devices in connection with broadcasts over Company  
Section A2.5  
On any programs, on and off contrals may be operated by talent and/or personnel  
who are assigned to the program and given the responsibility for monitoring and  
interrupting unacceptable program material, In addition, talent may operate on and off  
microphone controls as part of their assignment as talent when programming  
circumstances warrant.  
Section A2.6  
(a)  
Work on technical equipment which is performed by a manufacturer or the  
manufacturer’s representative in fulfilling the manufacturer’s warranty may be  
performed by persons outside the Bargaining Unit for the period of such warranty  
up to a maximum of five ($) years after such equipment is put into operation, or  
for such longer warranty period as the Company may obtain at the time of  
technical equipment purchase or lease, or for any renewal or extensions thereaf,  
with the manufacturer or its successor. Provided, however, that (i) in the case of  
faults in design or workmanship, or (ii) where equipment does not meet the  
specifications as represented by the manufacturer and where, m cither case, the  
deficiency has not been discovered or remedied within the warranty period as  
described above, work on such equipment may be performed by persons outside  
the Unit. When persons outside the Bargaining Unit perform work on technical  
equipment under the circumstances described in (i} and (ii) above, the Company  
will, whenever practicable, notify the Unton in advance of the work to be  
performed and, upon request, will make available to the Local Union involved a  
copy of the warranty and asset number of such equipment. Such work may be  
performed eithcr on or off Company premises.  
A maintenance engineer assigned to perform maintenance duties pursuant to the  
provisions of Paragraph 3. of Sideletter DK shall be upgraded to Group 6 for the’  
period of such assignment.  
99  
   
Section A2.6(a) Cont'd  
{Grievance AS 00-09 is hereby withdrawn with prejudice and the Union agrees not to  
(b)  
(c)  
(i)  
(it)  
(iii)  
refile the same.}  
In the event that the manufacturer of technical equipment requires, as a  
condition of sale or lease, that the Company refrain from attempting to  
repair and/or maintain such equipment, then the manufacturer or the  
manufacturer's representative may perform such maintenance and/or  
repair, either on or off the Company premises, to the extent that the  
Company is not permitted to do so, Upon the Union's request, the  
Company will supply to the Union the relevant documentary evidence  
establishing the manufacturer's requirement that the Company not  
perform the work involved.  
In addition, the Company may have complex and sophisticated  
maintenance and/or repair work on technical equipment performed by  
the manufacturer of the equipment or the manufacturer’s representative  
either on or off the Company premises where (1) the work to be done is  
not within the current capabilities or qualifications of Unit personnel;  
or (2) the Company is unable to reasonably obtain the tools, equipment,  
techniques, technical layout or other similar technical resources to do  
the work itself,  
In addition, the Company may have maintenance and/or repair work on  
technical equipment performed by outside vendors when such  
equipment is sufficiently out of date or aged such that the parts or tools  
necessary for the prompt repair of such equipment are not readily  
available in sufficient quantities to timely effect such maintenance  
and/or repair.  
The foregoing provisions of Section A2.6 shall not affect the right to  
have work performed by persons outside the Bargaining Unit whether or not the  
technical equipment is under warranty, in accordance with Section 6.1.  
(See Sideletters DP and GC.)  
Section A2.? - New Technical Equipment - Prior Discussions  
Prior to the operational use of new technical equipment by Technical Operations,  
the Company will notify NABET-CWA of its decision to use the equipment in order that  
any operational problems involved may be discussed. The Company will make available  
a copy of specifications and instructional material in its possession.  
   
Section A2.7 Contd  
Whenever possible, such notice will be given in writing at least three (3) weeks  
priar to the placing of such equipment into operation.  
Section A2.8 - Shooting of Motion Picture Film  
It is agreed that the Company will not shoot motion picture film (including the  
recording of sound track in connection therewith) in any studio or theatre in which  
employees of the Company covered by the Engineering Agreement between the  
National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians-Communications  
Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC, and ABC, Inc., are regularly or occasionally  
employed. The motion picture film referred to herein does not include newsreel films,  
documentary-type films, industrial films, promotional films, on-air advertising films,  
and/or training films.  
Any piece of etectronic equipment which is used in the broadcasting of radio  
and/or TY programs, and any piece of electronic equipment used in the making of  
electronic recordings shalt not be used in the production of optical films.  
Section A2.9  
{a) Video cassette recording and playback equipment which is located in Company  
offices {including canference rooms, screening rooms, etc.) may be installed  
(including any necessary adjustment), repaired, connected, re-cannected or  
disconnected to and from the in-house RF or similar system and maintained by  
persons outside the Bargaining Unit.  
(b) Except in editing rooms or suites or other technical areas where NABET-C WA-  
represented engineering employees are assigned to edit video tape, video cassette  
recording and playback equipment may be operated by persons outside the  
Bargaining Unit for any purpose, but not so as to infringe on the Union's  
. jurisdiction over the physica! editing of video tape as provided in this Agreement.  
It is specifically understood that locating and noting precise edit points (e.g.  
using time code) while playing back materia! does not infnnge on the Union’s  
editing jurisdiction. Such equipment may also be used by persons outside the  
Bargaining Unit in non-technical areas to record material for non-broadcast  
purposes.  
(c) Television monitors, sets and/or receivers which are located in Company offices  
{including conference rooms, screening roorns, etc.) may be installed (including  
any necessary adjustments), repaired and connected, re-connected or  
disconnected to and from the in-house RF or similar system and maintained by  
persons outside the Bargaining Unit.  
lol  
   
Section A210  
Section A2.10  
The operation, installation and maintenance of audio-visual loggers (time-lapse  
reference machines) will be on the following basis:  
(a)  
(b)  
{c)  
(d)  
(e)  
The machines will not produce audio or video of acceptable quality for broadcast  
purposes. The Local Union will be given a list showing each such machine and  
its location and the Company will update the list to reflect any changes.  
Audio-visual loggers (whether having the capacity for recording, playback or  
both) will be installed and maintained by NABET-CWA-represented engineering  
personnel, subject to the manufacturer's warranty as set forth in Section A2.6.  
Any such machines which have usable recording capabilities will be located in  
areas in which NABET-C WA-represented engineering personnel are normally  
assigned. Any operation of such machines in such areas will not be performed  
by other than NABET-CWA-represented engineering personnel. It will be the  
responsibility of NABET-C WA-represented engineering personnel to affix and  
initial labels as required, and to make available tapes recorded on such machines  
for the purposes hercinafier described,  
Such tapes may be played back on such machines in the Company’s business and  
financial offices by Company personnel other than NABET-CWA-represented  
engineering personnel in those departments of the Company responsible for  
quality control, broadcast standards and practices, sales service, accounting, legal  
affairs and logging.  
Neither such machines nor such tapes will be used for production viewings and  
screenings or for program production or broadcast purposes. Nor shall such  
machines be used for distributing feeds.  
Section A2,11  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices, or  
provisions in the Master Agreement to the contrary, persons other than NABET-CWA-  
represented engineers may hand-carry or otherwise transport technical equipment,  
provided, however, that vehicles in which technical equipment is installed will not  
normally be driven by non-NABET-CWA Company employees. In addition, persons  
other than NABET-CWA-represented engineers may, on news field assignments, hold  
microphones during their operation,  
162  
Section  
### ARTICLE A-Iil  
### CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE SCALES  
Section A3.1  
Groups for the purpose of classification and minimum wage scales for regular  
employees shall be as follows:  
Group 2 - Radio and Television  
Radio Engineer (2)  
Camera Operator  
Audio Operator (2)  
Studio/Field Engineer  
Graphics, Electronic Character Generator and/or Still Store Operator  
Technical Stock Clerk/Utility  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
The in-hire rate during the first year of employment may, at the option, be  
$950.00.  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
3/6/04 $/5/05 $/4/06 3/31/07  
$1275.00 $1313.50 $1353.00 $1393.50  
{See Sideletters CC and GK Para, 10.)  
Group § - Radio and Television  
Audio Operator  
Hand Held Camera Operator  
Video Operator  
Editor  
VTR Operator  
ENG Audio Operator  
ENG Field Technician  
ENG Field Technician/Editor  
Sr. Network ENG Technical Support Engineer  
Media Preparations Operator  
Robotic Camera/Video Shading Engineer  
103  
   
Section Aj.) Cont'd  
### LDE  
Graphic (NY)  
Network Studio Camera Operator - New York and Los Angeles*  
Radio Engineer (5)  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
The in-hire rate during the first year of employment may, at the option, be  
$950.00.  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06  
$1372.00 $1413.00 $1455.50 $1499.00  
* See March 3, 2000 Letter of Agreement Between the Panties which sets forth the  
circumstances under which Group § is paid.  
(See Sideletters CC, and GK Para. 10.)  
Group 7 - Radio and Television  
ENG-EFP Camera Operator  
ENG-EFP Camera Operator/Editor  
Maintenance  
SNG Operator  
### LDE  
Specialty Camera Operator  
Graphic Artist (NY)  
Post Production Editor  
Editor  
Control] Center Engineer  
Network ENG Tech Support Supervisor  
Transmission Engineer  
Technical Support Supervisor (Radio)  
Radio Engineer (7)  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
   
Section Contd  
The in-hire rate during the first year of employment may, at the Company's option, be  
$1,100.00.  
8/9/03- = 8/5/06-  
8/6/04 8 B5/0S = 8/4/06 3/31/07  
$1441.50 $1484.50 $1529.00 $1575.00  
(See Sideletter GK Para. 10.)  
Group §  
Television Technical Director (8)  
8/903 = = 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/6/04 = 8/4/06 3/31/07  
$1544.50 $1591.00 $1638.50 $1687.50  
The re-classification of Technical Directors from Group 7 to Group 8 in the  
1993-1997 Master Agreement is limited to those Network and/or Owned Television  
Station employees who are classified as “Technical Director” and who are covered by the  
provisions of Stipulation 8 as well as Article A-IV. (By way of illustration, in the New  
York office of the Company those Network employees are inctuded within the 181-110  
Cost Center.) The re-classification does not apply to any other person who is classified  
as Group 7 who operates a switcher and/or related equipment.  
(See Stipulation (8)(e).)  
Video Tape Librarians - Minimum Wage Scale {Per Week)  
$/9/03- $/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
= BSS = «= 3/31/07  
$1095.00 $1128.00 $1162.00 $1197.00  
No regular employee on the payroll as of May 12, 2003, will be downgraded  
from his or her permanent classification as of that date as a direct result of the  
simplification of the job titles contained herein in the negotiations for the successor to  
the 1997-2003 Master Agreement.  
105  
   
Section A3.2  
Section A3.2  
The classification of employees in this Article is solely for the purpose of  
establishing minimum wage scales. Except as set forth in Article A-VII, the Company  
shall not be required to employ or assign one or more employees to each of the  
classifications or groups set above in this Article.  
Section A3.3  
  
### ARTICLE A-IV  
### TECHNICAL DIRECTOR AND TECHNICAL LIGHTING  
Section A4.1  
The Technical Director is responsible for the production of a technically  
acceptable television production as assigned and is in technical charge of the studio  
during production and, unless another Group 8 is present, during engineering  
knockdown,  
{See Stipulation (8).)  
Section A4.2  
The Technical Director shall switch, supervise and be responsible for the  
technical performance of the entire assigned group of technicians engayed in lighting,  
video control, audio, camera and ali other functions of a technical nature necessary to  
the production. The Technical Director or his or her designee only shail issue  
instructions to crew members on all dress rehearsals and all broadcasts of  
programs, provided that during all other rehearsals and during broadcasts of unrchearsed  
programs this rule shall not apply, it being understood that the Program Director, or in  
the Program Director's absence his or her designee, shall have the widest possible  
latitude in creating the program.  
(See Sideletter BD.)  
Section A4.3  
In order to maintain good technical standards in engincering practices the  
Technical Director shall, subject to his or her supervisor and existing jurisdictional  
arrangements, determine the acceptability for use of electronic or mechanical  
106  
   
technical equipment for visual or aural special effects in order to carry out, in  
accordance with engineering standards, the artistic effects desired by the Program  
Director. The Technical Director shall serve as between the Director, Producer  
and technical personnel assigned to him or her during the period following dry rehearsal  
on any program to which the Technical Director is assigned. No member of a crew will  
be removed unless the Technical Director is advised of the reason therefor, which advice  
shall be in advance whenever reasonably practicable.  
{See Stipulation (8)(e).)  
Section A4.4  
The Light Direction Engineer or other employee designated by the Technical  
Director shall be the only person who may direct personnel in connection with the  
handling and placement of lighting equipment on any production.  
(See Stipulation (2).}  
Section A4.5  
it shall be the responsibility of the Technical Director to assure that requests on  
lighting are complied with consistent with good engineering practices and technically  
acceptable pictures, and consequently all requests for lighting changes as to mood,  
special effects, etc., shall be handled through the Technical Director. In the event of a  
disagreement between the Program Director and the Technical Director in connection  
with lighting, the Program Director’s decision shall be followed, provided, however, the  
full responsibility for the technical quality due to the lighting shai] be assumed by the  
Program Director.  
### ARTICLE A-V  
### ISSUANCE OF WORK ASSIGNMENTS  
Section AS. 1  
When a Group 5, Group 7 or Group & employee is on duty, the issuance af work  
assignments by the Company shall normally be made through such Group 5, Group 7 or  
Group 8 employee. However, nothing herein shall be construed to limit management or  
supervisory personnel from issuing such assignments.  
107  
   
### ARTICLE A-VI1  
### SOUND EFFECTS - CHICAGO AND LOS ANGELES  
Section A6é.|  
The following provisions shall apply to the operations in Chicago and  
Los Angeles only:  
Section A6.2  
Only employees under this Agreement shall install, connect and operate the  
sound effects equipment of the Sound Effects Department and sha!l, to the extent that  
such work was previously performed by employees in jobs now under this Agreement,  
design, develop, construct, maintain, improve, repair, catalogue, inventory and  
demonstrate sound effects equipment, Sound effects may be executed and put into the  
electronic system in any way.  
Section A6.3  
Definition of Sound Effects - Sound effects are all those sounds, exclusive of live  
voice or live music, used to creale the illusions necessary in radio broadcasting and in  
television.  
Section A6.4  
Television - In television broadcasting, sound effects may be either on or off the  
set. Sound effects on the set are effects in which the sound emanates from a set where  
the action on-camera is taking place. Sound cffects off the set are effects where the  
sound emanates from a point other than a set where the action on-camera is taking place.  
{a) Sound effects off the set, which are executed off the set, shall be effected by an  
employee covered by this Agreement. The fact that the production of such sound  
effects musi coincide with a visual effect which is produced by someone other than a  
covered employee shall not deprive such covered employee of his or her  
responsibility for installing, connecting and attending the sound effects equipment.  
(b) Sound effects off the set, which are mechanically or electrically executed from on  
the set, may be executed by a performer, if the operation is necessary to the  
action, timing or portrayal of the performer's role, provided, however, that such  
effect may be executed only by the performer while performing his or her role on  
the set. A covered employee shall, in this case, install, connect and attend the  
sound effects equipment.  
108  
   
Section Af.4 (c)  
(c} Sound effects on the set, which are executed from off the set, shall be executed  
by an employee covered by this Agreement.  
(d) Sound effects on the set may be executed on the set by a performer, if the  
execution of this effect requires no props or only props on the set and is  
necessary to the action, timing or portrayal of the performer’s role, provided,  
however, that such effect may be executed only by the performer while  
performing his or her role on the sct. An employee covered by this Agreement  
may, however, be called upon to produce such an effect. In the event that a  
performer operates sound effects equipment on the set, which is not physically  
contained by a stage property and which is not intended to be seen at any time in  
the broadcast picture, an employee covered by this Agreement shall install,  
connect and/or attend the equipment.  
Section A6.$  
In the event that technical employees are engaged by the Company within the  
area covered by this Agreement in the operation of new devices, any sound effects  
equipment used for that purpose shall be operated by employees covered by this  
Agreement.  
Section A6,.6  
An employee covered by this Agreement need not be assigned to handle sound  
effects equipment and/or produce sound effects in connection with:  
(a) The broadcast of a production, or portion thereof, from a theatre, auditorium or  
other similar place not owned or operated by the Company if there is in effect as  
to such place a contract requiring the use of others than employees of the  
Company for production of sound effects.  
(b) The production of certain sound effects which have traditionally been made in the  
theatre, vaudeville or radio by musicians, actors or singers.  
Section A6.7  
The Company may deduct from the salary of an employee an amount equal to (i)  
the number of hours, if any, computed to the nearest quarter (1/4) hour, during which the  
employee performed work for the production of clectrical transcriptions, recordings and  
other means for mechanical reproduction, now or hereafter devised or perfected, which  
are covered by the AFTRA National Code of Fair Practice fos Transcriptions and  
Recordings for Radio Broadcasting Purposes and for which the employee receives fees  
thereunder, (ii) times the salary of the employee computed on an hourly basis.  
109  
### ARTICLE A-VUl  
### MANNING OF TRANSMITTERS  
Section A?.}  
One (1) employee of Group 2 classifteation or higher shall be present at AM or  
FM transmitters during program transmission and scheduled test periods with the  
following exceptions:  
(a) if the transmitter is located contiguous to an operating area, no specific staffing  
of the transmitter shal] be required.  
(b} In the event the Company institutes remote control of an AM or FM transmitter  
pursuant to FCC authorization, such transmitter may be operated without any  
employee being present at the transmitter during such operation,  
Section A7,2  
Two (2} employees of Group 2 classification or higher shall be present at a  
television transmitter, or at an AM or FM transmitter, or both, installed or combined with  
a television transmitter. during program transmission and scheduled test periods with the  
following exceptions:  
(a) One (1) of the two (2) employees may be reassigned for maintenance and/or  
emergency operation at any AM or FM transmitter which is operated by remote  
control.  
{b) Absence of one (1) of the two (2) employees due to illness or other reasons  
beyond the control! of the Company, not in excess of one (1) day, shall not require  
replacement of the employee.  
(c) If the transmitter(s) is located contiguous to an operating area, no specific  
staffing of the transmitter shall be required.  
{d) Inthe event the Company institutes remote control of a TV transmitter pursuant  
to FCC authorization, such transmitter may be operated without any employee  
being present at the transmitter during such operation.  
{e) Where an AM or FM transmitter, or both, are installed or combined with a  
televiston transmitter, and only the AM or FM transmitter, or both, are in  
operation during program transmission and scheduled test periods, Section A7.I  
shall apply.  
110  
   
Section A7.3  
The term “Television Transmitter” where used in this contract shall be understood  
to include both audio and video as a unit.  
Section A7.4  
At television and/or FM broadcast transmitters where a non-union station  
engineer is assigned, there shall also be a Group 7 assistam station engineer assigned. If  
a non-union station engineer is not assigned, there shall be a Group 7 station engineer tn  
charge.  
Section A7.5  
Employees assigned to a transmitter may be assigned to perform any installation  
and maintenance work connected with the technical plant in which the transmitter is  
located. An employee may not be assigned to work beyond the interlock of the  
protective relay system if such work requires the employee to bypass the normal  
interlock functions, unless another employee ts present.  
Section A7.6  
A non-union station engineer may to the extent previously done, design, construct  
and install equipment of a prototype or experimental nature, make measurements and  
adjustments and test technical equipment.  
Section A?.7  
Any transmitter employee who is reassigned to other operations will be given an  
adequate opportunity to adjust to his or her new duties and will receive individual  
training if necessary. In reassigning a transmitter employee, the Company will give  
consideration to the preferences of such employee with respect to the available openings  
for which he or she is qualified. In this connection, such employee will be  
given at least a temporary assignment for a period of at least three (3) months to a  
position of his or her choice.  
Consideration on an individual basis will be given to any increased travel expense  
necessitated by the reassignment of a transmitter employee to another operation as a  
result of changes in transmitter staffing.  
In the event a transmitter employee who is classified as a Group 5 or higher is  
reassigned to other operations as a result of changes in transmitter staffing, and in the  
event such employee is downgraded, such employee shall nevertheless maintain the  
lf]  
Section A7,7 Contd  
Group 5 (or higher) rate for a period of one (1) year after the employee is so  
downgraded.  
### ARTICLE A-VIH  
### MEAL PERIODS  
Section A8.!  
(a)  
(b)  
The length of the first (1st) meal period shall be one (1) hour.  
An employee who elects to cat meals at a place not designated by the Company  
shal] nevertheless remain obligated to report back to work at the time indicated  
by the Company prior to the commencement of the meal period,  
Section A8.2  
{a}  
(b)  
The first (1st) meal period may not be scheduled earlier than the start of the  
employee's second (2nd) hour of work and must be completed by the end of the  
sixth (6th) hour unless the employees affected agree to remain at work, in which  
event they shall receive a premium in addition to their compensation equal to half  
(1/2} their regular rate for each hour or fraction thereof after the sixth (6th) hour  
until such meal period is completed; provided, however, that this premium shall  
not apply to individual employees or groups of employees who with their consent  
are assigned a regular meal period outside of the above hours.  
With respect to engineers assigned to perform job functions associated with  
production and post-production activities, the following shall apply in lieu of  
Section A8.2{a)}:  
The first (1st} meal period may noi be scheduled earlier than the start of the  
employees’ second (2nd) hour of work and must be by the end of the  
sixth (6th) hour. If the production necessitates additional time which intrudes  
into the sixth (6th) hour of work, the engineering crew may be required to  
continue to work into, but not after, the end of the sixth (6th) hour if, in the  
judgment of engineering management, the conditions are justified, In such a  
case, the Company will pay a penalty of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00)  
(increased to Thirty Dollars ($30) effective September 27, 2003) to each  
member of the engineering crew so affected. The meal period must be  
completed by the end of the seventh (7th) hour unless the employee(s) affected  
agree to remain at work, in which event they shall receive a premium in  
addition to their compensation equal to half (1/2) their regular rate for each  
112  
(d)  
   
Section A8.2(b) Cont'd  
hour or fraction thereof after the seventh (7th) hour until such meal period is  
completed; provided, however, that this premium shall not apply to individual  
employees or groups of employees who with their consent are assigned a regular  
meal period outside of the above hours.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees assigned to the following operations  
need not receive a scheduled meal period, but shall be given an opportunity to eat  
during the workday: Network Promo, and Network News and Station News  
Editing (including magazine shows, ENG, etc.) and Network and Station news  
programs involving breaking, extended or special news coverage (for the entire  
crew assigned, e.g., studio, graphics, maintenance, etc). Such an employee shall  
receive a flat payment, in addition to his or her regular compensation, of Forty  
Dollars ($40.00) per day for each such day. This payment shall be in lieu of any  
premiums or penalties, or mea) periods added at the end of a tour, which might  
otherwise be required pursuant to the provisions of Article A-VIII. The Company  
shall inform an employee as soon as reasonably possible, either prior to or during  
the course of the shift, but in any event prior to the start of the meal period,  
whether or not the Forty Dollar ($40.00) payment and opportunity to eat will be  
given. If the Company fails to provide an opportunity to eat as set forth in this  
subsection, instead of the Forty Dollars ($40.00) payment, the Company shall pay  
the employee either the premium set forth in A8.2(a), or the penalty provided m  
A8.2.(b), as applicable.  
(See Sideletter GR.)  
On overnight tours and situations in which only a limited number of employee(s)  
are assigned, such as, but not limited to, network and local break studios, such  
employee(s) may be assigned a last hour lunch in the Company’s discretion.  
For an employee not entitled to a meal pursuant to A&8.2 (c), the Company  
will pay the applicable penalty set forth in A8.5 if such employee is not  
provided a meal period of thirty (30) minutes, which meal period will  
commence not before the tenth (10th) hour of work and not later than the  
twelfth (12th) hour of work. Such meal break, if given, shall be paid at the  
rates provided in Section A&,3. A further penalty will be paid as provided in  
Section A8.5 if additional meal period(s) are not scheduled after each four (4)  
hours of work beyond the twelfth (12th) hour and, if given, the meal break  
will be paid in accordance with Section A8.3.  
113  
Section A8.2 {d) Cont'd  
Notwithstanding the above, any employee covered by A8.2(¢) shall not be entitled  
to an A8.3 meal break(s) or A8.5 penalties if the employee 1s entitled to receive any  
payment under Section 7.7(b).  
(See Stipulation (5).)  
Section  
In the event an employee remains on duty for a period longer than ten (10) hours  
a second (2nd} meal period of thirty (30) minutes shall be scheduled not earlier than four  
(4) elapsed hours after the end of the First meal period and not later than the  
employee's twelfth (12th) hour of tour and the Company shail pay to such employee his  
or her rate of pay al time and one-half (1-1/2) for such time taken off for the second  
(2nd) meal penod, An additional period of thirty (30) minutes shall be scheduled after  
each four (4) hours of work beyond the twelfth (12th) hour and shall be paid at the rate  
of time and one-half (1-1/2).  
Section A&.4  
IlIness of an employee scheduled to relieve another employee shall not absolve  
the Company ofits obligation to pay penalties for irregular meal periads,  
Seciion A&.5  
If the Company requires an employee to work during the meal penod or periods  
provided for in Section A8.3, the employee shall receive, in addition to the time and one-  
half (1-1/2) pay required by Section A&8.3, a penalty payment for each such meal period  
during which the employee works as follows:  
First (ist} such meal period not received on a $7.00  
The penalty payment shall be increased by one (1) additional dollar for each  
additional meal period not received on a tour.  
Section A&.6  
The provisions of this Article with respect to the first (1st) meal period shall not  
apply to employees assigned to transmitters. Where such an employee has a regular  
workday of eight (&) hours with no meal period and is expected to eat on the job, such  
employee will receive a per diem food allowance of Six Dollars and Fifty Cents ($6.50)  
for each such day worked at such transmitter.  
L14  
Section A8.7  
The following provisions shall be applicable to employees assigned to the  
gathering of news in the field using electronic cameras capable of being hand-held and  
associated equipment and the technical editing of such news (hereinafter referred to in  
this Section A8.7 as “ENG”). These provisions of Section A8.7 and practices which may  
develop thereunder shall have no precedential or prejudicial effect on situations act  
involving the utilization of this equipment for ENG nor shall the inclusion of any  
provision herein be construed as implying that it sets forth rights or obligations which  
either party docs not otherwise have under the Master Agreement.  
(a) (i) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section A8.2, an employee who is  
assigned for his or her entire tour to an ENG pickup(s} in the field may  
be required to delay his or her first (Ist) meal period. [t is understood  
that in situations in which this Section is applicable, an employee's  
meal period will be delayed only when required by the exigencies of  
the assignment and the Company will make every reasonable effort to  
reduce the situations in which such meal periods are delayed. The  
penalties in Section A8.2 shal] be applicable to this Paragraph,  
provided, however, that in no event shall an employee covered by this  
Paragraph who is required to delay his or her meal period receive a  
premium payment as set forth in Section A8.2 which is less than the  
equivalent of one (1) hour’s pay at his or her regular rate.  
(ii} Notwithstanding the provisions of Section A8.7(i) above and Section  
A8.2, at Owned television stations, an employee who is assigned for the  
majority of his or her entire tour to an ENG pickup(s) in the field, shall  
have no scheduled meal period, but shall be given an opportunity co eat  
during the workday. Such an employee shall reccive a payment, in  
addition 10 his or her regular compensation, of One Hundred Sixty  
Dollars ($160.00) (effective September 27, 2003, mcreased to Two  
Hundred Dollars ($200.00)) per week, (Thirty-two Dollars ($32.00)  
(effective September 27, 2003 increased to Forty Dollars $40.00) per  
day in the case of employees hired on a daily basis), which shail be  
prorated to account for any days in the workweek during which the  
employee is sick, on vacation, on leave of absence, or otherwise not  
performing ENG duties. This payment shall be in licu of any  
premiums or penalties, or meal periods added at the end of a tour,  
which might otherwise be required pursuant to the provisions of  
Sections A8.7(a)}, A8.2 and A8.5.  
Its  
Section A9.|  
(ii)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of A8.7({i) above and Section A8.2, at  
Network News operations an employee assigned for the majority of his  
or her entire tour to ENG pickups tn the field need not receive any  
scheduled meal period but shall receive a flat payment of Thirty-Seven  
Dollars and Fifty Cents ($37.50) (effective September 27, 2003,  
increased to Forty Dollars ($40.00)) per day. This payment shall be in  
licu of any premiums or penalties or meal periods added at the end ofa  
tour, which might otherwise be required pursuant to the provisions of  
Sections A8.7(a}, A8.2 and A&.5 for each day of work where the  
Company clects not to schedule a meal. When the Company makes  
such election, the employee shall be given an opportunity to eat. The  
Company shall inform employees as soon as reasonably possible  
whether or not the Fory Dollar ($40.00) payment and the opportunity  
to eat will be given, either prior to or during the shift, but in any event  
prior to start of the meal period. In those circumstances where the  
Company decides with respect to particular employee(s) or  
assignment(s} not to schedule a meal period for an entire work week  
and so notifies the employee(s) affected in advance, the employee(s)  
shall instead receive a Nat payment of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00)  
per week in licu of any other premiums or penalties at the end of a tour,  
which mnught otherwise be required pursuant to the provisions of  
Section A8.7(a}, A8.2 and A8.5, Such employee shall also receive an  
additional Forty Dollars ($40.00) per day for a sixth (6th) or seventh  
(7th) day of such assignment(s) described in the preceding sentence  
within a work week.  
The provision of subsection (b)(1} above shall also mclude other  
employees assigned to Network News ENG operations, whether or not  
assigned to pickups in the field, in the event of breaking, extended or  
special news coverage.  
### ARTICLE A-IX  
### REST PERIODS  
[1 is the intention of the Company to continue the practice of granting a  
reasonable rest period during television program rehearsals or a reasonable relief period  
for each job function during an extended television broadcast such as a football game  
whenever possible to do so,  
116  
   
### ARTICLE A-X  
### EQUIPMENT EXCESSIVE IN WEIGHT  
Section A10.1  
The Company recognizes that employees must not be required to handle  
equipment which is cumbersome or whose weight is excessive. The question as to  
whether a particular piece of equipment is cumbersome or excessive in weight under all  
circumstances may be submitted as an immediate grievance.  
When an operating unit of the Company (¢.g., or network ENG, etc.)  
assigns one person to an ENG assignment, it will endeavor to issue to such person the  
lightest equipment from its current inventory at the applicable location that is appropriate  
for the assignment(s) and consistent with its other operational requirements.  
### ARTICLE A-XI  
### USE OF EMPLOYEE’S CAR  
Section  
In the case of an employee assigned to any of the following transmitters who  
drives to and from work, the Company shall pay to such employee the following amount  
per vehicle per day:  
KGO, San Francisco, California, Seven Dollars ($7.00) per day.  
KGO-TY, San Francisco, California, Five Dollars and Fifty Cents ($5.50) per day.  
Section  
In the event that Company transportation is not available to employees assigned  
to Mount Wilson, the Company shall pay to each employee who drives his or her own  
car to and from work the amount of Thirteen Dollars (313.00) per day.  
Section  
Traveling time credit for employees assigned to Mount Wilson shall be one  
and one-half (1-1/2) hours and such traveling time credit shall be considered as  
working time. .  
1)?  
   
### ARTICLE A-XII  
### AIR CREDITS  
Section Al2.]  
The Company shalt give air credits to the Technical Director on all programs of  
fifteen {15} minutes duration or longer at least once each week, except where bona fide  
time shortages prevent such credits from being given, and except on those programs  
where no air credits are given.  
Film Technical Director air credits will be granted on shows involving integrated  
film in accordance with the above paragraph, except that film FD credits are not  
required on full film shows unless other ABC-TV production personnel receive credit;  
nor are film TD credits required on shows involving only commercial film inserts.  
(See Paragraph 8 of Sidelctter AB.)  
### ARTICLE A-XIll  
### COMPANY- WIDE EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES  
Section Al3.1  
(a) The Company will, in addition to complying with Section 3.3 of the Master  
Agreement, if time permits, notify the Sector Office of the Union of opportunities  
for employment (except daily employment) in jobs covered by this Agreement.  
Any regular employee at another office of the Company who has been laid off by  
the Company and who has rehiring privileges pursuant to Section 11.7, upon  
notification to the Company of the employee’s interest in the employment  
opportunity will be interviewed at the office of his or her layoff and will be given  
good faith consideration for such employmem opportunity. Such laid off  
employee, if rehired at another office of the Campany, shall be credited at the  
office of his or her rehire with the employee's Total Company and Pay Seniority,  
but not with Unit Seniority accrued at the office of his or her layoff. Such  
employee will also retain rehiring privileges and Unit Seniority at the office of his  
or her layoff for the applicable period specified in Section 11.7, which period  
shall not be affected by the employee's employment at the office of his or her  
rehire; however, if such employee refuses recall 10 an employment opportunity  
(other than a vacation relief or other temporary employment opportunity) at the  
office of his or her layoff, the employce shall forfeit rehiring privileges and Unit  
Seniority at that office. If such employee accepts recall at the office of hts or her  
layoff, the employee may return to such office and will receive credit for all  
seniority accrued at both offices. An employee who moves from one office  
118  
(b)  
   
Al3.lf(a  
to another pursuant to this Article shall bear all costs of such transfer, including  
the cost of moving to the office of his or her rehire and/or returning to the office  
of his or her layoff.  
This Article applies only when there are no employees with rehiring privileges at  
the office where the employment opportunity exists or when all employees with  
rehiring privileges at such office have refused or are unavailable for recall  
pursuant to Section  
### ARTICLE A-ATV  
### DAILY EMPLOYMENT  
Section Al4, |  
{a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
(c)  
The Company shall have the right to hire persons on a daily basis, provided,  
however, that the total number of days worked by such persons m any calendar  
year may not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the number of days paid to regular  
engineering employees during calendar year 1996.  
At each office of the Company, the Company shall give consideration for daily  
employment in the studio to any laid-off engineering employee with recall rights  
from such office who notifies the Company at the time of his or her layoff, and  
each six (6) months thereafter, that he or she desires to perform work on a daily  
basis in the separate seniority group from which he or she was laid off and who,  
in the sole judgment of the Company, possesses the skills and abilities necessary  
to perform the specific work involved.  
[Deteted.]  
The Company will provide each Local Union and the Sector, on a monthly basis,  
with a report containing information regarding persons hired on a daily basis,  
including each such person's name, address, telephone number, Social  
Security number, itemized gross earnings, dates of employment, classification  
and the applicable scheduling office.  
The Company shall advise each person hired on a daily basis of his or her  
obligations pursuant to Section 3.1(b) at such time as he or she is first engaged,  
and will furnish such person with a copy of Article A-XIV.  
119  
ti  
Section Al4.2  
(a)  
  
—- =  
The Company may engage persons on a daily basis to work a minimum of four  
(4), six (6), eight (8) or ten (10) hours on any day at the daily rate(s) set forth in  
Section A1l4.5. Daily hires may be assigned at such rate(s) for any four (4), six  
(6), eight (8) or ten (10) consecutive hours within any twenty-four (24)  
consecutive hours, provided that for the hours referred to in Article X, such  
persons shall receive additional compensation as provided in that Article. At the  
time of engagement, the Company shall specify the length for each day(s) of the  
engagement. The Company shalt have the right to mix four (4), six (6), eight (3)  
and ten (10) hour engagements, where applicable. The ten ((9) hour rate shal?  
apply only in the field.  
Any work performed by persons engaged on a daily basis in excess of eight (8)  
hours m any day (except for those hired at the ten (10) hour rate}, or in cxcess of  
forty (40) hours in a regular work week (which shall be defined as beginning at  
12:01 AM Saturday and continuing until 12:00 Midnight the following Friday),  
and any work performed on New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day,  
Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day {last Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day,  
Veteran’s Day, Thankspiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving Day and  
Christmas Day shall be regarded as overtime and compensated at one and one-  
half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay hereunder in quarter (1/4} hour  
segments. In addition, except for those daily hires hired in the field at the ten  
(10) hour rate, any work performed by persons engaged on a daily basis on New  
Year's Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day  
shall be compensated at a rate equal to two (2) times their straight-time rate of  
pay for all overtime hours worked on any such holiday, For daily hires hired in  
the field at the ten (10) hour rate, compensation at the rate equal to two (2) times  
shall not commence on the holidays worked (as enumerated in the preceding  
sentence) until after the tenth (10th ) hour of work. The regular hourly rate of  
pay for persons engaged on a four (4), six (6), eight (8) or ten (!0} hour basis,  
shall be, respectively, one-fourth (1/4), one-sixth (1/6), onc-eighth (1/8) or one-  
tenth (1/10) of such rates, Persons hired on a four (4) hours basis shall be paid at  
a rate equa! to one-fourth (1/4) the four {4) hour rate for time worked in cxcess of  
four (4) hours but less than six (6) hours. Persons engaged at the ten (10) hour  
rate shall be paid for hours in excess of ten (10) in a day at the rate of one and  
one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate in quarter hour segments. In no case shall  
overtime accrue on overtime. Penalties shal] not be considered overtime or part  
of the base pay.  
120  
(c)  
(d)  
(¢)  
(f)  
{g)  
   
Sectign Al4.2¢b) Cont'd  
In addition, up to one (1) hour of overtime, whether scheduled orally or in  
whiting, may be cancelled after an employee has reported to work, if the  
Company determines in its sole discretion that such work is not needed and the  
employee is released from duty. This provision shall not be construed to restrict  
the ability to cancel, eliminate or shorten overtime under any other  
provisions of the Master Agreement. Nor shall it be construed so as to shorten a  
ten (10) hour engagement for a person engaged on a ten (10) hour basis for one  
or more days of engagement.  
In the event a daily hire engaged on a four (4) or six (6) hour basis is required to  
work in excess of six (6) hours, he or she shall be compensated at the eight (8}  
hour rate. The Award in AC 91-2 is null and void. Persons engaged on a daily  
basis who work no more than six (6) hours pursuant to Paragraph (a) above shall  
not receive any paid meal period.  
In the event the Company engages a person on a daily basis and thereafter  
cancels such engagement between 12:00 noon and 5:00 PM of the day preceding  
his or her assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to four (4) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for an eight (8) hour call or longer, three (3) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for a six (6) hour call, or two (2) hours’ pay if the  
engagement was for a four (4) hour call. [f the engagement is canceled after 5:00  
PM of the day preceding the assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to  
four (4), six (6), eight (8) or ten (10) hour engagement, whichever is applicable.  
Persons hired on a daily basis shall receive a payment of Fifty-five Dollars  
{$55.00} (increased to Sixty Dollars ($60.00) effective the first day of the payroli  
period following June 1, 2006) a day in lieu of benefits provided, however,  
persons hired on a daily basis at the Fteid Utility rate set forth in Section A1l4.5  
shall not receive any payment in lieu of bencfits.  
(See Sidetetters FD and FD-1.}  
Each person who works ona daily basis more than eighty (80) days in any  
calendar year shall receive annual vacation pay in an amount equal to four  
percent (4%) of such straight-time rate of pay for all straight-time  
hours worked in that calendar year, payable by scparate check by February 15 of  
the next succeeding calendar year.  
(See Sideletter FB.)  
[Deleted.]  
121  
Section Al4,2th)  
(h) The Company will provide a daily hire employee with Company paid life  
insurance in the pnncipal amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) on the  
following basis:  
(i) A daily hire employee who works more than eighty (80) days in a  
calendar year shaJl qualify for such life insurance policy for 4 single  
calendar year as set forth herein.  
(ii) The policy will be in effect for the calendar year immediately following  
the qualifying year as defined in subparagraph {i) above.  
(iii) Eligibility for this life insurance policy shall lapse and the employee  
shall have no coverage provided by the Company effective January | in  
any calendar year immediately following a year in which the daily hire  
employee does not work more than eighty (80) days within a calendar  
year.  
{iv} Daily hire employees who qualify for this coverage as described above  
in calendar year 2003, shall be eligible for the above life insurance  
policy effective January 1, 2004.  
(Sce Sideletters DT and GF}  
Section A14.3  
(a) The following provisions of the Master Agreement shall not apply to persons  
hired on a daily basis: Sections 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7, Articles VIII except  
Sections 8.1 (the final sentence only) and 8.) 1, XI except Sections 11.9, Xif  
through XV, Sections 16.4(a), 16.5, 16.6(a} 16.11 and 16.12, Articles  
through XIX, XX1, except the Company’s Accidental Death and  
Dismemberment Poticy, XXU}, XXIV, and Articles through XXIX. In lieu  
of the respective provisions of the Master Agreement, the following shail apply to  
such persons hired on a daily basis:  
{b) Section 16,4(a): On “travel-only” days daily hire employees shall be paid a  
stipend in the amount of One Hundred Forty Dollars ($140.00) for any flight  
when the regularly scheduled flight time is less than two (2) hours and Two  
Hundred Eighty ($280.00) for any flight when the reguiarly scheduled  
flight time is equal to, or more than, two (2) hours. This stipend shall be in lieu  
of any wages, payment(s) in lieu of benefits, premiums, penalties or other  
compensation to which the employee may be entitled under the Master  
  
(c)  
(d)  
{e)  
   
Section {b} Contd  
Agreement and the time spent in travel and this iravel time shall not be counted  
as time worked for any purpose, nor included within the ‘total number of days  
worked’ by persons hired on a daily basis as set forth in Section Al4.I{a).  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in sections (a) and (b) above, when  
there is a “travel only” day sandwiched between work on two (2} Company  
assignments, such “travel only” day shall be included solely for purposes of  
calculating a daily hire’s entitlement to: (i) vacation pay in Section A1l4.2(f); (ii)  
annual payment in lieu of pension in accordance with Sideletter FB; (iii) life  
insurance under Section Al4.2(h) above, and (iv) days under Section 3.1(6}, On  
such “travel only” days as described in this subsection (c), regardless of the  
length of the scheduled flight time, the daily hire employee shall receive the full  
Two Hundred and Eighty ($280.00) stipend and shall be credited with a  
fuil day of purposes of determining the daily hire employee’s entitlement to the  
benefits and provisions enumerated in the preceding sentence. Additionally, a  
daily hire employee on such “travel only” days when traveling directly from one  
Company assignment to another Company assignment, shall receive the Fifty-  
Five Dollars ($55.00) {increased to Sixty Dollars ($60.00) effective June !, 2006)  
per day payment in lieu of benefits in accordance with Al4.2(e).  
Section 16,6(a): For the purpose of this Article XVI as it applies to persons hired  
on a daily basis, “home office” shal] be determined by Company assignment and  
Shall be defined, at the Company’s election, as the daily hire’s home or regular  
place of business, a Company facility within commuting distance of the daily  
hire’s home if he or she is required to report at such facility before commencing  
the next assignment, or the out-of-town hotel or headquarters to which the  
employee may be assigned by the Company for the duration of the assignment,  
Section 16.11: A person hired on a daily basis shall receive an amount equal to  
eight (8) hours’ pay at his or her straight-time rate for each day during which  
such person is required by the Company to remain out-of-town, but has no work  
assignment.  
Section Ai4.4  
[Deleted.]  
{See Sideletter EH - Vendor Emptoyces.}  
123  
   
Section Al4.5  
Section Al4.5  
The following shall set forth the groups for purposes of classification and  
minimum wage scales for persons engaged on a daily basis:  
$/9/03-  
8/6/04  
Four Hour $46.50  
Six Hour 70.00  
Eight Hour 92.50  
Ten Hour* . 127.50  
8/9/03-  
$/6/04  
Four Hour $79.50  
Six Hour 119,40  
Eight Hour 138.50  
Ten Hour* 217,50  
*Applies only in the field. See Sideletier GK (4) and (5) for rules pertaining.  
Group 2  
Camera Operator  
Audio Operator (2)  
Field Utility*  
8/7/04-  
8/5/05  
$48.00  
72.00  
$5.50  
131.50  
8/T/04-  
8/5/05  
$82.00  
123.00  
163.50  
224.00  
Studio/Field Engmeer  
Graphics, Electronic Character Generator and/or Stitl Store Operator  
Technical Stock Clerk/Utility  
8/9/03-  
8/6/04  
Four Hour $127.50 $k31.50  
Six Hour 191.50 197.00  
Eight Hour 255.50 263,00  
Ten Hour* 350.00 360.50  
8/6/05-  
8/4/06  
$49.50  
74.00  
98.50  
135.50  
Utility  
8/6/05-  
8/4/06  
$84.50  
126.50  
168.50  
230.50  
8/6/05-  
8/4/06  
$135.50  
203.00  
271.00  
371.50  
{24  
8/5/06-  
1/0  
  
76.00  
  
139.50  
8/5/06-  
  
$87.00  
130.50  
173.50  
237.00  
8/5/06-  
3/31/07  
$139.50  
209.00  
279,00  
382.50  
   
Audio Operator  
Hand Held Camera Operator  
Video Operator  
Editor  
VTR Operator  
ENG Audio Operator  
ENG Field Technician  
ENG Field Technician/Editor  
Sr. Network ENG Technica] Support  
Media Preparations Operator  
Robotic Camera/Video Shading Engineer  
### LDE  
Graphie Artist (NY)  
(See Sideletter CC)  
B/9/03- = B/H/D5- =. BY 5/06-  
8/6/04 = 85/05 BANG  
Four Hour $137.00 $145.00 $149.50  
Six Hour 206.00 218.50 225,00  
Eight Hour 274.00 282.00 290.50 299.00  
Ten Hour* 377.00 388.50 400.00 412,00  
only in field. See Sideletter GK (6) and (7) for rules pertaining.  
Group 7  
ENG-EFP Camera Operator  
ENG-EFP Camera Operator/Editor  
Maintenance  
SNG Operator  
### LDE  
Specialty Camera Operator  
Graphic Artist (NY}  
Post Production Editor  
Editor  
Control Center Engineer  
Network ENG Technical Support Supervisor  
Transmission Engineer  
125  
8/9/03-  
8/6/04 S505 8/4/06 331/07  
Four Hour $144.00 $148.50 $153.00 $157.50  
Six Hour 216.50 223.00 229.50 236.50  
Eight Hour 288.50 297.00 306.00 315.00  
Ten Hour* 396.50 408.50 421.00 433.50  
* Applies only in the field.  
Group 8 - Television Technical Director (8)  
8/9/03- —-8/5/06-  
8/6/04 B/S/DS BANG  
Four Hour $154.50 $159.00 $164.00 $169.00  
Six Hour 232.00 239.00 246.00 253.50  
Eight Hour 309.06 313,50 328,06 338.00  
Ten Hour* 425.50 433.50 451.50 465.00  
*Applies only in the field,  
Video Tape Librarians-Daily Rates  
8/9/03- 8/6/05- 8/S/06-  
8/6/04 «= B/S5/0S = 31/07  
Four Hour $109.50 $113.00 $116.50 $120.00  
Six Hour 164.50 169.50 174.50 179.50  
Eight Hour 219.00 225.50 232.50 239.50  
(See Sideletter EN for KGO-TV and KGO-Radio Rates}  
126  
   
### B. TRAFFIC AND COMMUNICATIONS AGREEMENT  
### ARTICLE B-I  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section B1.1  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement applies to:  
{a} All the Traffic Coordinators of the Company located in New York employed in  
the Traffic Operations Division of the Traffic Department of the Company,  
excluding the Director of Traffic, Traffic Managers and Assistant Traffic  
Managers;  
(b)  {Deteted.]  
{c) All Traffic Operators of the Company located in San Francisco employed in the  
Traffic Department of the Company at said office, excluding the Traffic  
Manager.  
### ARTICLE B-I}  
### DUTIES  
Section  
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no duties as set forth in Section  
B2.2 of this Article shall be performed by any person other than an employee of the  
Company as hereinabove defined, except that in the San Francisco office of the  
Company, the Company may assign any person not covered by the Master Agreement to  
perform such duties or any other duties over which the Union may claim exclusive  
jurisdiction for the “B” Unit Traffic Operator in San Francisco, No person employed as  
of the ratification date of the successor to the 1997-2003 Master Agreement as a Traffic  
Operator in the “B” Unit in the San Francisco office of the Company shall be laid off as  
a direct result of the immediately foregoing exception.  
Section B2.2  
Traffic Coordinators to which this Article applies shall:  
(a) | Check executive orders for necessary program transmission information, As  
requested, issue Traffic operation orders and order all special wire, broadcast and  
telecast facilities for the Company’s local and network use  
12?  
   
{which shall include wire lines and radio links used in overseas and foreign  
transmission) and personnet, and contact network Traffic control points giving  
them program transmission information. Coordinate all program transmission  
Operations and check to see that various departments have supplied the program  
transmission details which are to be furnished by them.  
(b)  Méaintain Traffic operating charts, Traffic boards and daily logs. Draw up Traffic  
transmission orders and inform necessary Traffte points including AT&T and  
Other carriers involved,  
ic) In accordance with general instructions and a5 requested, issue program  
iransmission orders to the Engineering Department in connection with program  
originations involving other than regular studio feeds.  
{d) As requested and to the extent necessary, exchange program transmission  
information with employees of the other broadcasters and continue to perform  
those duties which they have ordinarily performed heretofore under the direction  
or supervision of their supervisor.  
(See Sideletter CI.)  
Section B2.3  
[Deleted.]  
Section B2.4  
A Traffic Coordinator wil} be assigned to three (3) major events each year. Those  
events wil] be determined by mutual agreement between the Company and the  
Union each January of that year. Traffic may, at the discretion of the  
Company, be assigned to other remote activities.  
(See Sideletter CJ.)  
Section B2.5  
[Deleted.]  
128  
   
Section B2.6  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, letter agreements, grievance settlements,  
practices or provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, management or supervisorial  
personne] may make and place satellite facility inquiries, including, but not limited to,  
inquiries as to satellite availability at a specific tume of day, costs for such facilities and  
inquiries which result in traffic orders subject only to written confirmation.  
Further, persons not covered by this Agreement may order transmission facilities:  
(1) for use by Network radio; (2) for use by any radio Owned Stations; (3) for any  
programs or portions of programs which are nol produced by the Company; (4) for any  
programs or portions of programs which originate outside of the continental United  
States; or (5) for any programs or portions of programs not broadcast by the ABC  
Television Network. In addition, persons not covered by this Agreement at each  
television Owned Station may order transmission facilities for television news maternal  
for such station: (1) from any television station or other television news gathering  
organization (e.g., CNN, CONUS, Florida News Network, etc.) regardless of when such  
material is to be broadcast; and (2} from satellite truck vendors if the initial broadcast of  
such news material ts to be within twenty-four (24) hours from the placement of such  
order, provided, however, that Traffic Coordinators will continue to be utilized to place  
such orders with vendors in the case of anticipated scheduled news events.  
At television Qwned Stations, persons other than employees covered by this  
Agreement may perform any functions in connection with keeping the daily log.  
It is specifically understood and agreed that the Company retains the right, at its  
discretion, to require persons covered by this Agreement to order transmission facilities  
and to perform related duties which at the Company’s discretion, may also be assigned to  
persons not covered by this Agreement. Further, any performance of these discretionary  
duties by persons covered by this Agreement shall not, under any circumstances,  
constitute an expansion of existing jurisdiction pursuant to any provision of the Master  
Agreement nor entitle any person covered by this Agrcement to continue to be given any  
or all of these assignments, which the Company has retained the right to assign to others,  
No claim or dispute involving an assignment made pursuant to this paragraph, or the  
failure to make such an assignment, shall be subject to arbitration,  
{See Sideletter DE.)  
129  
   
Section B3.1 - Traffic  
0-1  
1-2  
2-3  
3-4  
4 & over  
Section B3.2  
8/9/03-  
8/6/04  
$556.00  
851.00  
974.00  
| ,085.00  
1,372.00  
8/9/03-  
8/6/04  
$605.00  
909.50  
1,04 .00  
1,158.00  
1,441.50  
  
Section B3.3 - San Francisca  
Years  
0-1  
1-2  
2-3  
34  
4& over  
8/9/03-  
8/6/04  
$683.06  
732.50  
789,00  
836.00  
897.50  
### ARTICLE B-III  
### CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
$/7/04-  
8/5/05  
$572.50  
876.50  
1,003.00  
1,417.50  
1,413.00  
8/7/04-  
8/5/05  
$623.00  
937.00  
1,072.60  
1,192.50  
1,484.50  
8/7/04-  
8/5/05  
$708.50  
754,50  
812,50  
861.00  
924.50  
130  
Minimum Wage Scales Per Week  
$/6/05-  
$/4/06  
$589.50  
903.00  
1,033.00  
1,151.06  
1,455.50  
8/6/05-  
8/4/06  
$641.50  
965,00  
| 104.00  
[228.50  
1,529.00  
8/6/05-  
8/4/06  
$730.00  
777.00  
837.00  
887.00  
952.00  
8/5/06-  
$607.00  
930.00  
1,064.00  
1,185.50  
1,499.00  
8/5/06-  
  
$660.50  
994,00  
1,137.00  
1,265.50  
1,575.00  
8/5/06-  
$752.00  
800.50  
862.00  
913.50  
980.50  
   
Section B3.4  
(a)  
The Company shall have the right to hire persons on a daily basis in order to  
cover temporary work load requirements or the absence of an employee(s)  
covered by this Agreement.  
Employees hired on a daily basis shall be paid for each day worked a daily rate  
equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the applicable weekly wage scale (at any step of the  
escalator) which shall be the regular rate of pay for daily hire employees as of  
that date, Daily hires may be assigned to work at such rate any eight (8)  
consecutive hours within any twenty-four (24} hours, provided that  
for the hours referred to in Article X such persons shall receive additional  
compensation as provided in that Article. Any work performed by such persons  
in hours in excess of forty (40) hours in a regular work week (which shall be  
defined as beginning at 12:01 AM Saturday and continuing until 12 Midnight the  
following Friday), or in cxcess of eight (8) hours in any day and any work  
performed on New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day,  
Memorial Day (Last Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Veteran's Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be  
regarded as overtime and compensated at one and one-haif{] 1/2) times the  
regulur rate of pay in quarter (1/4) hour segments. In addition, any work  
performed by persons engaged on a daily basis on New Year’s Day, Presidents’  
Day, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be compensated  
at a rate cqual to two (2) times their straight-time rate of pay for all overtime  
hours worked on any such holiday. In no case shall overtime accrue on overtime,  
Daily hires will receive Fifty-five Dollars ($55.00) per day {increased to Sixty  
Dollars ($60.00) effective the first day of the payroll pertod following June I,  
2006) in lieu of benefits.  
(See Sideletters FD and FD-1.}  
Each person hired on a daily basis who has worked eighty (80) days in a calendar  
year shall receive vacation pay in an amount equal to four percent (4%) of such  
employee's straight-time rate of pay for all straight-time hours worked in that  
calendar year, payable by separate check by February 15 of the next succeeding  
calendar year.  
(See Sideletter FB.)  
131  
(b)  
ti  
4a  
The Company will provide a daily hire employee with Company paid life  
insurance in the principal amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) on the  
following basis:  
(i) A daily hire employee who works more than eighty (80) days in a  
calendar year shall qualify for such life insurance policy for a single  
calendar year as set forth herein.  
(11) The policy will be in effect for the calendar year immediately following  
the qualifying year as defined in subparagraph (1) above.  
{iii) Eligibility for this life insurance policy lapse and the employee  
shall have no coverage provided by the Company effective January J in  
any calendar year immediately following a year in which the daily hire  
employee does not work more than eighty (80) days within a calendar  
year.  
{iv) Daily hire employces who qualify for this coverage as described above  
in calendar year 2003, shall be eligible for the above life insurance  
poticy effective January 1, 2004.  
In the event the Company engages a person on a daily basis and thereafter  
cancels such engagement between 12:00 noon and 5:00 PM of the day preceding  
his or her assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to four (4) hours’  
pay. If the engagement is canceled after 5:00 PM of the day preceding the  
assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to eight (8) hours’ pay,  
whichever is applicable.  
The following provisions of the Master Agreement shall not apply to  
daily hires: Sections 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7, Articles VI except Section 8.1 (the final  
sentence only), XI except Section 11.9, XII through XV, Sections 16.4(b}, 16.5,  
16.6(a}, 16.11 and 16.12, Articles X VE through XIX, AXI, AXII except the  
Company's Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, XXII], XXIV and  
Articles XXVI through XXIX.  
132  
   
### ARTICLE B-IV  
### TRANSPORTATION FOR FEMALE EMPLOYEES  
Section B4.1  
A female employee who is required to work at her home office later than 8:00  
PM will, if requested, be furnished transportation to her home if it ts within five (5)  
miles of her place of employment or, if her home is farther away, to the public  
transportation facility normally available to such employee. If, in such event,  
transportation to such location ts not furnished by the Company, the employee will  
be reimbursed for any actual taxi expenses incurred by her to reach such location.  
This provision shall aot apply to female employees whose regular shift extends  
beyond 8:00 PM.  
### ARTICLE B-V  
### SENIORITY  
Section B5.1  
Within each operating group, regular employees under this Agreement with a  
Unit Seniority date of July 20, 1989 or easlier will have preference for the watch to  
which they are regularly assigned in accordance with their Unit Seniority unless, by  
mutual consent, the Company and the employee(s) affected agree otherwise. However,  
the above shal] not apply to any Traffic Coordinator regulariy assigned to the News  
Traffic Desk. In the event a Traffic Coordinator with a Unit Seniority date of July 20,  
1989 or earlier is involuntarily reassigned to the News Traffic Desk for a period in  
excess of three (3) weeks, such Coordinator shafi be assigned to work the same shift, if  
available, or the closest comparable shift ta the one which he or she worked prior to such  
mvoluntary assignment. Layoffs and rehiring of employees in the Traffic Department  
under Sections 11.6 and 11.7 shall be according to seniority at such office within the  
applicable group.  
Section B45,2  
[Deleted.]  
133  
   
### ARTICLE B-VI  
### COMPANY-WIDE EMPLOY MENT OPPORTUNITIES  
Section B6.1  
(a)  
(b)  
The Company will, in addition to complying with Section 3.3 of the Master  
Agreement, if time permits, notify the Sector President of the Union of  
opportunities for employment (except daily employment) in jobs covered by this  
Agreement. Any regular employee at another office of the Company who has  
been laid off by the Company and who has rehiring privileges pursuant to Section  
(1.7, upon notification to the Company of the employce’s interest in the  
employment opportunity will be interviewed at the office of his or her layoff and  
will be given good faith consideration for such employment opportunity. Such  
laid off employee, if rehired at another office of the Company, shall be credited at  
the office of his or her rehire with the employee’s Total Company and Pay  
Seniority, but not with Unit Seniority accrued at the office of his or her layoff.  
Such employee will also retain rehiring privileges and Unit Seniority at the office  
of his or her layoff for the applicable period specified in Section 11.7, which  
period shall not be affected by the employee’s employment at the office of his or  
her rehire; however, if such employee refuses to an employment  
opportunity (other than a vacation relief or other temporary employment  
opportunity) at the office of his or her layoff, the employee shall forfeit rehiring  
privileges and Unit Seniority at that office. If such employee accepts recall at the  
office of his or her layoff, the employee may return to such office and wil)  
receive credit for all seniority accrued at both offices. An employee who moves  
from one office to another pursuant to this Article shall bear all costs of such  
transfer, including the cost of moving to the office of his or her rehire and/or  
returning to the office of his or her layoff.  
This Article applies only when there are no employees with rehiring privileges at  
the office where the employment opportunity exists or when all employees with  
rehiring privileges at such office have refused or are unavailable for recall  
pursuant to Section 11.7.  
(See Sideletter GD.)  
134  
   
### D. DESK ASSISTANTS AGREEMENT  
### NEW YORK  
### ARTICLE D-]  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section D1.1  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement applies to all Desk Assistants  
employed by the News and Special Events and/or the Company in New  
York City.  
{See Sideletter CV}  
### ARTICLE D-II  
### DUTIES  
Section D2.!  
The duties of eraployees as defined heretofore include: the supplying of  
newswniters, editors, on-air personnel and any news desk supervisor with copy from wire  
services and all other sources; the monitoring and tending of News and Special Events  
Department teletype equipment, e.g., rapifax, facsimile and any other devices used in  
news material transmission and/or reception; the operation of computer terminals, ¢.g.,  
data bank and library terminals; the tending of telephones and Department switchboards;  
the filing of scripts; the listing of other programs; the ordering, obtaining, correlating,  
delivery and storage of (1) file tape and/or film and associated materials, including the  
performance of all functions associated with the operation of the CAT desk, (2) character  
generator script material, including the typing of tabs associated therewith, (3) graphics  
materials, and (4) show scripts, including the breaking and distribution of script pages;  
and the performance of general clerical duties for the news staff and simular related  
duties, al! under the direction and supervision of the news supervisor.  
Section D2.2  
The Company may assign an employee to act as a “Chief Desk Assistant”, and  
the duties of a Chief Desk Assistant may include, in addition to those defined above,  
arranging schedules for Desk Assistants; ordering and maintaining all supplies relating to  
the performance of job duties of all personnel specified in this Paragraph; attending  
editorial meetings; issuing such instructions as are necessary for the satisfactory  
completion of Desk Assistants’ duties; and, in general, providing guidance to the Desk  
Assistants in the normal! performance of duties.  
135  
Section  
Section D2.3  
The duties specified above may also be a part of the functions performed by  
other persons in the News and Special Events Department.  
### ARTICLE D-III  
### CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
Section D3.1  
The minimum wage scale of employees shall be as follows:  
$/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
Months 8/6/04 B/S/05 $/4/06  
0-6 $382.00 $393.50 $405.50 $417.50  
6-12 401.50 413.50 426.00 439.00  
12-18 475.00 489.50 304.00 319.00  
18 & Over $13.00 $28.50 $44.50 561.00  
8/9/63- 8/Ti04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
2/6/04 8/5/05 3/4/06 3/31/07  
Part-time $12.88 $13.28 $13.67 $14.08  
(per hour)  
Chief Desk Assistant - Additional $25.00 {increased to $35.00, effective September 27,  
2003) per week.  
Section D3.2  
The Company may designate any regular employee to act as a “Chief Desk  
Assistant” (it being understood that the Company may designate a single Chief Desk  
Assistant notwithstanding the separation of its radio and television newsrooms) and  
during such time as such employee acts in such capacity he or she shall be paid as  
specified above. In the event that any regular employee who has been designated to act  
as Chief Desk Assistant is absent for any reason and is replaced during such absence by  
another regular employee, such latter employee shall receive the Chief Desk Assistant fee  
as specified above in the employee's weekly salary during any week in which he or she  
acts in such capacity for three (3} or more days.  
136  
   
Section D3.3  
Desk Assistants shall receive an additional Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) fee per week  
(increased to Eighteen Dollars ($18.00) effective September 27, 2003) for the regular  
performance of Production Assistant duties as heretofore,  
Section D3.4  
Any employee who, as of March 2, (981, was receiving a wage rate in excess of  
the then applicable minimum, but not more than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) in excess of such  
minimum, shall receive the same dollar amount of overscale payment under this  
Agreement.  
Section D3.5  
Regular employees shall be paid biweekly and part-time and temporary  
employees shall be paid weekly.  
Section D3.6  
Employment as a Desk Assistant at either the Columbia Broadcasting System, the  
National Broadcasting Company or a comparable broadcasting company shall be deemed  
to be employment as a Desk Assistant by the Company for purposes of determining a  
regular employee's minimum applicable salary as specified above.  
### ARTICLE D-IV  
### REVISIONS  
Section D4.]  
With the consent of the Local Union, the Company and the Union shall have the  
right by mutual agreement to alter and vary the provisions of this Article as well as those  
of other  
Section D4.2  
(a) Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, letter agreements, grievance  
settlements or provisions of this Agreement to the the Company  
may, with the employee’s approval, unilaterally grant a leave of absence of  
any duration up to six (6) months to a Desk Assistant covered under this  
Agreement for the purpose of that Desk Assistant performing non-unit work  
in a temporary capacity. During such leave of absence, such Desk Assistant  
137  
Section D4.2 ‘ont’  
Shall continue to accrue unit seniority. The terms and conditions under which the  
desk assistant shall perform such non-unit work during such leave of absence  
shall be determined by the Company, or in the event the non-unit functions to be  
performed are covered by a collective bargaining agreement between the  
Company and another labor organization such other collective bargaining  
agreement shall apply.  
{b) Desk Assistants may be assigned to perform non-unit work, it being understood  
that such assignment neither expands nor contracts the Union’s jurisdiction  
hereunder, and that the assignment of such Desk Assistant ta such work shall not  
constitute a guarantee that such work will continue to be so assigned.  
### ARTICLE D-V  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
Section DS.1  
The Company may hire regular part-time Desk Assistants at the appropriate  
hourly sate provided for in Article D-[Il. Such employees shall be employed for no less  
than cight (8) hours in any work day. Articles VIII, X, Xl, XIV, XV, XIX, XXII  
except the Company’s Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, and shall not  
be applicable to such employees. However, such employees shall receive time and one-  
half (1-1/2) the appropriate hourly rate provided for in Article D-III for work in excess of  
eight (8) hours a day. Part-time Desk Assistants who have completed cight hundred  
(800) hours of work within one (1) calendar year shall be cligible to receive forty (40)  
hours of vacation with pay. Additionally, the Company may continue to employ part-  
time employees other than regular part-time employees in an emergency in the same  
manner and to a degree no greater than heretofore.  
Section DS.2  
It is not the intention of the Company to employ part-time employees for the  
purpose of reducing the staff. Should any question arise as to whether the Company ts  
not living up to this intention, the matter may be grieved pursuant to the provisions of  
Article XX.  
138  
### ARTICLE D-VI  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
Section  
The Company recognizes that employees must not be required to handle any  
equipment or material which is cumbersome or whose weight is excessive. The question  
as to whether a particular piece of equipment or material is cumbersome or excessive in  
weight under all circumstances may be submitted as an immediate grievance.  
### ARTICLE D-VIl  
### TRANSPORTATION FOR EMPLOYEES  
Section D7.!  
Any employee who is required to work at his or her home office tater than 8:00  
P.M. will, if requested, be furnished transportation to his or her home if it is within five  
(5) miles of the employee's place of employment or, if the emptoyee’s home is further  
away, to the public transportation facility normally available to such employce. If, m  
such event, transportation to such location is not furnished by the Company, the  
employee will be reimbursed for any actua] taxi expenses incurred by him or her to teach  
such location. This provision shall not apply to employees whose regular shift extends  
beyond $:00 PM.  
### ARTICLE D-VIII  
### Section D8.1  
The provisions of Section 7,7(b) shall not apply to employees covered by this  
Agreement.  
139  
### EF. NEWSWRITERS-PRODUCERS AGREEMENT  
### SAN FRANCISCO  
### ARTICLE F-I  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section F1.1  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement means anyone employed by the  
Company to render services in the Northern California area, as a Newswriter or Producer  
of radio or television news, Sports or special events programs, or as a combination of any  
or al! of those, excluding department heads, assistant department heads or other  
supervisory employees with authority to hire and fire employees included within the  
scape of the Agreement or effectively to recommend such action. Not included are  
persons who under individual contract with the Company write and broadcast their own  
material, and do not write material covered by this Agreement for others to broadcast.  
(See Sideletter FG.)  
Section F1,2  
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent persons employed in the News  
Department primarily to perform managerial and/or supervisorial duties from editing or  
rewriting copy. The News Director, Assistant News Director, Managing Editor or  
Executive Producer(s) may also write material for broadcast when such writing is not a  
substantial part of, and is incidental to, their overall managerial or supervisory duties or  
because of time constraints where NABET-CWA-represented Newswriters are not readily  
available in sufficient mambers, it is understood that the performance of the work  
described above is to supplement the work of NABET-CWA-represented Newswriters,  
and no newswriter on staff as of May 12, 2003 shall be laid off as a direct result of the  
Company's use of the aforementioned managers to write or edit of rewrite copy under  
this Section Ft.2.  
   
Section  
Nothing contained in this Agreement shail prevent persons who are employed at  
another office of the Company primarily for the purpose of preparing news material  
from performing all or a portion of the duties described herein at the San Francisco  
office for television or radio newspersons for whom they normally prepare such material.  
### ARTICLE F-Il  
### DUTIES  
Section F2,1 - Duties  
The duties of the employees hereunder include without limitation (i) the writing,  
Tewriting, condensing, processing, editing and/or otherwise treating of news for network  
and local radio and television programs; (ii) the preparation of scripts and/or outline, or  
“skeleton scripts", for news commentary, sports and special events network and local  
radio and television programs; (iii) the production of such news, news commentary,  
sports and special events programs; and (iv) such other additional duties as might, from  
time to time, normally be assigned to staff newswriters of the Company.  
Section F2.2 - Exclusive Assignments  
Only employees hereunder shall perform the duties specified in Section F2.1  
items (i), (ii) and (iii) above for programs which are originated by the Company with  
its KGO-AM and/or TV facilities, provided, however, that nothing herein contained  
shall prevent persons who, under individual contract with the Company, write and  
broadcast their own material, from performing such duties, and, provided further,  
that nothing herein contained shall limit or prevent the Company from having any of  
the production duties or functions herein contained performed by persons who are  
not Company employees on programs which are produced by a third party, as  
distinguished from the Company, provided that no Company employee shall perform  
any of the duties outlined above.  
(See Stipulation (10) and Sideletters CE, ER, FC, FG and FH.)  
Section F2.3 - Exclusive Services  
Employees hereunder shall not render their services to any employer other than  
the Company unless expressly authonzed by the Company in writing.  
141  
   
Section F2.4  
Section F2.4  
Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, in connection  
with live or tape Network programs or portions thereof produced by the Company which  
originate outside the permanent premises of the Company in the Northern California  
area, the Company shall not be required to assign any employee to perform any duties  
which are to be performed outside such premises or to perform any duties at such  
premises which involve the ordering or supervision of personnel or facilities utilized in  
connection with such programs or portions thereof. For the purpose of this provision  
only, “permanent premises” shall be deemed a fixed location owned by the Company or  
leased by the Company for a term in excess of three (3) months.  
Section F2.5  
With respect to those persons who, under individual contract with the Company,  
write and broadcast their own material pursuant to ihe exceptions recited in this  
Agreement, it is agreed that such persons shall inctude those who:  
(a) write material for their own broadcast which is subsequently broadcast by others;  
or  
(b) in multiple anchor situations, write for a co-anchor; or  
(c) asa reporter covering a story, write introductory, lead-in, and/or closing  
material to be broadcast by an anchor in the studio; or  
(d} have specialized knowledge regarding the particular subject matter of a story to  
be broadcast by others.  
Section F2.6  
Al the discretion of the Company, employees hereunder may be assigned to  
perform work on public affairs, documentary and other programs which are outside the  
Union's jurisdiction. The Company and the Union agree that any such assignments shall  
not, under any circumstances, constitute an expansion of existing jurisdiction pursuant to  
any provisions of the Master Agreement, nor shall the performance of such assignments  
by employees hereunder entitle any such employees to continue to be given such  
assignments. It is agreed that no claim or dispute involving an assignment made  
pursuant to this provision, or the failure to make such an assignment, shall be subject  
to arbitration.  
142  
   
Section F3.1 - Base Pay  
The Company may hire employees at rates above those herein established but will  
notify the Union’s San Francisco Loca) within seven (7) days after such employment  
### ARTICLE F-Il  
### CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
begins,  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
Years $/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
KGO-TY 8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06 3/31/07  
0-1 $556.00 $572.50 $589.50 $607.00  
1-2 851.00 876.50 903.00 930.00  
2-3 974.00 1003.00 1033.00 1064.00  
3-4 1085.00 1117.50 1151.00 1185.50  
4 & over 1372.00 1413.00 1455,5¢ 1499.00  
Years 8/9/03- 8/7/04- $/6/05- 8/5/06-  
KGO-AM 3/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06 3/31/07  
0-) $809,50 $834.00 $859.00 $885.00  
1-2 1084.00 1116.50 6150.00 {184,50  
2 & Over 1275,00 1313.50 1353.00 1393.50  
The parties agree to meet within sixty (60) days after ratification of the successor  
to the 1997-2003 Master Agreement to negotiate mutually acceptable terms and  
conditions of employment to encourage the Company to assign Producer-Newswriters to  
out of town travel assignments, Nothing herein shall be construed to require the  
Company to make any such assignments.  
(See Sideletter CE.)  
Section F3.2 - Fees  
News and News Special Events Writers will receive fees for writing any  
transcontinental network commercial news programs with the following  
minimum:  
143  
   
0 to 5 Minutes $5.00 $3.00  
Over 5 to 10 Minutes 8.25 12.50  
Over 50 to 15 Minutes 12.00 19.00  
Over 15 to 30 Minutes 19.00 23.50  
Over 30 Minutes 27.00 46.00  
Section F3.3 - Multiple Program Rate  
The multiple program rate applicable to the number of program broadcasts in  
Column A below shall be determined by multiplying the applicable rate for a single  
program by the appropnate fraction in Column B below:  
### A B  
Number of Program Applicable Multiple  
Broadcasis Per Week of Single Program Rate  
(-3/4  
2-1/4  
2-3/4  
a  
ta & tw bh  
Over five (5) per week, the multiple of single program raie in “B™ above  
increases by one-fourth (1/4) for each additional program,  
Section F3.4  
If any one commercial program is broadcast more than one (1) day per week, the  
Writer of such program shall be paid a fee at the multipte program rate, based on the  
number of times the program is broadcast during the week in question. If different  
Newswriters are assigned to such program on different days of the week, the fee shall be  
divided among them pro rata.  
Section F3.5  
Where two (2) or more programs of equal length sponsored by the same sponsor  
are broadcast on the same day, whether or not such programs are broadcast more than  
one (1) day per week, each Newswriter who writes more than one (1) such program on  
the same day during a particular week shall be paid for ali such programs a fee at the  
multiple program rate, based on the total number of such programs by the  
employee during such week.  
[aa  
   
Section F3.6 - Supervisory Duties  
If an employee is assigned to or is forced to assume the duties and  
responsibilities of a supervisory nature, due to the absence of the News Department  
Manager, and if such assignment or assumption of duties and responsibilities shall  
continue for the major portion of a workday, that employee shall be additionally  
compensated in the amount of ten percent (10%) of his or her base pay for all days  
involved.  
Section F3.7  
(a) Employment as a staff newswriter by any nationwide radio or television network  
shall be deemed employment as a Newswriter by the Company in determining  
the minimum salary applicable under the foregoing wage escalator to  
Newswriters hereafter engaged.  
(b) Employment for a pertod of three (3) years as:  
(1} 4 reporter or rewrite person On the staff of a metropolitan daily  
newspaper with a circulation of at least 100,000 copies, or  
(2) a newswriter on the staff of A.P, Reuters or U.PI., in any city of  
100,000 population or more, or  
(3) a newswriter on the staff of a 50,000 watt radio station in any city of  
100,000 population or more, or  
(4) a newswriter on the staff of any VHF television station in a city of  
100,000 population or more,  
shall entitle any Newswriter engaged hereunder to at least twelve (12) months’  
credit for purposes of applying the foregoing salary schedule.  
Section F3.8  
On all commercial local television news programs of fifteen (15) minutes or  
longer where pursuant to this Agreement a Newswriter-Producer is required to be  
assigned or is in fact assigned, the Company shall designate one (1) such employee as  
the Producer and pay him or her a fee in accordance with the followmg schedule:  
145  
   
Section F438 Contd  
Length of Program Producer Fee  
Fifteen (15) minutes or more  
but less than thirty (30) minutes $ 8.50  
Thirty (30) minutes or more  
but less than one (1) hour 13.00  
One (1) hour or longer 23,00  
In no event shall the Company be required to designate more than one (1)  
employee as the Producer of a program covered under this Paragraph, even though other  
employees may be performing production duties on such program, and the designation of  
an employee hereunder as a Producer shall in no event impair the right of the Company  
to require such employee to perform his or her normal duties during any period covered  
by such designation, Where more than one employee is assigned to a program which is  
subject to Producer fees hereunder, the Company will in good faith designate as  
Producer the employee who makes the greater contribution in producing the program.  
Nothing in this Paragraph shall be construed to atfect those provisions of this Agreement  
dealing with the duties and assignments of Newswriters-Producers.  
Section F3.9  
(a) If a member of the Unit receives a Producer fee for at feast one hundred thirty  
(13) days during the previous calendar year, the employee shall receive, in  
addition to regular vacation pay, the applicable Producer fee for each day of his  
or her scheduled vacation, but in no event more than five (5) times the applicable  
Producer fee per week while on vacation; provided that, if the Producer fee which  
the employee has received for the qualification pertod of at least one hundred  
thirty (130) days has varied in amount, the Producer fee which the employce shall  
receive for each day of his or her scheduled vacation shali be the average of the  
Producer fees received during such qualification period.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a members of the Unit assigned as a tocal TV  
station weekend program producers for'at least eighty (80) days during the  
previous calendar year shall receive, in addition to his or her regular vacation pay,  
his or her producing fees on a pro rata basis for each week of his or her  
scheduled vacation.  
146  
(b)  
Section F3.9(b)  
In no case shall a member of the Unit receive both an Assignment Editor fee and  
a Producer fee while on vacation. In the event that a member of the Unit is  
qualifted to receive both, he or she shal] receive while on vacation either the  
Assignment Editor fee or the Producer fee, whichever is greater.  
(See Sideletter FC.)  
Section F3.10  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
The duties of Desk Assistants may include the supplying of supervisars,  
Newswriters and reporters with copy from wire services and other sources, the  
monitoring and tending of teletype and unifax machines in the News  
Departments, the tending of telephones in the News Departments, the filing,  
pulling and delivery of scripts, the performance of general clerical duties for the  
News Staff and similar related duties. Personnel other than Desk Assistants may,  
to the extent heretofore, perform the duties listed above.  
The Company may hire part-time Desk Assistants at the appropriate hourly rate  
provided for in {c) below. Articles VIII, XI, XIV, XV, XVIH, XLX, XXII except  
the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, and XXIII shall not  
be applicable to such employees. However, such employees shalt receive time  
and one-half (1-1/2) the rate set forth below for work in excess of eight (8) hours  
a day and any work performed on New Year's Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial  
Day (last Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday  
after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. Part-time Desk Assistants who have  
completed eight hundred (800) hours of work within one (1) calendar year shall  
be eligible to receive forty (40) hours of vacation with pay.  
The minimum wage scales for Desk Assistants shall be as follows:  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- $/5/06-  
Months 8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06 331/07  
0-6 $387.50 $399.00 $411.00 $423.50  
6-12 401.50 413.50 426.00 439.00  
12-18 462.50 476.50 491.00 $05.50  
18 & over 513.00 528.50 544.50 $61.00  
Part-time/hour $12.83 $13.27 $13.67 $14.08  
Desk Assistants shall constitute a separate unit for purposes of layoff, rehiring  
and other provisions where Unit Seniority is applicable.  
147  
   
Section F3.)1  
Section F3.11  
(a)  
The Company shall have the right to hire persons on a daily basis at a daily rate  
equal to one-fifth (1/5th) of the applicable weekly wage scale (at any step of the  
escalator) for weekend or overnight shifts or in order to cover temporary  
workload requirements or the absence of an employee(s) covered by this  
Agreement. No regular staff newswriter employed at KGO-TV as of May 12,  
2003 shall be laid off during the term of the successor to the 1997-2003 Master  
Agreement as a direct result of the Company’s employment of daily hire  
newswriters for regular weekend or overnight shifts.  
Daily hires may be assigned to work at such rate any eight (8) consecutive hours  
within any twenty-four (24) consecutive hours, provided that for the hours  
referred to in Article X such persons shall receive additional compensation as  
provided in that Article. Any work performed by such persons in hours in excess  
of eight (8) hours in any day or in excess of forty (40) hours in a regular work  
weck (which shall be defined as beginning at 12:01 AM Saturday and continuing  
until 12:00 Midnight the following Friday, and any work performed on New  
Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day (last  
Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, the  
Friday after Thanksgiving Day and Chnstmas Day shall be regarded as overtime  
and compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay in  
quarter (1/4) hour segments. [n addition, any work performed by persons  
engaged on a daily basis an New Year's Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day,  
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be compensated at a rate equal to two  
(2) times their straight-time rate of pay for al] overtime hours worked on any such  
holiday. In no case shall overtime accrue on overtime.  
In addition, the Company may hire persons on a daily basis to work a minimum  
of four (4) hours on any day, at u rate of pay equal to one-eighth (1/8) the regular  
daily cate for each hour worked, which shall be the regular pay rate for such  
person. In the event such person is required to work in excess of six (6) hours,  
he or she shall be paid no less than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time, Daily  
hires will receive Fifty-five Dollars ($55.00) per day (increased to Sixty Dollars  
($60.00) effective the first day of the payroll period following June I, 2006) in  
lieu of benefits.  
(See Sideletters FD and FD-1.)  
148  
(b)  
Section F3, 1 Ifa)  
Each person hired on a daily basis who has worked eighty (80) days in a calendar  
year shail receive vacation pay in an amount equal to four percent (4%) of such  
employee's straight-time rate of pay for all straight-time hours worked in that  
calendar year, payable by separate check by February (5 of the next succeeding  
calendar year.  
(See Sideletter FB.)  
The Company will provide a daily hire employee with Company paid life  
insurance in the principal amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) on the  
following basis:  
{i} A daily hire employee who works more than eighty (80) days in a  
calendar year shail qualify for such life insurance policy for a single  
calendar year as set forth herein.  
(ii) The policy will be in effect for the calendar year immediately following  
the qualifying year as defined in subparagraph (1) above.  
(iii) Eligibility for this life insurance policy shall lapse and the employee shall  
have no coverage provided by the Company effective January in any  
calendar year immediately following a year in which the daily hire  
employee does not work more than eighty (80) days within a calendar year.  
(iv) Daily hire employees who qualify for this coverage as described above  
m calendar year 2003, shall be eligible for the above life insurance  
policy effective January 1, 2004.  
in the event the Company engages a person on a daily basis and thereafter  
cancels such engagement between 12:00 noon and 5:00 PM of the day preceding  
his or her assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to four (4) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for an eight (8) hour call, or longer, or Ovo (2) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for a four (4) hour call, If the engagement is canceled  
after 5:00 PM of the day preceding the assignment, said person shall be paid a  
sum equal to four (4) or eight (8) hours’ pay, whichever is applicable.  
The following provisions of the Master Agreement shall not apply to daily hires:  
Sections 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7, Articles VIII except Section 3.1 (the final sentence  
only), Xl except Section 11.9, through XV, Sections 16.4(b), 16.5, 16.6(a),  
16.1] and 16.12, Articles XVII through XIX, XXI, except the Company’s  
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, XXIII, XXIV and Articles XXVI  
through XXIX.  
149  
   
Section F312  
Section F3.12  
This provision shall be applicable to NABET-CWA-represented Newswniers-  
Producers (hereinafter “employees”) assigned, at the option, outside the  
Continental United States, Puerto Rico or Canada (herein called “overseas”’) to news  
field assignments using electronic cameras capable of being hand-held and associated  
equipment, The “Continental United States” for the purpose of this Section only,  
includes Alaska and Hawaii. Employees so assigned will, upon individual request, be  
excused from such assignments, provided, however, that the Company, after having made  
a reasonable effort to find a qualified replacement from the same office can find such a  
qualified replacement. The term “qualified” in this Section F3.12 shall include  
accreditation, the possession of a valid passport and/or visa, secunty clearances, etc. In  
_no event shall an employee be so assigned for a period in excess of thirty (30)  
consecutive days without his or her consent.  
### ARTICLE F-IV  
### AIR CREDITS  
Section F4.1  
The Company shall give video credit to the Newswriter for each television  
program he or she writes and audio credit to the Newswriter for each radio program he  
or she writes of fifteen (15) minutes or longer in duration, except where the special  
circumstances of the show make it inappropriate to give such credit, or where the  
Newswriter prefers otherwise, On a program broadcast two (2) or more times a week  
where written by the same Newswniter, credit need be given only once a week on such  
programs to said Newswriters. Where such credit is not given in any week, credits must  
be given twice in the following week. Where the exigencies of time make such credit  
impractical, failure to give credit shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE F-V  
### SCRIPTS AND PROGRAM IDEAS  
Section F5. 1  
Scripts and program ideas conceived, originated or prepared by an employee in  
the course of his or her employment by the Company, or submitted to the Company in  
discharge of duties previously assigned to an employee by the Company, shall be the sole  
and exclusive property of the Company, which shall have full and complete rights to  
such scripts and program ideas.  
150  
Section F5.2  
Section FS.2  
Scripts and program ideas conceived, originated or prepared by an employee  
outside the scope of his or her employment by the Company and not submitted in  
discharge of duties previously assigned to an employee of the Company shall not be  
owned by the Company, either in whole or in part, but the Company shall have a right of  
first refusal of such scripts and program ideas, which right shall expire (1) upon the  
Company's failure to exercise such nght with respect to cach offer within fourteen (14}  
days after receiving notice from the employee involved of 2 bona fide offer for such  
program idea or script and upon said employee's accepting said offer, or (ii) upon the  
expiration of fourtcen (14) days after termination of said employee's employment  
hereunder whichever one of said two events first occurs. In the event the Newswriter  
submits for the Company’s consideration any material owned by him or her pursuant to  
the above, at the time of such submission the Newswriter must advise the Company in  
writing whether he or she wishes to be assigned as the Producer of any program  
produced by the Company utilizing such material. Should the Company thereafter  
choose to acquire the rights to such material, the expressed wishes of the Newswriter  
regarding his or her assignment as Producer will be complied with at the trme such  
program is produced by the Company.  
### ARTICLE F-VI  
[Deleted.]  
### ARTICLE F-VII  
### Section F7.1  
In liew of the current Section 8.6(b), the following shall apply:  
Section 8.6(b) - work on a scheduled day off - an employee may be  
required to work on a scheduled day off for not less than a four (4)  
hour minimum call.  
(See Sideletter EN for Specific San Francisco Provisions.)  
131  
   
### K. NEWSWRITERS AGREEMENT  
### CHICAGO  
### ARTICLE K-l  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section K1.1  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement applies to all News and News  
Special Events Writers now or hereafter engaged by the Company at its Chicago office  
to write, rewrite, condense, process or edit news material. Not included are persons who  
under individual contract with the Company write and broadcast their own material, and  
do not write material covered by this Agreement for others to broadcast. Nothing  
contained in this Agreement shall prevent persons employed in the News Department  
primarily to perform managerial and/or supervisorial duties from editing or rewnting  
copy. The News Director, Assistant News Director, Managing Editor or Executive  
Producer(s) may also write material for broadcast when such writing is not a substantial  
part of, and is incidental to, their overall managerial or supervisory duties, or because of  
time constraints where NABET-C WA-represented Newswriters are not readily available  
in sufficiem numbers.  
[t is understood that the performance of the work described above is to  
supplement the work of NABET-CWaA-represented Newswriters and no Newswriter on  
staff as of May 12, 2003 shall be laid off as a direct result of the Company’s use of the  
aforementioned managers to write or edit or rewrite copy under this Section K!.!.  
The term “news material” as used in this Agreement includes sports news and  
weather news,  
Section K1.2  
Nothing contained in this Agrecment shalt prevent persons who are employed at  
another office of the Company primarily for the purpose of preparmg news material  
from performing all or a portion of the duties described herein at the Chicago office for  
television or radio newspersons for whom they normally prepare such material.  
152  
   
### ARTICLE K-Il  
### DUTIES  
Section K2.1  
News and News Special Events Writers shall write, edit and process all  
news material for news programs or auditions produced by the News and Special Events  
Department of the Company excluding programs or auditions prepared by persons who  
under individual contract with the Company write and broadcast their own material. As  
assigned, News and News Special Events Writers shall write continuity for news  
documentary programs produced by the News and Special Events Department of the  
Company,  
Section K2.2  
To perform such duties the Newswriters will correlate news sources such as  
teletypes, still picture transmitting machines, newspapers, magazines, and personal  
interviews by tclephone. Also in the performance of the above duties, the Newswriters  
may correlate recorded tape news material and/or filmed news material for use in part or  
as a whole in the news programs or news program auditions produced by the News  
Department of the Company in its Chicago office. Correlation of such material may  
include: (a) previewing recorded tape news material, supervising its editing and writing  
appropriate news continuity to make it an integral part of the news program or news  
program audition being prepared; (b) screening news film material, supervising its  
editing and writing appropriate news continuity to make it an integral part of the news  
program or news program audition being prepared. Excluded is recorded tape news  
material and/or filmed news material being used by persons who under individual  
contract with the Company, write and broadcast their own material.  
Nothing in this Agreement shall require a Newswriter to be present during the  
technical editing of material that is covered by this Agrecrnent if, in the opinion of  
management, the person performing such technical editing has the requisite know-ledge  
or information to carry out his assignment without such Newswriter’s presence.  
Section K2.3  
The Company shall designate five (5) members of the Unit each to serve as an  
“Assignment Editor,” who shal] perform “desk functions” as assigned by management.  
Desk functions may include, but shall not be limited to, making camera, reporting and  
writing assignments, checking out stories, directing bulletin coverage, editing news  
material and supervising news room activities. The Company in its discretion may  
153  
   
Section K2,3 Cont'd  
designate more than five (5) members of the Unit as an Assignment Editer and may  
change any employee designated as Assignment Editor, The Assignment Editor may  
perform in addition to his or her desk functions the duties specified in Section K1.) and  
Section K2.1. Except for illness in excess of one (1) week and vacations, the absence of  
a designated Assignment Editor shal] not require the assignment of another Assignment  
Editor even though desk functions are being performed. Nothing herein shall preclude  
management or supervisory personnel from performing any desk functions.  
(See Statement of Interpretation (Chicago and Los Angeles Newswriter Agreement) and  
Sideletter FC.)  
Section K2.4  
With respect to those persons who, under individual contract with the Company,  
write and broadcast their own material pursuant to the exceptions recited in this  
Agreement, it is agrecd that such persons shall include those who:  
(a) write material for their own broadcast which ts subsequently broadcast by  
others; or  
(b) in multipte anchor situations, write for a co-anchor; or  
{c) as a reporter covering a story, write introductory, lead-in, lead-out and/or closing  
material to be broadcast by an anchor in the studio; or  
(d) have specialized knowledge regarding the particular subject mater of a story to  
be broadcast by others.  
Section K2.5  
At the discretion of the Company, employees hereunder may be assigned to  
perform work on public affairs, documentary and other programs which are qutside the  
Union’s jurisdiction. The Company and the Union agree that any such assignments shal!  
not, under any circumstances, constitute an expansion of existing jurisdiction pursuani to  
any provisions of the Master Agreement, nor shall the performance of such assignments  
by employees hereunder entitle any such employees to continue to be given such  
assignments. is agreed that no claim or dispute involving an assignment made  
pursuant to this provision, or the failure to make such an assignment, shall be subject to  
arbitration,  
154  
### ARTICLE K-I01  
### CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
Section K3.]  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 3/6/05- 8/5/06-  
Years 8/6/04 8/5/05 $/4/06 3/31/07  
0-1 $556.00 $572.50 $589.50 $607.00  
1-2 851.00 876.50 903.00 930.00  
2-3 974.00 1,003.00 1,033.00 1,064.00  
3-4 1,085.00 1,ti7.50 1,151.00 1,185.50  
4 & over 1,372.00 1,413.00 1,455.50 1,499.00  
The parties agree to meet within sixty (60) days after ratification of the 2003-  
2007 Master Agreement to negotiate mutually acceptable terms and conditions of  
employment to encourage the Company to assign Newswriters to out of town travel  
assignments, Nothing herein shall be construed to require the Company to make any  
such assignments.  
Section K3.2  
For each day that a member of the Unit serves as an Assignment Editor, that  
employee shall receive in addition to his or her regular compensation the sum of Twenty  
Dollars ($20.00).  
If a member of the Unit receives the Assignment Editor fee for at least one  
hundred thirty (130) days during the previous calendar year, that employee shall receive,  
in addition to his or her regular vacation pay, the daily Assignment Editor fee for each  
day of the scheduled vacation, but in no event more than five (5) times the  
daily Assignment Editor fee per week while on vacation.  
Section K3,3  
(a) Employment as a staff newswriter by any nationwide radio or television network  
shall be deemed employment as a Newswriter by the Company in determining  
the minimum salary applicable under the foregoing wage escalator to  
Newswriters hereafter engaged.  
155  
   
Section K3.3(b)  
ib) Employment for a period of three (3) years as  
(J) a reporter or rewrite person on the staff of a metropolitan daily  
newspaper with a circulation of at least 100,000 copies, or  
{2) a newswniter on the staff of the Chicago City News Bureau, or on the  
staff of A.P., Reuters or in any city of 100,000 population or  
more, or  
{3) a newswriter on the staff of a $0,000 watt radio station in any City of  
100,000 population or more, or  
(4) a newswriter on the staff of any VHF television station in a city of  
100,000 population or more, or  
(5) a reporter on the staff of any VHF television station in a city of 100,000  
population or more,  
shall entitle any Newswriter engaged hereunder to al least twelve (12) months’  
credit for purposes of applying the foregoing salary schedule.  
Section K3.4 — Fees  
News and News Specia! Events Writers will receive fees for writing any  
transcontinental network commerciai news program with the following minimum:  
ngth of m Radio Fees Jelevision Fees  
0 to 5 Minutes $ 5.00 $ 8.00  
Over 5 to 10 Minutes 8.25 12.50  
Over 10 to 15 Minutes 12.00 19.06  
Over 15 to 30 Minutes 19.00 28.50  
Over 30 Minutes 27.00 46.00  
Section K3,5 - Multiple Program Rate  
The multiple program rate applicable to the number of program broadcasts in  
Column A below shall be determined by multiplying the applicable rate for a single  
program by the appropriate fraction in Column B below:  
156  
   
### A B  
Number of Program Applicable Multiple  
2 ]-3/4  
3 2-1/4  
4 2-3/4  
5 3  
Over five (5) per week the multiple of single program rate in “B” above increases  
by one-fourth (1/4) for each additional program.  
Section K3.6  
Hany one commercial prograrn is broadcast more than one (1) day per week, the  
Writer of such program shall be paid a fee at the multiple program rate, based on the  
number of times the program is broadcast during the week in question. If different  
Newswriters are assigned to such program on different days of the week, the fee shall be  
divided among them pro rata.  
Section K3.7  
Where two (2) or more programs of equal length sponsored by the same sponsor  
are broadcast on the same day, whether or not such programs are broadcast more than  
one {)) day per week, each Newswriter who writes more than one {1} such program on  
the same day during a particular week shall be paid for all such programs a fee at the  
multiple program rate, based on the total number of such programs written by the  
employee during such week.  
Section K3.8  
in the case of a news “insert” or a news “cut-in” in a prograrn, the amount of the fee  
is to be determined by the length of the “cut-in” or “insert,” not the length of the program.  
Section K3.9  
In no event shal] commercial fees be payable on any local or regional program.  
Section K3.10  
The above fees also will apply to news programs written by News and News  
Special Events Writers which are ordinanly written by others.  
tS?  
   
nection  
Section K3,11  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
If a Newswniter js assigned by the Company to serve as the Producer or  
Associate Producer of a commercial focal television program, he or she shail be  
paid a Producer fee or an Associate Producer fec in accordance with the  
following schedules:  
Length of Program Producer Fee  
Five (5) minutes $4.50  
More than five (5) minutes  
but tess than thirty (30) minutes 15.00  
Thirty (30) minutes or more  
but tess than one (1) hour 27,00  
One (1) hour or longer 42.00  
Length of Program Associate Producer Fee  
Thirty (30) minutes or more  
but less than one (1) hour $16.00  
One (1} hour or longer 15.00  
Nothing contained herein shal] be deemed to require that a Producer or an  
Associate Producer (i.¢., a Newswriter assigned as Producer or Associate  
Producer or any other person assigned as Producer or Associate Producer) must  
be assigned to each program, nor shall anything contained herein be deemed in  
any way to confer on members of the Bargaining Unit jurisdiction over producing  
news programs, or producing clements, portions, segments, inserts, stories or  
pieces for such programs,  
In no event will a Producer or Associate Producer fee be required for  
producing portions, segments, inserts, stories or pieces for programs,  
(fa member of the Unit receives a Producer or Associate Producer fee for at least  
one hundred thirty (130) days during the previous calendar year, the emptoyce  
shall receive, in addition to regular vacation pay, the applicable Producer or  
Associate Producer fee for each day of his or her scheduled vacation, but in no  
158  
(e)  
   
Section K3.1 ]id) Contd  
event more than five (5) times the applicable Producer or Associate Producer fee  
per week while on vacation; provided that, if the Producer or Associate Producer  
fee which the employee has received for the qualification period of at least one  
hundred thirty (130) days has varied in amount, the Producer or Associate  
Producer fee which the shal] receive for each day of his or her  
scheduled vacation shall be the average of the Producer or Associate Producer  
fees received during such qualification period.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a member of the Unit assigned as a local TV  
station weekend program producer for at least eighty (80) days during the  
previous calendar year shall receive, in addition to his or her regular vacation pay,  
his or her producing fees on a pro rata basis for each week of his or her  
scheduled vacation.  
Notwithstanding any practices, grievance settlements, arbitration awards, or any  
provisions of the Master Agreement, producers of news programs, elements,  
segments, inserts, stones or picces of news programs in Chicago may perform  
any and/or all of the duties of NABET-CWA-represented Newswniters in  
conjunction with the programs, program elements, segments, inserts, stories or  
pieces which they produce, or for special news programming. The foregoing  
shall apply to not more than three (3) specialty and/or segment producers (but no  
more than three (3) people in total) in any combination thereof. With respect to  
regularly scheduled news programs on WLS-TY, the provisions of the first  
sentence of this Section shall not apply to more than one (1) producer per  
program, except that program producers may perform all such duties of  
NABET-CWA-represented Newswriters with respect to program(s) produced by  
others, which programs are in a single calendar day in an adjacent news block to  
the particular program produced by another Program Producer (¢.g., the 10:00  
PM Program Producer could write for the 6:00 PM news, or the 4:00 PM  
Program Producer could write for the 6:00 PM news but the 10:00 PM Program  
Producer could not write for the 5:00 AM news on the following calendar day,  
nor could the 5:00 AM Program Producer wnite for the 10;00 PM news on the  
previous calendar day), when: (1) in the sole judgment it is necessary  
to do so; and (it) the writing of the program preducer does not substitute for the  
hiring or scheduling of a NABET-CWA-represented newswniter. On weekend  
programs on WLS-T¥ (weekends shall be Fnday and Saturday or Saturday and  
Sunday), producers not covered by this Agreement may only perform the duties  
of NABET-CWA-represented Newswmiters as set forth above to cover the  
absence of a NABET-CWA-represented Newswriter or in a news emergency or  
special coverage.  
E59  
Section Ki. Iz  
Section K3.12  
(a) The duties of Desk Assistants may include the supplying of supervisors,  
Newswriters and reporters with copy from wire services and other sources, the  
monitoring and tending of teletype and unifax machines in the News  
Departments, the tending of telephones in the News Departments, the filing,  
pulling and delivery of scripts, the performance of general clerical duties for the  
news staff and similar related duties. Personnel other than Desk Assistants may,  
to the extent heretofore, perform the duties listed above.  
(b) The Company may hire part-time Desk Assistants at the appropriate hourly rate  
provided for in (c} below. Articles VIII, XI, XIV, XV, XVIII, XIX, XX! except  
the Company's Accidental Death and Disrnemberment Policy, and shall not  
be applicable to such employees. However, such employees shall recetve time  
and one-half {1-1/2} the rate set forth below for work in excess of eight (8) hours  
a day and any work performed on New Year's Day, Presidents’ Day, Memoria]  
Day {last Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday  
after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. Part-time Desk Assistants who have  
completed eight hundred (800) hours of work within one (1) calendar year shall  
be eligible to receive forty (40) hours of vacation with pay.  
(c) The minimum wage scales for Desk Assistants shall be as follows:  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- $/6/05- 8/3/06-  
Months 8/6/04 8/5/05 3/4/06 3/31/07  
0-6 $387.50 $399,00 $4) 1.00 $423.50  
6-12 401.50 413.50 426.00 439.00  
12-18 462.50 476.50 491.00 505.50  
18 & over 513.00 528.50 544,50 561.00  
$12.88 $13.27 $13.67 $14.08  
(d) Desk Assistants shail constitute a separate unit for purposes of layoff, rehiring  
and other provisions where Unit Seniority is applicable.  
Section K3.13  
In no case shall a member of the Unit receive both a Desk Person fee and a  
Producer fee while on vacation, In the event that a member of the Unit is qualified to  
receive both, he or she shall receive while on vacation either the Desk Person fee or the  
Producer fee, whichever is greater.  
   
Section K3.14  
(a)  
The Company shail have the right to hire persons on a daily basis in order to  
cover temporary workload requirements or the absence of an employee(s} covered  
by this Agreement.  
The Settlement Agreement dated May 9 and 10, 2002, AC 99-05 and AC 00-05  
shall otherwise describe the rights to engage daily hire employees under the K  
Agreement but shall be non-cancellable for the term of the 2003-2007 Master  
Agreement.  
Employees hired on a daily basis shall be paid for each day worked a daily rate  
equal to one-ftfth (1/5) of the applicable weekly wage scale (at any step of the  
escalator) which shall be the regular rate of pay for daily hire employees as of  
that date, Daily hires may be assigned to work at such rate any eight (8)  
consecutive hours within any twenty-four (24) consecutive hours, provided that  
for the hours referred to in Article X such persons shall receive additional  
compensation as provided in that Article. Any work performed by such persons  
in hours in excess of eight (8} hours in any day or in excess of forty (40) hours in  
a regular work week (which shall be defined as beginning at 12:01 AM Saturday  
and continuing until 12:00 midnight the following Friday) and any work  
performed on New Year’s Day, Presidents’ Day, Martin Luther King, Jr., Day,  
Memorial Day (last Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Veteran's Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, the Fnday after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be  
regarded as overtime and compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the  
regular rate of pay in quarter (1/4) hour segments. In addition, any work  
performed by persons engaged on a daily basis on New Year's Day, Presidents’  
Day, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be compensated  
at a rate equal to two (2) times their straight-time rate of pay for all overtime  
hours worked on any such holiday. in no case shal] overtime accrue on overtime.  
In addition, the Company may hire persons on a daily basis to work a minimum  
of four (4) hours on any day, at a rate of pay equal to one-eighth (1/8) the regular  
daily rate for each hour worked, which shall be the regular pay rate for such  
person, In the event such person is required to work in excess of six (6) hours,  
he or she shall be paid no Sess than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time.  
Daily hires will receive Fifty-five Dollars ($55.00) per day {increased to Sixty  
Dollars ($60.00) effective the first day of the payroll pertod following June |,  
2006) in lieu of benefits.  
   
(See Sideletters FD and FD-1.)  
Each person hired on a daily basis who has worked eighty (80) days in a calendar  
year shall receive vacation pay in an amount equal to four percent (4%) of such  
employee's straight-time rate of pay for all straight-time hours worked in that  
calendar year, payable by separate check by February 15 of the next succeeding  
calendar year.  
(See Sideletter FB.)  
The Company will provide a daily hire employee with Company paid life  
insurance in the principal amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) on the  
following basis:  
(i} A daily hire employee who works more than eighty (80) days in a  
calendar year shall qualify for such life insurance policy for a single  
calendar year as set forth herein.  
{ti} The policy will be in effect for the calendar year immediately following  
the qualifying year as defined in subparagraph (i) above.  
(iii) Eligibility for this life insurance policy shall lapse and the employee  
shal] have no coverage provided by the Company effective January 1 in  
any calendar year immediately followimg a year in which the daily hire  
employee does not work more than eighty days within a calendar  
year.  
{iv) Daily hire employees who qualify for this coverage as described above  
in calendar year 2003, shall be eligible for the above life insurance  
policy effective January |, 2004.  
In the event the Company engages a person on a daily basis and thereafter  
cancels such engagement between 12:00 noon and 5:00 PM of the day preceding  
his or her assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to four (4) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for an eight (8) hour call, or longer, or two (2) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for a four (4) hour call. If the engagement is canceled  
after 5:00 PM of the day preceding the assignment, said person shall be paid a  
sum equa! to four (4) or eight (8) hours’ pay, whichever is applicable.  
162  
   
nsclion K3.14 (b)  
(b) The following provisions of the Master Agreement shal] not apply to daily hires:  
Sections 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7, Articles VIII except Section 8.1 (the final sentence  
only), Xi except Section 11.9, XI] through XV, Sections 16.4(b), 16.5, 16.6(a),  
16.11 and {6.12, Articles X VIE through XIX, XX], XXII except the Company's  
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, XXII], XXJV and Articles  
through XXIX,  
Section K3,15  
This provision shall be applicable to NABET-C WA-represented Newswriters  
{hereinafter “employees”) assigned, at the Company’s option, outside the Continental  
United States, Puerto Rico or Canada (herein called “overseas”) to news field  
assignments using clectronic cameras capable of being hand-held and associated  
equipment. The “Continental United States” for the purpose of this Section only,  
includes Alaska and Hawani. Employees so assigned will, upon individual request, be  
excused from such assignments, provided, however, that the Company, after having made  
a reasonable effort to find a qualified replacement from the same office can find such a  
qualified replacement, The term “qualtfted” in this Section K3.15 shall include  
accreditation, the possession of a valid passport and/or visa, security clearances, etc. In  
no event shall an employee be so assigned for a period in excess of thirty (30)  
consecutive days without his or her consent.  
### ARTICLE K-[V  
### CREDITS  
Section K4.1  
The Company shall give video credit to the Newswriter for each television  
program he or she writes and audio credit to the Newswriter for each radio program he  
or she writes of fifteen (£5) minutes or longer in duration, except where the special  
circumstances of the show make it inappropriate to give such credit, or where the  
Newswriter prefers otherwise. On a program broadcast two (2) or more times a week  
where written by the same Newswriter, credit need be given only once a week on such  
programs to said Newswriter. Where such credit is not given in any week, credits must  
be given twice in the following week. Where the exigencies of time make such credit  
impractical, failure to give credit shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement.  
The credit to a Newswriter will m no case be included in a general grouping of persons  
receiving credit on the program, unless the Newswriter is separately identified as such in  
the grouping.  
163  
### ARTICLE K-V  
### USE OF MATERIALS  
Section K5,]  
Ali materials wntten as part of the Newswriter’s assigned work on programs or  
auditions produced by the News Department of the Company shail belong to the  
Company which shall have sole ownership and cight and use of all such materials for all  
purposes for all time. All materials written on the Newswriter’s own time shall belong  
exclusively to the Newswriter who shall retain full title therein and who shall have the  
right at any time to use or dispose of such material for his or her own benefit and  
advantage, provided, however, that any material which is destined for use on any  
competing broadcasting station or competing broadcasting network shall not bear the  
Newswriter'’s name or Company connection. In the event the Newswriter submits for the  
consideration any material owned by him or her pursuant to the previous  
sentence, at the time of such submission the Newswriter must advise the Company in  
writing whether he or she wishes to be assigned as the Producer of any program -  
produced by the Company utilizing such material. Should the Company thereafler  
choose to acquire the rights to such material, the expressed wishes of the Newswriter  
regarding his or her assignment as Producer will be complied with at the time such  
program is produced by the Company.  
### ARTICLE K-VI  
### MEAL PERIODS  
Section K6. I  
There shall be no change from the present practice.  
[Deleted.]  
### O. NEWSWRITERS AGREEMENT  
### LOS ANGELES  
### ARTICLE O-I  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section O1.1  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement applies to all News and News  
Special Events Writers now or hereafter engaged by the Company at its Los Angeles  
office to write, rewrite, condense, process or edit news material. Not included are  
Newscasters and Commentators who under individual contract with the Company write  
and broadcast their own matenal, and do not write material covered by this Agreement  
for others to broadcast,  
The term “news material” as used in this Agreement tacludes sports news and  
weather news.  
Section 01,2  
Nothing contained in this Agreement shail prevent persons employed im the News  
Department primarily to perform managerial and/or supervisonal duties from editing, or  
rewriting copy for broadcast. The News Director, Assistant News Director, Managing  
Editor or Executive Producer(s} may also write material for broadcast when such writing  
is not a substantial part of, and is incidental to, their overall managerial or supervisory  
duties or because of time constraints where NABET-C WA-represented Newswriters are  
not readily available in sufficient numbers. It is understood that the performance of the  
work described above is to supplement the work of NABET-CWA-represented  
Newswriters and no newswriter on staff as of May 12, 2003 shall be laid off as a direct  
result of the Company's use of the aforementioned managers to write or edit or rewrite  
copy under this Section 01.2.  
Section 01.3  
Nothing contained in thts Agreement shal] prevent persons who are employed at  
another office of the Company primarily for the purpose of preparing news material  
from performing all or a portion of the duties described herein at the Los Angeles office  
for television or radio newspersons for whom they normally prepare such material.  
165  
### ARTICLE O-I  
### DUTIES  
Section 072.1  
News and News Special Events Writers shall write, edit and process all news  
matena! for news programs or auditions produced by the News and News Special Events  
Department of the Company excluding programs or auditions prepared by Newscasters  
and Commentators who normally prepare their own matenal for broadcast purposes.  
To perform such duties the Newswriters will correlate news sources such as  
teletypes, still picture transmitting machines, newspapers, magazines and personal  
interviews by telephones, as deemed necessary by management. Also in the  
performance of the above duties, the News and News Special Events Writers, as deemed  
necessary by management, may correlate recorded tape news material and/or filmed  
news material for use in part or as a whole in the news program or news program  
auditions produced by the News Department of the Company in its Los Angeles office.  
Correlation of such material may include:  
(a) previewing recorded tape news material, supervising its editing and writing  
appropriate news continuity to make it an integral part of the news program or  
news program audition being prepared.  
(b) screening news film material, supervising its editing, and writing appropriate  
news continuity to make it an integral part of the news program or news audition  
being prepared.  
Excluded is recorded tape news matenal and/or film news material being used by  
Newscasters and Commentators who, under individual contract with the Company, write  
and broadcast their own material.  
Section 02.2  
The Company shail designate six (6) members of the Unit to serve as an  
“Assignment Editor,” at least one (1} of whom shall be designated tn the television  
Network News Department, who shall perform “desk functions” as assigned by  
management. Desk functions may include, but shal] not be limited to, making camera,  
reporting and writing assignments, checking out stories, directing bulletin coverage,  
editing news material and supervising news room activities. The Company in its  
discretion may designate more than six (6) members of the Unit as Assignment  
{66  
  
Section 02.2 Cont'd  
Editor and may change any employee designated as Assignment Editor. The Assignment  
Editor may perform in addition to his or her desk functions the duties specified in  
Section O1.1 and Section 02.1. Except for illness in excess of one (1) week and  
vacations, the absence of a designated Assignment Editor shall not require the  
assignment of another Assignment Editor even though desk functions are being  
performed. Nothing herein shall preclude management or supervisory personnel from  
performing any desk functions.  
(See Statement of Interpretation, Chicago and Los Angeles Newswriters Agreements and  
Sideletter FC.)  
Section 02.3  
With respect to those persons who, under individual contract with the Company,  
write and broadcast their own material pursuant to the exceptions recited in this  
Agreement, it is agreed that such persons shal] include those who:  
{a) material for their own broadcast which is subsequently broadcast by others;  
### OT  
{b) in multiple anchor situations, write for a co-anchor; or  
(c) as a reporter covering a story, write introductory, lead-in, lead-out and/or closing  
material to be broadcast by an anchor in the studio. or  
(d) have specialized knowledge regarding the particular subject matter of a story to  
be broadcast by others.  
Section 02.4  
At the discretion of the Company, employees hereunder may be assigned to  
perform work on public affairs, documentary and other programs which are outside the  
jurisdiction. The Company and the Union agree that any such assignments shall  
not, under any circumstances, constitute an expansion of existing jurisdiction pursuant to  
any provisions of the Master Agreement, nor shall the performance of such assignments  
by employees hereunder entitle any such employees to continue to be given such  
assignments. [t is agreed that no claim or dispute involving an assignment made  
pursuant to this provision, or the failure to make such an assignment, shall be subject to  
arbitration.  
167  
### ARTICLE O-Ifi  
### CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
   
Section 03.1  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
$/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
Years 8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06 3/31/07  
0-1 $556.00 $572,50 $589,50 $607.00  
1-2 $51.50 $76.50 903.00 930.00  
2-3 974.00 1003.00 1033.00 1064.00  
3-4 1085.00 1117.50 1185.50  
4 & over 1372.00 1413.00 1455.50 1499.00  
The parties agree to meet within sixty (60) days after ratification of the successor  
to the 1997-2003 Master Agreement to negotiate mutually acceptable terms and  
conditions of employment to encourage the Company to assign Newswriters to out of  
town travel assignments. Nothing herein shall be construed to require the Company to  
make any such assignments.  
Section 03.2  
For each day that a member of the Unit serves as an Assignment Editor, he or she  
shall receive in addition to the employee's regular compensation the sum of Twenty  
Dollars ($20.00),  
If a member of the Unit receives the Assignment Editor fee for at least one  
hundred thirty (130) days during the previous calendar year, that employee shall receive,  
in addition to his or her regular vacation pay, the daily Assignment Editor fee for cach  
day of the employee's scheduled vacation, but in no event more than five (5) times the  
daily Assignment Editor fee per week while on vacation,  
168  
Section 03.3  
(a2) Employment as a staff newswniter by any nationwide radio or television network  
shall be deemed employment as a Newswriter by the Company in determining  
the minimum salary applicable under the foregoing wage escalator to  
Newswniters hereafter engaged.  
(b) Employment for a period of three (3) years as:  
(1} @ reporter or rewrite person on the staff of a metropolitan daily  
newspaper with a circulatton of at least 100,000 copies, or  
(2) @ newswriter on the staff of A.P, Reuters or U.P, in any city of  
100,000 population or more, or  
(3) a newswriter on the staff of a 50,000 watt radio station in any city of  
100,000 population or more, or  
(4) a newswriter on the staff of any VHF television station in a city of  
100,000 population or more,  
shalt entitle any Newswriter engaged hereunder to at least twelve (12) months’  
credit for purposes of applying the foregoing salary schedule.  
Section 03.4  
News and News Special Events Writers will receive fees for writing any  
transcontinental network commercial news programs with the following minimum:  
0 to 5 Minutes $ 5.00 $ 8.00  
Over 5 to 10 Minutes §.25 12.50  
Over 10 to 15 Minutes 12.00 19.00  
Over 15 to 30 Minutes 19.00 28.50  
Over 30 Minutes 27.00 46.00  
169  
Section Q3,5  
Section 03.5  
The multiple program rate applicable to the number of program broadcasts in  
Column A below shall be determined by multiplying the applicable rate for a single  
program by the appropriate fraction in Column B below:  
### A B  
Number of Program Applicable Mutltipte  
Broadcasts Pec Week of Single Program Rate  
2 1-3/4  
3 2-1/4  
4 2-3/4  
5 3  
Section 03.6  
Over five (5) per week, the multiple of single program rate in “B” above  
increases by one-fourth (1/41h) for each additional program. If any one (1) commercial  
program is broadcast more than one (1) day per weck, the Writer of such program shall  
be paid a fee at the multiple program rate, based on the number of times the program is  
broadcast during the week in question. If different Newswriters are assigned to such  
program on different days of ihe week, the fee shall be divided among them pro rata.  
Section 03,7  
Where two (2) or more programs of cqual length sponsored by the same sponsor  
are broadcast on the same day, whether or not such programs are broadcast more than  
one (1) day per week, each Newswriter who writes more than one (1} such program on  
the same day during a particular week shall be paid for all such programs a fee at the  
multiple program rate, bused on the total number of such programs written by the  
employee during such week.  
Section 03.8  
In the case of a news “insert” or a news “cut-in” in a program, the amount of  
the fee is to be determined by the length of the “cut-in” or “insert”, nol the length of  
the program.  
170  
   
Section 03.9  
Section 03.9  
In no event shall commercial fees be payable on any local or regional program.  
Section 03.10  
The above fees also will apply to news programs written by Newswriters which  
are ordinarily written by others.  
Section 03.11  
If a Newswriter is assigned by the Company to serve as the Producer of a commercial  
local television program, he or she shall be paid a Producer fee in accordance with the  
following schedule:  
Length of Program Producer Fee  
Five (5) minutes $4.50  
More than five (5) minutes  
but less than thirty (30) minutes 15.00  
Thirty (30) minutes or more  
less than one (1) hour 27.00  
One (1) hour or longer 42.00  
(b} Nothing contained herein shalt be deemed to require that a Producer (i.¢., a  
Newswniter assigned as Producer or any other person assigned as Producer) must  
be assigned to each program, nor shall anything contained herein be deemed in  
any way to confer on members of the Bargaining Unit jurisdiction over producing  
news programs, or producing elements, portions, segments, inserts, stories or  
pieces for such programs.  
(c) In no event will a Producer fee be required for producing elements, portions,  
segments, inserts, stories or pieces for programs.  
(d} Ifa member of the Unit receives a Producer fee for at least one hundred thirty  
(130) days during the previous calendar year, the employee shall receive, in  
addition to regular vacation pay, the applicable Producer fee for each day of his  
or her scheduled vacation, but tn no event more than five (5) times the  
  
Section 03,114) Cont'd  
(e)  
applicable Producer fee per week while on vacation; provided that, if the  
Producer fee which the employee has received for the qualification period of at  
least one hundred thirty (130) days has varied in amount, the Producer fee which  
the employee shall receive for each day of his or her scheduled vacation shall be  
the average of the Producer fees received during such qualification period.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a member of the Unit assigned as a local TV  
Station weekend program producers for at least cighty (80) days during the  
previous calendar year shall receive, in addition to his or her regular vacation pay,  
his or her producing fees on a pro rata basis for each week of his or her  
scheduled vacation.  
Notwithstanding any practices, grievance settlements, arbitration awards, or any  
provisions of the Master Agreement, producers af news programs, elements,  
segments, inserts, stories or pieces of news programs in Los Angeles may  
perform any and/or all of the duties of NABET-CWA-represented Newswriters in  
conjunction with the programs, program elements, segments, inserts, stories or  
pieces which they produce, or for special news programming. The foregoing  
shall apply to not more than three (3) specialty and/or segment producers (but not  
more than three (3) peopte in total) in any combination thereof. With respect to  
regularly scheduled news programs on KABC-TY, the provisions of the First  
sentence of this Section shall not apply to more than one (1) producer per  
program, except that program producers may perform all such duties of NABET-  
CWA-represented Newswriters with respect to program(s) produced by others,  
which programs are in a single calendar day tn an adjacent news block to the  
particular program produced by another Program Produver (e.g., the 11:00 PM  
Program Pruducer could write for the 6:00 PM news, or the 4:00 PM Program  
Producer could write for the 6:00 PM news but the 11:00 PM Program Producer  
could not write for the 5:00 AM news on the following calendar day, nor could  
the 5:00 AM Program Producer write for the 11:00 PM news on the previous  
calendar day), when: (i) in the sole judgment it is necessary to do so;  
and {ii} (he writing of the program producer does not substitute for the hiring or  
scheduling of a NABET-CWA-represented newswriter. On weekend programs on  
KABC-TY, producers not covered by thiscAgreement may only perform the duties  
of NABET-CWA-represented Newswriters as set forth above to cover the absence  
of a NABET-CWaA-represented Newswriter or in a news emergency or special  
coverage.  
172  
Section 03,12  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
The duties of Desk Assistants may include the supplying of Supervisors,  
Newswriters and reporters with copy from wire services and other sources,  
the monitoring and tending of teletype and unifax machines in the News  
Departmenis, the tending of telephones in the News Departments, the filing,  
pulling and delivery of scripts, the performance of general clerical duties for the  
news staff and similar related duties. Personne] other than Desk Assistants may,  
to the extent heretofore, perform the duties listed above.  
{See Sideletter FL)  
The Company may hire part-time Desk Assistants at the appropriate hourly rate  
provided for in (c} below. Articles Vil, Xf, XIV, XV XVUI, XLX, XXH except  
the Company’s Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, and XX#II shall not  
be applicable to such employees. However, such employees shall receive time  
and one-half (1-1/2) the rate set forth below for work in excess of eight (8) hours  
a day and any work performed on New Year’s Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial  
Day Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday  
after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. Part-time Desk Assistants who have  
completed eight hundred (800) hours of work within one (1) calendar year shall  
be eligible to receive forty (40) hours of vacation with pay.  
The minimum wage scales for Desk Assistants shal! be as follows:  
S/TH4- 8/6/05- $/5/06-  
Months 8/6/04 8/4/06 3/31/07  
0-6 $387.50 $399.00 $411.00 $423.50  
6-12 401.50 413.50 426.00 439.00  
12-18 462.50 476.50 491.00 505.50  
18 & Over 543.00 $28.50 544.50 561.00  
Part-time 12.88 13.27 13.67 14.08  
(per hour)  
Desk Assistants shal] constitute a separate unit for purposes of layoff, rehinng  
and other provisions where Unit Senionty is applicable.  
173  
Section 03,13  
Section 03.13  
In no case shall a member of the Unit receive both a Desk Person fee and a  
Producer fee while on vacation. In the event that a member of the Unit is qualified to  
receive both, he or she shall recerve while on vacatton either the Desk Person fee or the  
Producer fee, whichever is greater.  
  
(a)  
The Company shal] have the right to hire persons on a daily basis at KABC-TV  
for weekend or overnight shifts, and in all Los Angeles operations in order to  
cover temporary workload requirements or the absence of an employee(s) covered  
by this Agreement. No regular staff newswriters employed at KABC-TV as of  
May 12, 2003 shall be iaid off during the term of the successor to the 1997-2003  
Master Agreement as a direct result of the Company's employment of daily hire  
newswriters for regular weekend or overnight shifts.  
Employees hired on a daily basis shall be paid for each day worked a daily rate  
equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the applicable weekly wage scale (at any step of the  
escalator) which shall be the regular rate of pay for daily hire employees as of  
that date). Daily hires may be assigned to work at such rate any eight  
consecutive hours within any twenty-four (24) consecutive hours, provided that  
for the hours referred to in Article X such persons shall receive additional  
compensation as provided in that Article. Any work performed by such persons  
in hours in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or in excess of forty (40) hours in  
a regular work week (which shat] be defined as beginning at !2:01 AM Saturday  
and continuing unti! 12:00 Midnight the following Friday) and any work  
performed on New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day,  
Memorial Day (last Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Vetcran’s Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be  
regarded as overtime and compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the  
regular rate of pay in quarter (1/4) hour segments. In addition, any work  
performed by persons engaged on a daily basis on New Year's Day, Presidents’  
Day, Memonal Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shal] be compensated  
at a rate equal to two (2) times their straight-time rate of pay for all overtime  
hours worked on any such holiday, In no case shall overtime accrue on overtime,  
174  
Section 03.14(a) Cont'd  
In addition, the Company may hire persons on a daily basis to work a minimum  
of four (4) hours on any day, at a rate of pay equal to one-eighth (1/8) the regular  
daily rate for each hour worked, which shall-be the regular pay rate for such  
person, In the event such person is required to work in excess of six (6) hours,  
he or she shall be paid no Jess than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time,  
Daily hires will receive Fifty-five Dollars ($55.00) per day (increased to Sixty  
Dollars ($60.00) effective the first day of the payroll period following June I,  
2006) in lieu of benefits.  
(See Sideletters FD and FD-1.)  
Each person hired on a daily basis who has worked eighty (80) days in u calendar  
year shalt receive vacation pay in an amount equal to four percent (4%) of such  
employee's straight-time rate of pay for alt straight-time hours worked in that  
calendar year, payable by separate check by February [5 of the next succeeding  
calendar year.  
(See Sideletter FB.)  
The Company will provide a daily hire employee with Company paid life  
insurance in the principal amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) on the  
following basis:  
{i} A daily hire employee who works more than eighty (80) days in a  
calendar year shall qualify for such life insurance policy for a single  
calendar year as set forth herein.  
(ii) The policy will be in effect for the calendar year immediately following  
the qualifying year as defined in subparagraph (1) above.  
(ili) Eligibility for this life insurance policy shall lapse and the employee  
shall have no coverage provided by the Company effective January 1 in  
any calendar year immediately following a year in which the daily hire  
employee does not work more than eighty days within a calendar  
year.  
(iv) Daily hire employees who qualify for this coverage as described above  
in calendar year 2003, shall be eligible for the above life insurance  
policy effective January 1, 2004.  
175  
Section 03.14(a). Cont'd  
In the event the Company engages a person on a daily basis and thereafter  
cancels such engagement between 12:00 noon and 5:00 PM of the day preceding  
his or her assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to four (4) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for an eight (8) hour call, or tonger, or ¢wo (2) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for a four (4) hour call. If the engagement is canceled  
after 5:00 PM of the day preceding the assignment, said person shall be paid a  
sum equal to four (4) or eight (8) hours’ pay, whichever is applicable.  
(b} The following provisions of the Master Agreement shall not apply to daily hires:  
Sections 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7, Articles Vill except Section 8.1 {the final sentence  
only), Xl except Section 11.9, XII through XV, Sections 16.4(b), 16.5, 16.6(a),  
16.11 and 16.12, Articles XVEI through XIX, XX], XCXII except the Company's  
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, XXIII, XXIV and Articles XXVI  
through XXiX.  
Section 03.15  
This provision shal! be applicable to NABET-CWA-represented Newswriters  
(hereinafter “employees”) assigned, ai the option, outside the Continental  
United States, Puerto Rico or Canada {herein called “overseas”) to news field  
assignments using electronic cameras capable of being hand-held and associated  
equipment. The “Continental United States” for the purpose of this Section only,  
includes Alaska and Hawaii. so assigned will, upon individual request, be  
excused from such assignments, provided, however, that the Company, after having made  
a reasonable effort to find a qualified replacement from the same office, can find such a  
qualified replacement, The term “qualified” in this Section 03.15 shall include  
accreditation, the possession of « valid passport and/or visa, security clearances, etc. [n  
no event shall an employee be so assigned for a period in excess of thirty (30)  
consecutive days without his or her consent.  
### ARTICLE 0-IV  
### AIR CREDITS  
Section O4. |  
The Company shall give vidco credit to the Newswriter for each television  
program he or she writes and audio credit to the Newswniter for cach radio program he  
or she writes of fifteen (15) minutes or longer in duration, except where the special  
circumstances of the show make it inappropriate to give such credit, or where the  
Newswniter prefers otherwise. On a program broadcast two (2) or more times a  
176  
   
week where written by the same Newswriter, credit need be given only once a week on  
such programs to said Newswriter. Where such credit is not given in any week, credits  
must be given twice in the following week. Where the exigencies of time make such  
credit impractical, failure to give credit shall not be considered a breach of this  
Agreement. The credit to a Newswriter will in no case be included in a general grouping  
of persons receiving credit on the program, unless the Newswnier is separately identified  
as such in the grouping.  
### ARTICLE 0-¥V  
### USE OF MATERIALS  
Section 05.1  
All materials written as part of the Newswriter’s assigned work on programs or  
auditions produced by the News Department of the Company shall belong to the  
Company which shall have sole ownership and right and use of ali such materials for all  
purposes for all time. All materials written on the Newswriter’s own time shail belong  
to the Newswriter who shall retain full title therein and who shall have the  
right at any time to use or dispose of such material for his or her own benefit and  
advantage, provided, however, that any material which ts destined for use on any  
competing broadcasting station or competing broadcasting network shall not bear the  
Newswriter’s name or Company connection. In the event the Newswriter submits for the  
Company's consideration any matenal owned by him or her pursuant to the previous  
sentence, at the time of such submission the Newswriter must advise the Company in  
writing whether he or she wishes to be assigned as the Producer of any program  
produced by the Company utilizing the material. Should the Company thereafter choose  
to acquire the rights to such material, the expressed wishes of the Newswriter regarding  
his or her assignment as Producer will be complied with at the time such program is  
produced by the Company.  
177  
   
### P PLANT MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT  
### LOS ANGELES  
### ARTICLE P-i  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section Pi.1  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement applies to all Electricians,  
Carpenters, Plant Maintenance employees, General Maintenance Persons, Gardeners,  
AM Studio Set-up Persons and Building Maintenance Persons employed by the  
Company in Los Angeles.  
(See Sideletter ES.)  
### ARTICLE  
### DUTIES  
Section P2.1  
Building Maintenance Persons shall perform general utility duties {including  
minor plumbing) in the buildings and plants of the Company excluding contracted  
janitorial services,  
Section P2.2  
Painters shall perform the painting work in connection with maintenance and  
repair of the buildings and premises other than major repairs and major installations.  
Employces in this classification may be assigned interchangeably in the event of  
unscheduled occurrences when members of only one (1) trade are assigned on weekends  
and on the holidays named in Section 18.1. In the event the Company institutes an  
overnight shift, the parties agree to discuss the question of interchangeability during such  
shift.  
{See Sideletter DY.)  
178  
Section P2.3  
Electricians shalt perform the electrical and plumbing work in connection with  
maintenance and repair of the and premises other than major repairs and major  
installations. In addition, Electricians shall perform the duties of operation and  
maintenance of air conditioning equipment, as distinguished frorn installatians or major  
repairs. Employees im this classtftcation may be assigned to the duties set forth in  
Section P2.2 above and Section P2.7 below in the event of unscheduled occurrences  
when members of only one (1) trade are assigned on weekends and on the holidays  
named in Section 18.1.  
Section P2.4  
General Maintenance Persons shall perform handyman electrical, carpentry,  
painting, plumbing, gardening and related work in the buildings and premises of the  
Company, excepting at the Television Center, and may also perform the duties of the  
Building Maintenance Persons hereunder. Such duties need not be performed under the  
direct supervision of a Plant Maintenance Person. Handyman work is simple, not  
requiring the skill of a journeyman.  
Section P2.5  
Gardeners shall perform duties in connection with the planting and maintenance  
(including minor plumbing) of grass, trees, flowers, shrubbery and other vegetation on  
the Company’s premises.  
(See Sideletter DY.)  
Section P2.6  
Switching air conditioning equipment on and off, or adjusting thermostats as  
distinguished from repairing and maintaining same, shall not be considered as the  
repair or maintenance of air conditioning equipment under Section P2.3 above.  
Section P2.7  
Carpenters shall perform the carpentry work and plumbing in connection with  
Maintenance and repair of the building premises, other than major repairs and major  
installations. Employees in this classification may be assigned to the duties sct forth in  
Section P2.2 above in the event of unscheduled occurrences when members of only one  
(1) trade are assigned on weekends and on the holidays named in Section 18.1.  
179  
Section P2.8  
Section P2.8  
As used herein, the terms “buildings,” “premises” and “plants” of the Company  
shall only include those fixed locations owned by the Company or leased by the  
Company for a term in excess of two (2) months. The Company agrees to notify the  
Union of the acquisition or lease of such fixed locations.  
### ARTICLE P-III  
### CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
Section P3.1  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
Building Mai  
8$/9/03- $/7/04- 3/6/05- 8/5/06-  
Years 8/6/04 8/5/05 $/4/06  
0-1 $522.50 $538.00 $554.00 $570.50  
1-2 $79.50 597,00 615.00 633,50  
2-3 624.50 643.00 662.50 682.50  
3 & Over 712.00 733,50 755.50 778.00  
Gardeners  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- $/5/06-  
Years $/6/04 8/5/05 $/4/06 1/07  
0-1 $587.00 $604.50 $622.50 $641.00  
]-2 656.50 676,00 696.50 717.50  
2<3 739.50 761.50 784.50 808.00  
3 & Over 856.00 881.50 908.00 935.00  
180  
General Maintenance Persons  
Xears  
0-1  
1-2  
2-3  
3 & Over  
Painters  
Years  
0-1  
1-2  
2-3  
3 & Over  
  
Years  
0-1  
1-2  
2-3  
3 & Over  
Years  
0-1  
1-2  
2-3  
3 & Over  
8/9/03-  
8/6/04  
$587.00  
656.50  
739.50  
$56.00  
8/9/03-  
8/6/04  
$739.50  
831.50  
902,00  
998.00  
$/9/03-  
8/6/04  
$753.50  
843.50  
918,00  
1048.50  
8/9/03-  
8/6/04  
$790.50  
885.50  
965.50  
1076.50  
$/7/04-  
3/3/05  
$604.50  
676.00  
761,50  
881.50  
8/7/04-  
8/5/05  
$761.50  
856.50  
929.00  
1028.00  
8/7/04-  
$776.00  
869.00  
945.50  
1080.00  
$/7/04-  
  
$814.00  
912.00  
994.50  
1109.00  
18?  
8/6/05-  
8/4/06  
$622.50  
696.50  
784.50  
908.00  
8/6/05-  
8/4/06  
$784.50  
$82.00  
957.00  
1059.00  
$/6/05-  
$/4/06  
$799.50  
895.00  
974.00  
1112.50  
$/6/05-  
8/4/06  
$338.50  
939.50  
1024.50  
1142.50  
$/5/06-  
3/31/07  
$641.00  
717.50  
808.00  
935.00  
8/5/06-  
3/31/07  
$808,00  
908.50  
986.00  
1091.06  
$/5/06-  
3/31/07  
$3823.50  
922.00  
1003.00  
1146.00  
8/5/06-  
331/07  
$863.50  
967.50  
1055.00  
1177.00  
Section P32  
Section P3.2  
The weekly salary of a Lead Person for any job classification set forth in Section  
P4,] hereof shall be thirteen percent (13%) above the highest step of the escalator of  
such job classification, provided that the Lead Person for the Building Maintenance  
Persons shall be paid thirteen percent (13%) above the highest step of the escalator of the  
AM Set-up and General Mainienance Persons.  
Section P3.3  
(a)  
The Company shall have the right to hire persons on a daily basis in order to  
cover temporary workload requirements or the absence of an employee(s) covered  
by this Agreement.  
Employees hired on a daily basis shall be paid for each day worked a daily rate  
equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the applicable weekly wage scale (at any step of the  
escalator) which shail be the regular rate of pay for daily hire employees as of  
that date. Daily hires may be assigned to work at such rate any eight (8) f  
consecutive hours within any twenty-four (24) consecutive hours, provided that:  
for the hours referred to in Article X such persons shal] receive additional  
compensation as provided in that Article. Any work performed by such persons  
in hours in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or in excess of forty (40) hours in  
a regular work week (which shail be defined us beginning at 12:01 AM Saturday  
and continuing until 12:00 Midnight the following Friday), and any work  
performed on New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day,  
Memorial Day (last Munday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be  
regarded as overtime and compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the  
regular rate of pay in quarter (1/4) hour segments. In addition, any work  
performed by persons engaged on a daily basis on New Year's Day, Presidents’  
Day, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be compensated  
at a rate equal io two (2) times their straight-time rate of pay for all overtime  
hours worked on any such holiday. [n no case shal] overtime accrue on overtime.  
Daily hires will receive Fifty-five Dollars ($55.00) per day (increased 10 Sixty  
Dollars ($60.00) effective the first day of the payroll period following June 1,  
2006) in lieu of benefits,  
(Sideletters FD and FD-1.)  
182  
(b)  
Section P3.3{a) Cont'd  
Each person hired on a daily basis who has worked eighty (80) days in a calendar  
year shall receive vacation pay in an amount equal to four percent (4%) of such  
employee’s straight-time rate of pay for all straight-time hours worked in that  
calendar year, payable by separate check by February 15 of the next succeeding  
calendar year.  
(Sideletter FB.)  
The Company will provide a daily hire employee with Company paid life  
insurance in the principal amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) on the  
following basis:  
(i) A daily hire employee who works more than eighty (80) days in a  
calendar year shall qualify for such life msurance policy for a single  
calendar year as set forth herein.  
{ti} The policy will be in effect for the calendar ycar immediately following  
the qualifying year as defined in subparagraph (i) above.  
(iii) Eligibility for this life insurance policy shall lapse and the  
employee shall have no coverage provided by the Company effective  
January | in any calendar year immediately following @ year in which  
the daily hire employee does noi work more than eighty (80) days  
within a calendar year.  
{iv} Daily hire employces who qualify for this coverage as described above  
in calendar year 2003, shall be eligible for the above life insurance  
policy effective January 1, 2004,  
in the event the Company engages a person on a daily basis and thereafter  
cancels such engagement between 12:00 noon and 5:00 PM of the day preceding  
his or her assignment, said person shalt be paid a sun equal to four (4) hours’  
pay. If the engagement is canceled after 5:00 PM of the day preceding the  
assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to eight (8) hours’ pay.  
The following provisions of the’Master Agreement shall not apply to  
daily hires: Sections 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7, Articles VII except Section (the final  
sentence only}, XJ] except Section 11.9, XII through XV, Sectians 16.4(b), 16.5,  
16.6(a), 16.11 and 16.12, Articles XVII through XIX, XXI, XXI1 except the  
Company's Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, XXiI], XXIV and  
Articles through XXIX.  
183  
   
### ARTICLE P-1V  
### LEAD PERSONS  
Section Pd.  
There shall be a working Lead Person for each of the following groups in which  
four (4) or more employees covered by this Agreement are employed: (1) Building  
Maintenance Persons; (2) Carpenters; (3) Plant Maintenance Persons - Painters; (4}  
Electricians; and (5) Gardeners. Nothing herein shal! preclude management supervisors  
from issuing instructions and/or work assignments to employees hereunder. When a  
working Lead Person is on vacation or leave of absence, or is absent for a full day due to  
iliness, he or she shall be replaced by one (1) of the employees in his or her group who  
shall be upgraded and paid the normal wage rate for such Lead Person.  
### ARTICLE P-V  
### SENIORITY  
Section P§.1  
Each of the job classifications above shall constitute a separate unit for purposes  
of layoff, rehiring and other provisions where Unit Seniority is applicable. [t is  
understood that Painters and Plumbers shall be considered separate job classifications  
and each shall therefore constitute a separate unit for the purposes of this Section.  
### ARTICLE P-VI  
### VACATIONS  
Section P6.)  
In lieu of Section 19.10, vacation periods for employees cavered by Article P will  
be scheduled to fal! within the period from January ! through_December 31. Vacation  
periods shall be determined and posted by December | of the preceding year, and shall  
not be changed except by muni! consent of the Company and the local committee.  
Prior to December | of each preceding year, the local management and Jocal committee  
shall confer for the purpose of discussing vacation scheduling. Vacation preferences  
within the job classification to which the employees are assigned shall be given to  
employees on the basis of Unit Seniority. No employee covered by these agreements  
shall be required to give up his or her free choice of vacation (during the period as  
shown above) to any person not covered by these agreements.  
184  
### R. PUBLICISTS AGREEMENT  
### NEW YORK  
### ARTICLE R-I  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section Ri.1  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement applies to all press  
representatives, jumor press representatives, publicity rewrite men, column planters and  
assistant magazine editors (hereinafter referred to as Publicists and Junior Publicists),  
employed by the Company in New York City, excluding supervisors. The duties of  
employees hereunder shall be interchangeable.  
The practice of “column planting” by Company employees not covered by this  
Agreement shall not be increased in a degree or in a manner as to adversely affect the  
continued performance of this work by employees covered by this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE R-il  
### CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
Section R2.1  
The minimum wages of employees shall be as follows:  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
Publicists  
$/9/03- $/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
Years 8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/05  
0-1 $793.60 $817.00 $841.50 $866.50  
1-2 922.50 950.00 978.50 1,008.00  
2-3 1,075.00 1,141.00 1,175.00  
3-4 1,147.00 1,181.50 1,217.00 1,253.50  
4 & over 1,275.00 1,313.50 1,353.00 1,393.50  
185  
   
unior Pubtici  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
Years 8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06 3/31/07  
0-1 $656.50 $676.00 $696.50 $717.50  
1-2 714.00 735.50 757.50 780.00  
A Junior Publicist shall be advanced to Publicist no later than two {2) years from  
the date of employment as a Junior Publicist.  
There may be one (1) Junior Publicist employed by the Company in the New  
York office, provided no Publicist in this Bargaining Unit is on layoff and has recall  
  
Section R2.2  
(a)  
The Company shall have the right to hire persons on a daily basis in order to  
cover temporary workload requirements or the absence of an employce(s) covered  
by this Agreement.  
Employees hired on a daily basis shall be paid for each day worked a daily rate  
equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the applicable weekly wage scale {at any step of the  
escalator) which shall be the regular cate of pay for daily hire employces as of  
that date. Daily hires may be assigned to work at such rate any eight (8)  
consecutive hours within any twenty-four (24) hours, provided that  
for the hours referred to in Article X such persons shall receive additional  
compensation as provided in that Article. Any work performed by such persons  
in hours in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or in excess of forty (40) hours in  
a regular work week (which shall be defined as beginning at 12:01 AM Saturday  
and continuing until 12:00 Midnight the following Friday} and any work  
performed on New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day,  
Memorial Day (last Monday in May), July Fourth, Labor Day, Veteran's Day,  
Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be  
regarded as overtime and compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the  
regular rate of pay in quarter (4/4) hour segments. In addition, any work  
performed by persons engaged on a daily basis on New Year’s Day, Presidents’  
Day, Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be compensated  
at a rate equal to two (2) times their straight-time rate of pay for all overtime  
hours worked on any such holiday, In no case shall overtime accrue on overtime.  
136  
Daily hires will receive Fifty-five Dollars ($55.00) per day (increased to Sixty  
Dollars ($60.00) effective the first day of the payroll period following June |,  
2006} in liew of benefits.  
(See Sideletters FD and FD-t.)  
Each person hired on a daily basis who has worked eighty (80) days in a calendar  
year shail receive vacation pay in an amount equal to four percent (4%) of such  
straight-time rate of pay for all straight-time hours worked in that  
calendar year, payable by separate check by February 15 of the next succeeding  
calendar year.  
(See Sideletter FB.)  
The Company will provide a daily hire employee with Company paid life  
insurance in the principal amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) on the  
following basis:  
(i) A daily hire employee who works more than eighty (80) days in a  
calendar year shal! qualify for such life insurance policy for a single  
calendar year as set forth herein  
(li) The policy will be in effect for the calendar year immediately following  
the qualifying year as defined in subparagraph (1) above.  
(iii) Eligibility for this life insurance policy shall lapse and the employec  
shall have no caverage provided by the Company effective January | in  
any calendar year immediately following a year in which the daily hire  
employee does not work more than eighty (80) days within a calendar  
year,  
{iv) Daily hire employees who qualify for this coverage as described above  
in calendar year 2003, shall be eligible for the above life insurance  
policy effective January 1, 2004.  
In the event the Company engages a person on a daily basis and thereafter  
cancels such engagement between 12:00 noon and 5:00 PM of the day preceding  
his or her assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to four (4) hours’  
pay, Ifthe engagement is canceled after 5:00 PM of the day preceding the  
assignment, said person shall be paid a sum equal to eight (8) hours’ pay.  
187  
section R2,2ib}  
{b)  
The following provisions of the Master Agreement shall not apply to daily hires:  
Sections 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7, Articles VIII except Section 8.1 (the final sentence  
only), XI except Section 11.9, XII through XV, Sections 16.4(b), 16.5, 16.6(a),  
16.41 and 16.12, Articles XVII through XIX, XX1, XXII except the Company’s  
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy, XXIII, XXIV and Articles XXV]1  
through XXIX,  
### ARTICLE R-f!  
### WORK SCHEDULE, OVERTIME AND PENALTIES  
Section R3.1  
In liew of Article VII of the Master Agreement, which shall not be applicable,  
the following shall apply:  
The employees shall normally work the Company's regular office hours, subject  
to the other provisions of this Section. It is the intent of the parties that the  
scheduling of employees outside the norma! office hours shal) not be expanded  
beyond present practices in this respect, provided that nothing shal! prohibit the  
Company from scheduling emp!oyees outside the regular office hours in order to  
provide coverage by employees of events or shows that occur outside of such  
regular office hours. The work week of employees shall begin at 12:01 AM  
Monday and end at 12:00 Midnight on Sunday. All hours worked in excess of  
forty (40) hours during any five (5) consecutive days in such work week  
{inclusive of a meal period not in excess of one (1) hour on each such day) shall  
be regarded as overtime and compensated as such. An employee who works on a  
sixth (6th) or a seventh (7th) day will be paid for at least eight (8) hours at the  
overtime rate.  
The overtime rate per hour shail be computed by dividing the employee's regular  
rate of pay by forty (40) and multiplying the quotient by one and one-half (t-1/2),  
and overtime shall be computed in quarter (1/4) hour segments. In no case shall  
overtime accrue on overtime.  
[f, in the opinion of an employee, he or she is required to work an unreasonable  
amount of overtime or is given an unreasonable workload, the matter may be  
taken up under the grievance machinery.  
188  
   
### ARTICLE R-IV  
### HOLIDAYS  
Section R4.1  
The following shall be deemed to be the holidays under this provision,  
irrespective of the day of the week on which the holiday may fall: NEW YEAR’S DAY,  
### MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. DAY, PRESIDENTS’ DAY, MEMORIAL DAY {last  
### Monday in May), JULY FOURTH, LABOR DAY, THANKSGIVING DAY, THE DAY  
AFTER THANKSGIVING DAY, CHRISTMAS DAY, and an additional holiday to be  
designated cach year by the Company, and shall be compensated for or given as time off  
in accordance with the provisions of Article XVIII (excluding Section 18.6) and Section  
R4.2 concerning holidays.  
Section R4.2  
An employee who is required to work on Martin Luther King, Jr Day, July  
Fourth, Labor Day and the day after Thanksgiving Day, that fall on a regular workday  
shall receive, in lieu of the compensation formulas set forth in Sections 18.2 and 18.4  
herein and in lieu of any other compensation, two (2) times the employee's straight-time  
rate of pay for all straight-time, and overtime hours worked.  
### ARTICLE R-V  
### PROVISIONS GF MASTER AGREEMENT TOTALLY INAPPLICABLE  
Section R5.1  
The provisions of Articles XI, X01, XTV and XVI are not applicable to  
employees hereunder.  
(See Sideletters DZ, and DZ-2)  
### ARTICLE R-VI1  
### SENIORITY  
Section R6.1  
Publicists (excluding the Junior Publicist) shall constitute one (1) seniority Unit  
for the purpases of layoff, rehiring and other provisions where Unit Seniority is  
applicable. In the event of a layoff, any Junior Publicist employed in accordance with  
Section R2.1 shall be laid off prior to the layoff of a Publicist.  
189  
   
Section R6.2  
Section R6.2  
Pay Seniority determines the employce’s place on the escalator and indicates his  
or her anniversary date for pay purposes. In determming the Pay Seniority of a new  
the Company will consider the employee’s previous experience and, upon the  
Union's request, will discuss his or her place on the escalator with the Union within  
seven (7) days after his or her employment. Employees already on the payroll may have  
theic Pay Seniority increased by the Company after the Union is notified.  
A newly hired Publicist with experience as a Publicist with any radio or  
television network or station, excluding a station operated by a college, university or  
other educational institution, shall be credited with Pay Seniority for at least fifty percent  
(50%) of such experience; provided, however, that in ne event shall the Company be  
obligated to place such an employee on the top step of the appropriate escalator, and  
provided further that an employee with eighteen (18) months or more of such experience  
shall not be placed at the bottom of the escalator. The Company will advise an applicant  
for a Publicist position of the substance of this Paragraph at the time of his or her  
application and, in order to be accredited with experience hereunder, the applicant must  
report such experience to the Company at that time,  
### ‘ARTICLE R-VII  
### VACATION RELIEF EMPLOYEES  
Section R7.!  
The provisions of Section 3.6 of the Master Agreement as applied to employees  
hereunder, shall read as if modified by deleting the date “October Ist” contained therein  
and substituting the date “September Ist” therefor, and by deleting the date “October  
31st" contained therein and substituting the date “September 30th” therefor.  
### ARTICLE R-VIII  
### TRAVEL  
Section R8.1  
The Company and the Union have discussed the matter of travel and  
reimbursement of travel expenses for employees covered by this Agreement, The Union  
has stated that these employees have no complaint in reference to the current  
departmental policy on such matters. The Company has stated that there is no  
tion R&. nit’  
present intent on the part of departmental management to change that policy, but if any  
changes are made, they will be discussed with the Union and, if an employee believes  
that any change unfairly deprives him or her of a condition previously enjoyed in  
reference to travel or reimbursement for travel expenses, such complaint will be  
discussed by the President of the Loca] Union and a representative of the Labor  
Relations Department and, if unresolved by them, may be submitted to arbitration.  
### ARTICLE R-JX  
### TRANSPORTATION FOR FEMALE EMPLOYEES  
Section R9.1  
A female employee who is required to work at her home office later than 8:00 PM  
will, if requested, be furnished transportation to her home if it is within five (5) miles of  
her place of employment or, if her home is farther away, to the public transportation facility  
normally available to such employee. [f, in such event, transportation to such location ts  
not furnished by the Company, the employee will be reimbursed for any actual taxi  
expenses incurred by her to reach such location. This provision shall not apply to female  
employees whose regular shift extends beyond 8:00 PM.  
### ARTICLE R-X  
### VACATIONS  
Section  
(a) In lieu of Section 19.1 of the Master Agreement, the following shall apply to  
employees under this Agreement:  
An employee who is on the payrol]] on December 25th of any year shall be  
entitled to vacation with pay in the succeeding year, as follows:  
### TOTAL COMPANY SENIORITY WEEKS OF VACATION  
### AS OF DECEMBER 25th WITH PAY  
Less than five (5) years Two (2) weeks  
Five (5) or more years, Three (3) weeks  
but less than fifteen (15)  
Fifteen (15) or more years Four (4) weeks  
(See Sideletter GT.)  
191  
   
Section R10.1/b)  
{b)  
{¢)  
(d)  
(e)  
(f}  
Notwithstanding the preceding subparagraph (a), employees actively employed on  
the Company payroll as of December 25, 2003 who have accrued vacation  
entitlement for 2004 vacations in an amount in excess of the schedule set forth in  
subparagraph (a) above shall be entitled to keep that specific greater vacation  
entitlement for the period of their employment but shall not be entitled to earn  
any greater vacation entitlement. For example, an employee who has accrued  
twenty (20) or more years but less than twenty-five (25) years as of December  
25, 2003 shall for 2004 vacations and thereafter be entitled to five (5) wecks of  
vacation, but shall not be thereafter entitled to any further vacation allowance.  
In lieu of Section 19.2 of the Master Agreement, the following shall apply to  
employees under this Agreement:  
An employee on the payroll on December 25th of any year who is  
terminated on or after December 25th for any reason will be entitled to  
vacation as specified in this Article, or payment in lieu of vacation plus  
any holiday pay to which the employee may be entitled, except that an  
employee who is on the payroll on December 25th, but who has less  
than six (6} months of Total Company Sentortty credit as of the date of  
termination, and who ts terminated prior to April Ist of the succeeding  
year, shall receive one (1) week's vacation pay plus any holiday pay to  
which he or she may be entitled.  
fn lieu of Section 19.3 of the Master Agreement, the following shail apply to  
employees under this Agreement:  
An employee who acquires five (5) Total Company Seniority in  
any year shatl thereupon be entitled to a thicd (3rd) week's vacation  
with pay consecutive with his or her regular vacation in such year.  
[n lieu of Section 19.4 of the Master Agreement, the following shall apply to  
employees under this Agreement:  
An employee who acquires his or her fifteenth (15) year of Total  
Company Seniority in any year shall thereupon be entitled to a fourth  
(4th) week’s vacation with pay consecutive with his or her regular  
vacation in such year.  
In lieu of Section 19.8 of the Master Agreement, the following shall apply to  
employees under this Agreement:  
192  
Section RIO. 1(f Cont'd  
An employee engaged between December 26th of the preceding year  
and Apnil 30th of the current year inclusive (excluding vacation relief  
employees) shall receive one (1} week's vacation with pay in such year  
plus such days as are due the employee by virtue of holidays. An  
employee who is terminated between December 26th of the preceding  
year and April 30th of the current year inclusive shal] not be entitled to  
pay for any vacation unless he or she shall have been employed for at  
least three (3) months preceding the date of termination. An employee  
engaged after April 30th (excluding vacation relief employees) shall  
receive one (1) day’s vacation with pay for each month the employee  
has been employed by the Company. prior to the beginning of his or her  
vacation for that year, not to exceed five (5S) workdays, plus such days  
as are due the employee by virtue of holidays.  
(gz) (n addition to the above provisions of this Section, Sections 19.7, 19.9, 19.16,  
19.12, 19.13, 19.14 and 19.15 of the Master Agreement shali apply to  
employees under this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE R-XI  
### Section RJ 1.1  
When a Publicist is assigned to attend a formal event (requiring black-tie attire}  
the Company will reimburse such Publicist for the cost of renting such attire, up  
to a maximum of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), in accordance with Company  
policy.  
193  
Section TI.)  
### T, RADIO PROGRAM COORDINATORS AGREEMENT  
### LOS ANGELES  
### ARTICLE  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section T1.]  
The term “employee” as used in this Agreement means anyone employed by the  
Company to render services in Los Angeles as a Radio Program Coordinator of radio  
programs, excluding department heads or other supervisory employees with autbonty to  
hire and fire employees included within the scope of the Agreement or effectively to  
recommend such action.  
(See Sideletter BL.)  
### ARTICLE T-I  
### DUTIES  
Section T2.]  
The duties of employees hereunder shall involve services in connection with  
“telephone talk” programs produced by the Company for Jocal KABC and/or KLOS  
Radio when such programs are originated within the Los Angeles area and include: (i)  
the “screening,” pursuant to standards established by the Company, of listener telephone  
calls prior to the callers’ participation in on-the-air programming and; (ii) assisting the  
on-the-air talent in research in connection with such programs, in the scheduling of  
guests for such programs, and in adhering to the program log during the broadcast of  
such programs: in addition, employees hereunder may be called upon, without  
additional compensation, to maintain the program log on any programs originated over  
the facilities of KABC and/or KLOS Radio, and/or; (iv) to perform other functions  
related to (i) and (ii) above, exctuding those functions covered by Section 3.2  
below. Further, employces hereunder may tear and otherwise handle wire copy to be  
used in connection with the radio programs described above.  
   
### ARTICLE T-IIl  
### CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
Section T3.|  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
8/9/03- 3/7/04. 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
Years 8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06 31/07  
Regul ekl . r  
0-1 $565.00 $582.00 $599.50 $617.50  
Over | 748.50 768.00 791.00 814,50  
Daily  
148.90 153.40 158.00 162.70  
Section T3.2  
When an employee hereunder is required to perform production duties which are  
nor covered by the provisions of Section hereof, such employee may be required to  
perform such duties without any such additional compensation.  
Section T3.3  
In the event the Company elects to assign the duties of Radio Program  
Coordinator Supervisor io a member of the Unit, such employee shall receive a rate of  
pay fifteen percent (15%) above the applicable “Over { Year” rate due regular weekly  
employees hereunder. Nothing herein shall preclude the assignment of a Supervising  
Radio Program Coordinator to any of the duties set forth in Section T2.1 hereof.  
(See Stdeletter BL.)  
### ARTICLE T-IV  
### WORK SCHEDULE, OVERTIME AND PENALTIES  
Section T4.1  
The workday and workweek applicable to employees hereunder shall be set  
forth in Article VIII of the Master Agreement except that regular weekly employees  
i195  
   
Section T4,]  
hereunder shall be paid a penaity equal to one-half (1/2) their regular rate of pay for  
hours worked on “board assignments” in excess of five (5) hours on any tour of duty,  
provided, however, that in no event shall said penalty be paid for hours worked on  
“board assignments” where the employee js replacing another employee on the first  
(ist) day of itlness.  
### ARTICLE T-V  
### MEAL PERIODS  
Section T5.1  
With the concurrence of the individual employee involved, the Company may  
assign jasi-hour meals.  
### ARTICLE T-V1  
### WORK SCHEDULE FOR DAILY EMPLOYEES  
Section T6. |  
(2) The Company may employ persons on a daily basis. In addition, the Company  
may hire persons on a daily basis to work a minimum of four (4) hours on any  
day, at a rate of pay equal to one eighth (1/8) the regutar daily rate set forth in  
Section T3.] above for each hour worked, which shall be the regular pay rate for  
such person. In the event such person is required to work in excess of six (6)  
hours, he or she shall be compensated for a minimum of eight (8) hours.  
(b) No regular weekly employce actively employed as of September 26, 2003 shall be  
laid off during the term of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement as a direct result of  
the Company's utilization of daily employees. This restriction on layoff shall not  
apply to layoffs caused by changes in station(s) format, sale of a station(s) or  
other major operational change of a similar magnitude. Nothing herein shall be  
deemed to amend, modify or alter the respective rights set forth in  
sections or  
(c) Daily employees shall not be regular employees and wili not acquire nor accrue  
any except that if a daily employee becomes a regular employee then the  
employce’s seniority at the time he or she becomes regular shall be expressed in  
weeks and will be equal to the number of straight-time hours worked for the  
Company as a daily employee divided by forty (40).  
(d) Employees hired on a daily basis who work on one (1) of the following holidays:  
196  
(e)  
(f)  
New Year’s Day  
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day  
Presidents” Day  
Memorial Day  
July Fourth  
Labor Day  
Veteran’s Day  
Thanksgiving Day  
Day After Thanksgiving  
Christmas Day  
shall be compensated for work on such holidays at one and one-half (1-1/2) times  
the employee's straight-time rate of pay, computed on the basis of quarter (1/4)  
hour segments, and at two (2) times the straight-time rate of pay computed on the  
basis of quarter (1/4) hour segments, for over eight (8) hours on a holiday.  
In the event the Company engages a person on a daily basis and thereafter  
cancels such engagement between [2:00 noon and 5:00 PM of the day preceding  
his or her assignment, said person shall be paid a sum to four (4) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for an eight (8) hour call, or longer, or two (2) hours’  
pay if the engagement was for a four (4) hour call. 1f the engagement is canceled  
after 5:00 PM of the day preceding the assignment, said person shall be paid a  
sum equal to four (4) or eight {8} hours’ pay, whichever is applicable.  
Employees hired on a daily basis who work in excess of erght (8) hours in any  
one (1} day (including not more than one (1) hour for the first (1st) meal period),  
or who work in excess of forty (40) hours during @ regular work week, shall be  
compensated for such excess at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s  
straight-time rate of pay, computed on the basis of quarter (1/4) hour segments.  
In no case shal] overtime accrue on overtime.  
(See Sideletters FD and FD-1.)  
### ARTICLE T-VII  
{Deleted.]  
197  
Section  
### X. WABC-AM TALENT/TELEPHONE/COORDINATOR AGREEMENT  
### NEW YORK  
### ARTICLE X-1  
### SCOPE OF UNIT  
Section X1.]  
The bargaining unit shal! consist of all full-time and regular part-time  
talent/telephone coordinators employed by WABC-AM at its facility located at 2 Penn  
Plaza, New York, New York, but excluding all other employees, guards, professional  
employees and supervisors as defined by the Act.  
It is understood and agreed that this Agreement only covers work performed in  
the permanent studios of WABC-AM. In the event that the Company assigns a  
talent/telephane coordinator to work outside of the permanent studios of WABC-AM, his  
or her terms and conditions of employment be governed by this Agreement.  
In the event of a relocation of the permanent studios of WABC-AM, this  
Agreement shal} only remain in effect if the studios remain in the New York total survey  
area as defined by the Arbitron Rating Service at the time of the execution of this  
Agreement,  
(See Sideletter DH.)  
### ARTICLE X-I]  
### GENERAL ARTICLES  
Section X2.1  
The following provisions of the General Anicles of the NABET-CWA-ABC  
Master Agreememt shall be applicable to talenv/telephone coordinators employed by  
WABC-AM who are covered by this Agreement:  
Article I  
### Article Il  
Article {except for Sections 3.5 and 3.6)  
### Article IV  
### Article V  
Article VI (ending at heretofore}  
Article VII (except for Sections 7.1, 7.3, 7.10 and 7.11)  
### Article X  
198  
Article XI  
Article X11 - Section 12.1(a) only  
### Article XIIE  
### Article XIV  
### Article XV  
### Article XVI  
### Article XVI]  
### Article XVIII  
### Article XIX  
### Article XX  
### Article XXI  
### Article XXii  
### Article XXII]  
### Article XXIV  
### Article XXV  
### Article XXVI  
### Article  
### Antcle XXVIII  
Article XXIX  
### Article XXX  
### ARTICLE X-Ill  
### DUTIES  
Section X3.)  
lt is specifically understood that this Agreement shall only be applicable to  
WABC-AM so long as it maintains its present format. In the event that the station  
adopts a mixed format, this Agreement shall only be applicable to those programs that  
utilize listener phone calls as the major element of the program.  
Duties of employees covered by this Agreement shall be:  
“  
{a} Screening listener calls, pursuant to standards established by the Company during  
local radio programs to which they are assigned.  
(b} Scheduling or booking guests.  
Employees covered by this Agreement may also be required to perform any of the  
below-listed duties on a non-exclusive basis:  
(c) the coordination of remote site and/or in-studio programming in connection with  
telephone talk programs for local WABC-AM radio;  
199  
X3,!1 Cont'd  
(d) perform research;  
(e) prepare non-news material;  
(f) perform other reasonably related duties as assigned, including but not limited to  
network radio programs which originate from the studios of WABC-AM.  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement or the Master  
Agreement, persons outside of the bargaining unit may perform the duties listed in  
Paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f) above.  
Section X3.2  
Except as provided for in Sections X3.3, X3.4 or X3.5, any person employed by  
the Company for the purpose of performing the duties in Section X3.1{a)} and/or (b)  
above shall be considered an employee covered by the terms and conditions of this  
Agreement.  
Section X3.3  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement or the Master Agreement  
including specifically Sections X3.1(a) and {b) and X3.2 above, a person employed by  
the Company on a full-time basis and not covered by this Agreement may perform the  
duties listed in Sections X3.1(a} and (b) above to a degree not to exceed twenty percent  
(20%) of their regular workweek and up to one hundred percent (100%) of any  
workwecks, a5 necessary to cover vacation, holidays, sick leave or other absences of  
talent/telephone coordinators, without in any way being covered by or subject to this  
Agreement. This shall not prevent the Company from utilizing interns as heretofore.  
The intent of this Section is to permit flexibility, but not to allow a person  
employed on a full-time basis and not covered by this Agreement lo perform the duties  
listed in Secttons X3.1(a) and (b) above on a regular recurring basis.  
The parties recognize that on occasion because of unusual operating circum-  
stances, employees not covered by this Agreement may exceed the twenty percent (20%)  
limitation on others screening phone calls and booking or scheduling guests. The parties  
further recognize that this will be the unusual situation and not the norm.  
[t is understood and agreed that NABET-CWA makes no jurisdictional claim, or  
any other claim pursuant to this Agreement, on the non-bargaining unit work performed  
by persons outside of the collective bargaming agreement because of the fact that they  
may perform some bargaining work pursuant to this Section.  
200  
   
Section X3,3 Cont'd  
This Section X3.3 does not apply to non-bargaining unit part-time employees.  
Section X3.4  
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Master Agreement  
including specifically Sections X3.1 and X3.2 above, Producers may perform the duties  
listed in Section 3. 1{b) above for those programs which they are assigned to produce.  
Section X3.5  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement or the Master  
Agreement, including specifically Sections X3.1{a) and (b) and X3,2, on-air talent of a  
regularly scheduled program may perform the duties listed in Section X3.1(a) and (b)  
above, in connection with his or her scheduled program.  
### ARTICLE X-IV  
### EMPLOYMENT  
Section X4.1  
All regular full-time talent/telephone coordinators shall be temporary employees  
for a period of three (3) months from the date of their employment with the Company  
and shall thereafter be regular employees. Temporary employees may be discharged or  
laid off in the sole discretion of the Company.  
Section X4,2  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.1 above, a full-time vacation relief  
talent‘telephone coordinator hired between March ist and October (s1 of any year shall  
be considered a temporary employee even though his or her period of employment  
extends beyond six (6) months, provided, however, that the employee shall become a  
regular employee if retained after October 31st of the year in question, or upon obtaining  
six (6) months’ continuous service, whichever is the later.  
201  
### ARTICLE X-V  
### WORK SCHEDULE, OVERTIME AND PENALTIES  
Section X5.1  
Article VIIi of the NABET-CWA-ABC Master Agreement shall be applicable to  
all regular full-time talent/telephone coordinators with the following exceptions:  
(a) The Company shall not be requtred to pay any penalties pursuant to Article VIH,  
Sections 8.6(b) and (c)(i) or any additional compensation (other than  
compensation for the time worked) to any full-time talent/telephone coordinator  
who is subject to a change in his or her schedule as the result of:  
(1) ihe unavailability, for any reason, of a full-time or part-time  
talent‘telephone coordinator who was previously scheduled to work; or  
(2) an act of God,  
(b) The first paragraph of Section 8.6(c) shall be modified as follows:  
{1) Daily Schedule Changes - Notice of daily schedule changes affecting  
starting time shall be given no later than 5:00 P.M. of the day prior to  
the day in question subject to the provisions of Paragraph 1. If  
schedule changes are desired thereafter, such changes can only be made  
by adding work time to the previously scheduled hours at overtime  
Tates as specified in Section 8.5.  
Section X5,2  
The following sections of Article VIII of the NABET-CWA-ABC Master  
Agrcement shall be applicable to part-time talent/telephone coordinators: Sections 8.3,  
8.4, 8.8 and 8.10. Furthermore, the following provisions shall be applicable to part-time  
lalent/telephone coordinators:  
(1) =A tour of duty starting any day and continuing in the following day shall be  
considered as one (1) tour of duty and attributed to the first (Ist) day.  
(2) The Company shail post a weekly schedule for the nine (9) day period  
commencing at 12;01 A.M. Saturday for part-time talent/telephone coordinators  
by no tater than 5:00 P.M. on the Thursday prior to the Saturday which begins  
the workweek. This schedule may thereafler be changed by notifying the  
202  
part-time talent/telephone coordinator. However, in the event that a part-time  
talent/telephone coordinator’s tour of duty is canceled with less than twenty-four  
(24) hours of notice for reasons other than an act of God, the employee will  
receive a penalty of Fifteen Dollars ($15.00).  
### ARTICLE X-VI  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
Section X6.1  
The Company may employ part-time talent/telephone coordinators at the  
applicable hourly rate contained in the collective bargaining agreement. Part-time  
talenvielephone coordinators employed by WABC-AM may be assigned to perform any  
and all “engineering functions” as may be assigned to full-time employees hereunder.  
Part-time talent/telephone coordinators assigned to screen calls on an air show shall be  
provided with adequate time prior to the start of such show and subsequent to the end of  
such show in order to perform all assigned tasks.  
The minimum call for part-time talent/telephone coordinators shall be three (3)  
hours per day. This shall be applicable only where the show to which such part-time  
talent/‘telephone coordinator is assigned is less than three (3) hours.  
All part-time talent/telephone coordinators shalt be temporary employees and  
may be discharged or laid off in the sole discretion of the Company.  
The provisions of the Master Agreement otherwise applicable to  
talentv/telephone coordinators shall not be applicable to part-time employees:  
Sections 3.7, 8.1, 8.2, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7 and 8.9  
Article XI]  
### Article XII]  
### Article XIV  
### Article XV  
### Article XVIII  
### Article XIX  
### Article XXII except the Company’s Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy  
### Article XXIII  
### Article XX V1  
### Article XX VII  
### Article XX VIII  
### Article XX1X  
203  
   
Section X6.] Cont'd  
Any part-time talent/telepbone coordinator who is engaged as a regular full-time  
talent/telephone coordinator shall receive seniority credit for the number of hours that  
such person was employed as a part-time tafent/telephone coordinator.  
Employees hired on a part-time basis who work on New Year's Day, Presidents’  
Day, Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas Day shall be compensated for work on  
such holidays at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's straight time rate of pay,  
computed on the basis of quarter (1/4) hour segments and at two (2) times the straight  
time rate of pay computed on the basis of quarter (1/4) hour segments for work in excess  
of eight (8) hours on a holiday, This wiil be in addition to any payments or penalties to  
which the employee is entitled.  
(See Sideletter DG.)  
### ARTICLE X-VIlI  
[Deleted.]  
### ARTICLE  
### MEAL PERIOD  
Section X8. 1  
All regular full-time talent/telephone coordinators and any part-time talent/  
telephone coordinators who are scheduled to work seven {7} or more hours in any day  
shall be entitled to receive a one (1) hour paid mea! period as part of their eight (8) hour  
day. The Company shall attempt to provide the employee with this meal period as near  
to the middle of the employee's shift as possible but, in the event that it is unable to do  
so, this shall not be deemed to be a violation of this Agreement and therefore this matter  
shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure. In the event, however,  
that a talent/telephone coordinator completes his or her eight (&) hour or longer workday  
and has not received a one (1) hour meal period, he or she shall be entitled to receive a  
penalty equal to one (1) hour of salary at his or her regular rate of pay.  
During each workday that an employee works ten (10) or more hours, the  
Company shall pay the employee Five Dollars, Fifty Cents ($5.50) to remmburse the  
employee for added expenses in addition to any overtime pay.  
204  
   
### ARTICLE X-IX  
### PERFORMANCE OF TECHNICAL DUTIES  
Section X9.]  
To the extent permitted by the terms of Sideletter CA, full-time employees  
covered hereunder may be assigned to perform technical duties in accordance with the  
provisions of Sideletter CA.  
### ARTICLE X-X  
### TRAINING  
Sectian X10.!  
An employee who is assigned to a job in the bargaming unit in which he or she  
has no recent experience will be given an adequate opportunity to adjust to his or her  
new duties and will receive individual training, if necessary. In no event will this period  
of adjustment or individual training exceed one (1) day. However, the Company in its  
sole discretion may elect to extend the period of adjustment or training.  
### ARTICLE X-X]  
### WAGE SCALE  
Section X!1.1  
The minimum salary payable to employees covered by this Agreement shal] be as  
follows:  
8/9/03- $/6/05- $/5/06-  
Years 8/6/04 8/5/05 9/4/06  
£501.50 $316.50 $532.00 $548.00  
]-2 641.50 660.50 680.50 701.60  
2-3 682.50 703.00 724.00 745.50  
3-4 701.00 722.00 743.50 766.00  
4 & Over 772.50 795.50 $19.50 844.00  
Part-time/hour 15.68 16.15 16.63 17.13  
  
205  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereunto set their hands and seals on the  
twenty-sixth day of September 2003.  
### ABC, INC.  
By /s/ Jeffrey Ruthizer  
Jeffrey Ruthizer  
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations  
### NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCAST EMPLOYEES AND TECHNICIANS-  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, CLC  
By /s/ John 5. Clark  
John S. Clark  
Sector President  
206  
Statement of Interpretation  
### STATEMENT OF INTERPRETATION  
### NABET-C WA-ABC MASTER AGREEMENT  
### GENERAL SECTIONS  
GENERAL NOTE: Sections which are not referred to in this Statement of Interpretation  
shall be deemed to be self-explanatory.  
### ARTICLE X  
In accordance with interpretation of the Fair Labor Standards Act by the Wage  
and Hour Division, the provisions of Section 10.1 relating to the payment of a twenty-  
two and one-half percent (22 1/2%) night shift differential shal] be construed to require  
only that the fifteen percent (15%) night shift differential shall be included in the regular  
rate in computing overtime for work in excess of forty (40) hours per week, as required  
by that Act, and not to require that the twenty-two and one-half percent (22 1/2%)  
differential be paid unless required by the Act.  
The parties agree that the prevailing practices with respect to the payment of  
overtime in work weeks which include night differential payments is in conformance  
bath to the Statement of fnterpretation and to the Fair Labor Standards Act.  
### ARTICLE XI] - UPGRADING  
[Deleted.]  
(See Sideletter GU.}  
### CHICAGO AND LOS ANGELES NEWSWRITERS AGREEMENTS  
This will confirm that it is not the intention of Sections K2.3 of the Chicago  
Newswriters Agreement or 02.2 of the Los Angeles Newswriters Agreement that  
supervisory personnel be permitted to perform writing services, as opposed to desk  
functions, other than as permitted under specific circumstances in Sections K1.1 and  
O1.2, K3.11(e), O3.11(e} and Sideletter CX.  
### ABC, INC.  
By Js/ Jeffrey Ruthizer  
Jeffrey Ruthizer  
Senior Vice President, Labor Relations  
207  
Statement of Interpretation Cont'd  
### NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCAST EMPLOYEES AND TECHNICIANS-  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, CLC  
By /s/ John $, Clark  
John S. Clark  
Sector President  
208  
Stipulation ()  
STIPULATION OF AGREEMENT between ABC, Inc., a wholly owned  
subsidiary of Disney Enterprises, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Wait Disney  
Company, Inc. (anly as the owner of those television and radio stations, television and  
radio network facilities, and other entities and operations, which were covered by the  
1981-1985 NABET-ABC Master Agreement and which formerly were included within  
the “American Broadcasting Company, a division of American Broadcasting Companies,  
Inc,”, which stations, facilities, entities, and operations continue to be owned, directly or  
indirectly, by ABC, Inc. or by a subsidiary or division thereof, and which stations,  
facilities, entities, and operations shall hereinafter be called the “Company”), and the  
National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians, the Broadcasting and  
Cable Television Workers Sector of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO,  
referred to as “NABET-CWA”) which, with respect to the matters  
specifically dealt with herein, shal] supplement the Master Agreement between the  
parties dated September 27, 2003.  
The parties herein agree as follows:  
(1) Licenses and Certificates  
The Company will make all reasonable efforts to assist an employee in the  
acquisition or renewal of those City, County, State or Federal licenses or certificates  
which are required by law to be held by an employee in order for him or her to perform  
his or her assigned duties covered by the terms of this Agreement. The Company will  
reimburse the employee for the fees charged by the City, County, State or Federal  
governments incidental to applying for or renewing said licenses or certificates, but this  
provision shall not be deemed to include driver licenses and automobile registrations —  
except for special chauffeur licenses when such licenses are required for the performance  
of duties assigned by the Company.  
{2) TD Assigning Self as LDE  
This will confirm that the Company has advised NABET-CWA that the Company  
does not intend for a Technical Director to assign him or herself as a Light Direction  
Engineer as 4 general practice, This shall not be construed to mean that the Company  
intends to assign a Light Direction Engineer in any case where the Company feels that  
the services of a Light Direction Engineer are not needed.  
(3) Extra Holiday Payback Day Off  
In connection with Section 18.4 of the NABET-CWA-ABC Master Agreement  
providing for the extra holiday payback day off to be consecutive with the employce’s  
regular days off, the regular two (2) consecutive days off in each week provided for  
under Section 8.2 of the NABET-CWA-ABC Master Agreement may  
209  
Stipulation (3) Cont'd  
be any two (2) consecutive days off designated by the Company in any week, and may be  
changed of the Company's reasons therefore.  
(4)  ([Deleted.]  
(5) Last Hour Lunches - New York  
All last hour lunches will be granted on a five (5) day across-the-board basis. Upon  
receipt of a request for a last hour lunch, the Company will advise the employee when it is  
to grant his or her request. Once a last hour lunch is granted, it shall be irrevocable  
for the ensuing week. Should it become necessary to discontinue the last hour Jusch, the  
employee shall be notified no later than the posting of the next weekfy schedule.  
(6) Rotating Watch - New York Television Master Control  
In the New York Television Master Control a rotating watch shall remain in effect  
wherein the employees (exclusive of the Group 7) shall work a shift as scheduled for a  
period of four (4) weeks, at which time they rotate to the next consecutive shift. As each  
employee works through the schedule of six (6) shifts, he or she will be scheduled on  
shift number two (2) with Saturday, Sunday and Monday off for the first (1st) week of  
the shift. During the last three (3) weeks the employee will have Sunday and Monday as  
regular days off. From January | through June 30, Monday may be designated as a  
holiday payback day as required. From July 1 through December 31 this Monday will  
be designated as an extra day off. The Company may utilize this day in the event of  
Ulness without incurring penalties or overtime; however, an employee cannot be recalled  
in the event illness extends beyond the second (2nd) day.  
(7) Cueing Devices  
The operation of the controller of prompting devices (which includes Auto-Q  
and Teleprompter} may be performed by persons not covered by the Agreement, at  
the Company’s discretion, whether or not the prompting device is affixed to the camera.  
The “operation of the controller” shall include making changes. Where the prompting  
device is affixed to the camera, NABET-C WA-represented personnel will affix and  
remove such device.  
(8} | Working Rules - Technical Directors  
(a) The Technical Director shall receive a program scnpt and have access  
to floor plans as soon as they are available together with essential  
information relative to lighting requirements. The Technica) Director  
shall also be furnished with a copy of the studio floor plan.  
210  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
(e)  
   
tipulation  
The Technical Director shall attend dry rehearsal and/or program  
consultation where in the opinion of the Engineering Department this is  
necessary. Careful consideration shall be given to the recommendation  
of the Technica] Director.  
When a rehearsed program is on the air the Technical Director or the  
Technical Director’s designee within the bargaining unit is the only  
person authorized to give instructions to the operators of technical  
equipment. Where mutuaily agreed between the Program Director and  
the Technical Director the instructions to the operators of technical  
equipment shall be given through the Technical Director during dress  
rehearsal.  
During all rehearsals and during broadcasts of unrehearsed programs  
the Program Director shall have the widest possible latitude consistent  
with the provisions of the NABET-CWA-ABC Agreement in creating  
the program and the Program Director, or in the Program Director’s  
absence his or her designee, shall have the mght to issue production  
directions, as distinguished from technical directions, to the operators  
of technical equipment. The Technical Director shall continue to issue  
such technical instructions as are necessary in his or her judgment.  
l, Network Technical Directors (other than those assigned to  
ENG or EFP) are classified as Group 8.  
Z, Network Technical Directors need not be assigned in any of  
the following circumstances:  
{a) Whenever a Light Direction Engineer who is  
compensated at the Group 7 rate is on duty;  
(b) To the “Sports Complex” in New York to perform  
the duties that the Arbitrator in AN 91-8 required a  
Technical Director to perform. Such Technical  
Directors will continue to be classified as Group 7,  
and will not be incorporated into the “T.D.  
Seniority List” referred to in AN 72-80. These  
Technical Directors will be included in a separate  
“T.D. Seniority List” similar to the list referred to  
in AN 72-80;  
211  
{¢c)} To “park and power” a Company production mobile  
unit under the following conditions:  
{i) If the Company is going to “park and  
power” the vehicle, the maintenance  
engineer who is regularly assigned to the  
unit in question wil! be assigned;  
(ii) Similarly, if the vehicle was previously  
parked at the location where the pickup is  
going to be made, the maintenance engineer  
will be assigned as described above when it  
is “powered”;  
(iii} However, if the Company is going to “park”  
the vehicle, but not “power” it until a later  
time, the assignment of the driver is  
sufficient if he has previously been assigned  
to a pickup al that remote site and the  
location of the mobile unit  
is Substantially the same as it was on that  
previous pickup; provided that, in any case  
where two (2) or more production mobile  
units are going to be used at the pickup, the  
Technical Director shall be assigned to  
“park and power™ the mobile unit.  
(d) To any survey unless, at the discretion of the  
Company, the TD's presence at the survey ts  
desired.  
Notwithstanding any practice or provision to the contrary in  
Article IV or Stipulation 8, nothing shall preclude members  
of the Technical Director’s crew from working during set vp  
or knock down on remotes or in the studio or during any  
meal periods, when the Technical Director is not present.  
During such meal period, or when a Technical Director is not  
assigned to the set up or the knock down, another member of  
the crew shall be upgraded to Group & Other upgrades in the  
Technical Director's absence shal! be at the  
discretion.  
212  
(f)  
   
Stipulation  
Owned Television Station Technical Directors {other than  
ihose assigned to ENG or EFP) are classified Group 8.  
The Company shall have the right to schedule any Owned  
Television Station Technical Director(s) to a last-hour meal  
period, notwithstanding the provisions of Section A8.2(a).  
Nothing shall preclude the members of an Owned Station  
Technical Director’s crew from working during the Technical  
Director’s meal period. During such meal period, another  
member of the crew shall be upgraded to Group 7.  
The appropriate provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Stipulation  
8(e) shail be applicable at Owned Television Stations.  
The Award in AS 84-34 shall be null and void.  
All claims that have been made, or could be made,  
concerning the claimed assumption of additional duties by  
Technical Directors as a result of the discontinuance of the  
Company’s assignment of certain DGA-represented personnel  
merged into the re-classification to Group 8 that will take  
place by virtue of the reclassification set forth herein. Any  
fees, upgrades, or any other monies that the Company has  
agreed to pay at a Station to settle any such claim, are  
credited against the differential between Group 7 and Group  
& pay. Consequently, any gnevances on the foregoing subject  
that ate presently outstanding, but are unresolved, are  
withdrawn with prejudice.  
Should the Company employ a Program Director or AD who in  
addition to performing directorial duties, will also switch the  
program using computer equipment covered by Sideletter DK  
or CX, such as but not limited to Parkervision, the Company  
shalt not be obligated to assign a Technical Director to such  
program, including set up or knock down for such program. In  
such circumstances, no provision of the Master Agreement shall  
be construed to: (1} prevent the Director or AD, or producer,  
from communicating directly with the technical crew or giving  
work instructions; or (2) require the assignment or upgrade of  
any other individual to a Technical Director position for the  
duration of the assignment or program.  
213  
. <g)  
(h)  
(i)  
   
A rehearsed program for the purposes of this Agreement shali be a  
program for which the on-camera rehearsal time exceeds:  
Length of Program Camera Time  
15 Minutes or Less 45 Minutes  
16 to 30 Minutes 1 '/: Hours  
3] to 45 Minutes 2 ‘fa Hours  
46 to 60 Minutes 3 Hours  
The above shall not apply to sports, special events and other programs  
which are not conceived, or staged, or the action in which is not  
planned or directed by the Company. All such programs are  
unrehearsed programs regardless of the amount of camera time used.  
For programs of longer duration the on-camera rehearsal time in the  
above table shall be proportionately increased.  
The Company shal) designate on the program schedule the  
classification into which each program falls. Programs having special  
characteristics affecting their classification under the foregoing shal] be  
the subject of discussion between the Union and the Company in each  
case.  
Commercial segments of programs shall be handled in the Control  
Room in the same manner as the rest of the programs uniess they  
originate in another studio in which case, if they have any rehearsal  
whatever, they shall be considered as rehearsed segments,  
On-camera rehearsal time for commercial segments of programs shall  
not be considered in applying the above table.  
The Company shall identify the Program Director who is responsible  
for each program or part thereof, There shall be only one (1) Program  
Director functioning as such at any time.  
In the event the Program Director departs from the script as finally  
rehearsed the Program Director shall assume alt responsibility for any  
errors or deficiencies in the performance of the technical crew's duties  
which are directly attributable to such departure.  
214  
   
S . ] 4 (8) (i)  
{j) The basic lighting requirements shall, in all cases, be observed. In the  
event the Technical Director or the Light Direction Engineer believes  
the lighting to be technically unsatisfactory and so advises the Program  
Director, giving his or her recommendations for its improvement, the  
Program Director will be responsible for the technical quality due to  
lighting if the Program Director does not accept such recommendation.  
(See Sideletter BD.)  
{9)  
(10) Section F2.2 - San Francisco Newswriters-Producers Agreement  
In connection with the reference in Section F2.2 of the San Francisco  
Newswriters-Producers Agreement to “programs which are produced by a third  
party, as distinguished from the Company,” it is mutually agreed that no  
Newswriter-Producer need be assigned to the program where such third-party  
producer is:  
1. an advertising agency or sponsor, or,  
‘2. °° an ‘individual or corporation with an established reputation as an  
independent package producer.  
(11) [Deleted.]  
{12} Jury Duty  
A regular employee who is required by Jaw to serve as a juror and who presents  
satisfactory written evidence of a notice for jury duty, will be given the necessary time  
off, with pay, from his or her regular schedule for the period during which the employee  
serves as a juror. Should the required jury service go beyond a reasonable  
period of time {i.e., more than four (4) weeks), payment of full salary to the employee is  
subject to review. Such employee is expected to report to work on any day his or her  
jury duty hours reasonably permit.  
215  
Stipulation (12) Cont'd  
Upon the request of an employee who ts required to serve on jury duty, the  
Company will change his or her days off to Saturday and Sunday during the weeks  
which include the jury duty service if such request is made in time for the Company to  
change days off without penalties or premium paytnents. If the Company has changed  
an employee’s days off pursuant 10 the foregoing sentence and, for the week following  
the employee’s jury service, wishes to change the days off back to other than  
Saturday and Sunday, such change may be made without incurring any penalties or  
premium payments to the aforementioned  
It shall be the employee’s obligation to notify the Company of his or her  
Tequirement to serve on jury duty immediately upon the receipt of the notice to appear  
for such service.  
(13)  
[Deleted.]  
(14)  
[Deleted.]  
(15) Layoffs - Severance  
Ail future layoffs in which severance is applicable shail be treated in the  
following manner:  
I. In the event an employee is laid off and has accepted severance pay,  
and is subsequently recalled, the employee will retain the full amount  
of his or her severance pay upon recall and any severance pay to which  
the employee may be entitled thereafter shall accrue only from the date  
of his or her last recall, plus any portion of a year for which no  
severance pay has previously been received.  
2. If an employee declines downgrading to a lower pay classification, the  
employee will be required to acknowledge such action in writing at the  
time of layoff and his or her acceptance of severance pay will preclude  
the employee returning to the declined pay classification during a  
period equal to the number of weeks of paid severance.  
3, In the event that an employee accepts downgrading and a reduction in  
tate as an alternative to layoff, and is subsequently laid off before the  
employee has completed twelve (12) months in the lower classification,  
the employee shall be given any severance pay to which he or she is  
entitled on the basis of the employee's effective rate just prior to the  
downgrading. In a}! other cases, severance pay sha}! be  
216  
Stipulation (15)3 Contd  
based on the employee's effective rate at the time of layoff.  
(16)  
Notwithstanding any provision of Section A2.2{d), persons not covered by the  
Engineering Agreement may feed information and/or instructions, the purpose of which  
is to control any operation to which a Technical Director would otherwise be assigned,  
into a computer as descnbed in Section A2.2(d) by using input devices located and  
operated either in technical or non-technical areas at any time prior to broadcast.  
If the Company elects to “break” such computer by placing the information or  
instructions to such computer on a magnetic tape, punch tape or similar device for  
insertion into the computer instead of feeding such information or instructions to such  
computer directly through a keyboard or similar input device, then the preceding  
paragraph shall not be applicable. In such case, however, Section A2.2(d)} will not  
prevent persons not covered by the Engineering Agreement from physically preparing the  
punch tape, magnetic tape or similar device for use by a Technical Director covered by  
this Agreement to feed information and instructions into the computer.  
Where a “back-up” tape is prepared for use in case the computer fails to operate  
properly on direct input, this shall not be deemed to be an election to break such  
computer, but if such back-up tape must be used to feed the instructions or information  
which runs the computer, a Technical Director covered by the Engineering Agreement  
will feed or insert such tape into the computer.  
When a process control computer is taken out of service for maintenance and is  
subsequently put back in service, the engineering employee who updates such computer  
shall be a Group 7 employee, or an employee temporarily upgraded to Group 7 on the  
day(s) such updating is performed.  
(17)  
(See Section A2.2(e) and Sideletter BB.)  
(1B)  
{See Section A2.2(e) and Sidelener BB.)  
(19)  
This Supulation (19) shall be applicable only to employees covered by the  
Engineering Agreernent in New York and Los Angeles:  
217  
In each calendar year, the Company shall have the nght to extend the  
employment of a number of vacation relief employees beyond the date  
when they otherwise would have achieved regular status under Section  
3.6 for periods not to extend beyond the last Friday of December of  
such year without such employees’ achieving regular status pursuant to  
such Section 3.6. The number of employees so extended at any such  
Office shal] not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the largest number of  
vacation relief employees hired at any time during that particular year  
in that office. The period of such extended service will not be included  
in seniority computation for purposes of Section 3.7 of the Master  
Agreement or the “Miller Sideletter”, bur it will be included for  
purposes of Pay Seniority and Company Seniority and will be mcluded  
in Adjusted Unit Seniority as to any employee who may, on the basis of  
some subsequent period af employment, achieve regular status.  
Article XIX shall not apply to a vacation relief employee whose service  
is extended pursuant to this Stipulation (19) unless he or she ts retained  
beyond the Friday of December, However, a vacation relief  
employee whose service is extended pursuant to this Stipulation (19)  
will be entitled ai the conclusion of such extended period of  
employment to vacation pay of one {1) day per month of the employee's  
tota} continuons service during the calendar year in which such service  
began, not to exceed five (5) days’ pay, plus one (1) day's pay for each  
of the following days which fell within the employee’s period of  
employment: July Fourth, Labor Day, Election Day and the Day  
Thanksgiving.  
The Company will make pension contributions on behalf of any  
vacation relief employee whose Service ts extended pursuant to this  
Stipulation (19) for any period of continuous service in excess of three  
(3) months during that calendar year, provided, however, that such  
contributions shall in any event be made for the penod of the  
employee's extended service beyond October 31st.  
Any vacation relief employee, employed in a classification which has a  
wage escalator, whose service is extended pursuant to this Stipulation  
(19) and who is reengaged in the subsequent calendar year, shall, upon  
such reengagement, be paid at the step on such escalator which is next  
above that at which the employee was paid during his or her last period  
of service.  
218  
   
Stipulation (1995  
Any vacation relief employee whose service is to be extended pursuant  
to this Stipulation (19) will be notified no later than October | 5th and  
the Loca] Union President will be notified simultaneously. The notice  
will include the Company’s best estimate, based on the information  
available at that time, of the duration of the period of extended service,  
it being understood that such notice does not constitute a commitment  
to employment for such period.  
(a)  
(b)  
Any vacation relief employee whose service is extended for the  
first (1st) time pursuant to this Stipulation (19) who is not  
employed in the subsequent calendar year for a period of at feast  
three (3) months (unless the failure to be employed for such  
period is the result of the unavailability or resignation  
of the individual employee} shail receive one {1) week's  
severance pay no later than October | of such subsequent year  
by check payable to the employee but delivered to the Union.  
A vacation relref employee whose service has been extended  
pursuant to this Stipulation (19) in two (2) consecutive calendar  
- years shall be placed on a “vacation relief list” at the office where  
the employee performed such extended service and shall be  
entitled to be in subsequent calendar years for vacation  
relief employment at that office, subject to the following:  
(i) such entitlement will be subordinate to any recall  
rights of regular employees on layoff at such office;  
(ii) the starting date for vacation relief employment in  
such subsequent calendar years shalt be determined  
by the Company, and where the number of persons  
on the “vacation retief list” exceeds the number of  
vacation relief vacancies im the year in question, the  
Company shall have the right to select which of the  
employces will be offered the available positions.  
When vacation relief openings arise in any  
operating group, persons on the “vacation relief  
list” whose last assignment in the prior year was in  
the same operating group will be given preference  
to fill such openings as against people who are not  
on the “vacation relief list”, but only within that  
same operating group. Vacation relief employees  
not on the “vacation relief list” can perform  
219  
(iti)  
(iv)  
(v)  
   
work only in the operating group in which they are  
engaged in any year until all those on the “vacation  
relief list” are offered employment in that year. In  
any year in which people who are not on the  
“vacation relief list” are hired before all those on  
the “vacation relief list” are offered employment, it  
is understood that all those on the “vacation relief  
list” shall be recalled by the first (1st) Saturday  
following Memonal Day in such year;  
if, in any calendar year, the Company wishes to  
extend the service of any vacation relief employees  
within any operating group, the preference shall be  
given to employees on the “vacation relief list”  
whose primary assignment during the vacation  
rélief season that year was in that operating group,  
it being understood that if there are more such  
employees than the number which the Company  
wishes to extend, the Company shail determine  
which employees will be extended, Employees not  
on the “vacation relief list’ who are extended in any  
operating group can perform work outside such  
Operating group only so long as all “vacation relief  
list” employees are retained;  
notwithstanding Sections 3,6 and 3.7 of the Master  
Agreement, the employment and any extensions  
thereof of persons who are placed on the “vacation  
relief list” as vacation relief employees in  
succeeding calendar years shall not result in such  
employees’ achieving regular status under the  
Agreement;  
the entitlement of a person on the “vacation rehef  
list” to be recalled for vacation relief employment  
shall be terminated if such person (a) has not been  
recalled for two (2) consecutive calendar years, (b)  
declines an offer of a vacation relief position, (c}  
declines an extension of vacation relief employment  
or (d) cannot be located by the Company after a  
reasonable effort to do so;  
220  
   
Stipulation  
{vi} if the Company wishes to discharge or suspend a  
person on the “vacation relief list” at a time when  
such person is employed in a vacation relief  
position, such disciplinary action by the Company  
Shall be subject to the provisions of Article XIV.  
is Upon written notice to the Company at any time prior to  
April Ist of any year, the Union shall have the nght to elect  
to have this Stipulation (19) apply, commencing such year, to  
employees covered by the Engineering Agreement in any  
office of the Company as set forth in Section 11.4 of the  
Master Agreement to which it did not previously apply, but  
such application cannot thereafter be terminated except by  
mutual agreement between the parties. tf the Union elects to  
have this Stipulation (19) apply in any such office of the  
Company and if the employment of any vacation relief  
employee is extended pursuant to this Stipulation (19) in such  
office, then for each employee so extended, the Company will  
assign at least twenty-five (25) man days of network remote  
assignments (excluding ENG assignments) to regular  
employees at that office during the twelve (12} month period  
commencing November | st of the year in which such  
extension takes place.  
### NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCAST EMPLOYEES AND TECHNICIANS-  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, CLC  
By és/John S. Clark  
John §. Clark  
Sector President  
### ABC, INC.  
By és/ Ruthizer  
Jeffrey: Ruthizer  
Seniar Vice President, Labor Relations  
221  
### AA  
### SIDELETTERS  
The following Sideletters have been agreed to by the parties and are part of this  
Master Agreement. The Sideletiers are lettered for identification only.  
Sideletter AA  
Section 16.2(b}  
In reference to continuation of trave! from an intermediate stop en route to a  
remote site, the Company shall not avail itself of the second (2nd} sentence of Section  
16.2(b) if such continuation of travel can be accomplished by  
automobiles and the employees involved consent io drive the necessary automobiles for  
such travel.  
### AB  
Video Tape Agreement  
This letter will confirm our understanding with respect to the operation and  
staffing of our video tape facilities in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco  
and Washington, D.C.  
The following are the minimum requirements and the operating procedure upon  
which the parties have agreed:  
I, There shall be no minimum staffing requirements. Nevertheless, in the  
application of the preceding sentence to any operation of video tape machines  
covered by this Sideletter AB in the playback and/or record modes, no employee  
wil! be required to take directions from more than one {1) source so close  
logether in time as to cause him or her an unreasonable mental strain.  
2. [Deleted.]  
A. The duties of video tape librarians may include the loading and unloading of tape  
cartridge machines.  
4, NABET-CWA will supply the Hollywood office with a cut of the NABET-CWA  
seal which will be printed on the production Jabe]. ABC New York will advise  
the various local operations relative to the use of such labels.  
5. [Deleted.}  
6.  
222  
10.  
Il,  
[Deleted.]  
Whenever air credits are given on a taped program to personnel covered by the  
Engineering Agreement other than the Technical Director, an air credit shall also  
be given to the video tape engineers who edited such program. It is understood  
that this requirement sha!l be satisfied by giving a credit to at least one video  
tape engineer who edited any portion of the program. (For purposes of this  
Paragraph 8, a program remains a “taped program” even if it includes live  
introductory, lead-in, lead-out and/or closing material.} Such credit may be given  
on the same frame containing credits for other technical personne] or any other  
placement in the program as the Company may determine. In no case will credit  
have to be given to the Video Tape Engineer where circumstances make the  
giving of such credit impractical, ¢.g., where the credit crawl was completed prior  
to the assignment of the Video Tape Engineer to the program.  
(Deleted.]  
[Deleted.]  
[Deleted.]  
(See Sideletters AB-1 and GK.)  
Sideletter AB-1  
Video Tape Agreement  
This Sideletter shall be an addendum to Sideletter AB and shall be applicable to  
the video tape facilities otherwise covered by Sideletter AB that are used for the  
playback, recording, dubbing or editing (or any combination of the foregoing} on  
video tape machines other than two-inch (2”) reel-to-ree] quadruplex video tape  
machines {i.e., VR 2000 and AVR | and II} and two-inch (2"} quadmuplex video  
tape cartridge machines (i,¢., ACR-25 and TCR-100). The two-inch (2”)  
quadruplex machines described above shall hereinafter be referred to as “AB  
machines”. Other video tape machines shail hereinafter be referred to as “AB-1  
machines”.  
There shall be no minimum staffing requirements. Nevertheless, in the  
application of the preceding sentence to any operation of AB-1 machines in the  
playback and/or record modes, no employee will be required to take directions  
from more than one (1) source so close together in time as to cause him or her an  
unreasonable mental] strain.  
223  
3. Editing Upgrades Applicable to AB-1 Machines  
{a} An engineer who edits video tape during a tour shall be upgraded to  
Group 5 for the entire tour. However, if such an employee edits with  
three (3) or more AB-| machines and such machines are operated by a  
“controller” (such as, but not necessarily limited to, Convergence, RM  
400, TRI, BYU, Datatron, etc.) such employee will be upgraded to  
Group 7 for the entire tour.  
{d) Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding Paragraph 3(a), an  
editor who operates two (2} or more AB-1 machines with a  
programming time code ur frame address editing device, such as  
EECO, CMX, RA 4000, Datatron, etc., in conjunction with a device  
capable of audio and video switching (e.g., an “audio-follow-video”  
switcher) and special effects (e.g., fades, dissolves, venetian blinds,  
chroma-key, etc.) shall be upgraded to Group 7 for the entire tour,  
(c} A Technical Director need not be assigned in any configuration set  
forth herein.  
4, (Deleted.]  
[Dcleted.]  
6. Practices that have developed with respect to AB machines will have no  
application with respect to AB-I machines. [n any arbitration or other  
proceeding that takes place concerning AB-] machines, practices with respect to  
AB machines will not be citable and the Impartial Umpire who hears and  
determines any such proceeding will not accept testimony or written evidence  
concerning practices that have developed with respect to AB machines.  
Similarly, in cases involving AB machines, practices regarding AB-1 machines  
will not be cited.  
7. [Deteted.]  
SideletteLAC  
[Deleted.]  
Sidgletter AD  
  
224  
Sidelener AE  
Section 14.3  
The following represents the understanding between the Company and the Union  
regarding Section 14.3 of the Master Agreement:  
In the event that the Union alleges that the management of any office of the  
Company is using Section 14,3 for reasons other than bona fide cases in which the  
management believed in good faith that suspension was warranted, the Union may refer  
such allegation to a Joint Committee consisting of the Sector President of the Union, the  
President of the Local Unton involved (or the Local President’s designee}, the Vice  
President for Labor Relations and a fourth (4th) person designated by the latter Company  
official. In the event the matter cannot be resolved by such Committee, it may be  
referred by the Union to any one of the Impartial Umpires listed in Section 20.6 other  
than the Umpire for the office involved. After a hearing on the matter, in  
which both the Union and the Company are represented, such Impartial Umpire will  
determine the issue, and if he or she sustains the Union’s allegations, the  
Umpire will be empowered to award appropriate relief, which may include suspending  
the application of Section 14.3 to the particular office involved for the duration of the  
Agreement,  
Sideletter AF  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter AG  
Upgrading  
This will confirm our understanding that any employee who is upgraded to a  
higher classification for at least one hundred thirty (130) days during the twelve (12)  
month period immediately preceding December 31st of each year shall be paid the  
applicable upgraded rate for his or her scheduled vacation, paid sick leave, payback days  
and jury duty during the following calendar year. In no event shal] any upgrades given  
for vacation, sick leave, payback days and jury duty in any calendar year count toward  
the upgrades in any succeeding year.  
If an employee is upgraded to more than one (1) grade during the twelve (12)  
month period in which he or she earned the above payment, he or she will] be paid for  
each day of vacation, paid sick leave, payback days and jury duty at the rate to which  
such employee was most frequently upgraded during the twelve (12) month period.  
225  
letter A  
[Defeted. ]  
Sideletter A]  
Written Stipulations  
Jt is agreed that all written stipulations, sideletters and other written agreements  
entered inta between ABC, Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary of Disney Enterprises, Inc., a  
wholly owned subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company, Inc., and the National  
Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians, the Broadcasting and Cable  
Television Workers Sector of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC,  
during the period from February 6, 1999 for the “B,’ “K,”” “O,” “R,.” and” T” Units  
and June 26, 1999 forthe “A,” “D7 “F" and “X” Units to March 31, 2003 will be  
deemed to be in ¢ffect for the period of the current contract. This will not apply to  
Stipulations, sideletters and other agreements which the parties have specifically  
canceled or which are modified by provisions of the current contract.  
Sidetetter AJ  
Special Severance Allowance  
The Union recognizes that the broadcasting industry is undergoing significant  
technological changes and improvements and gives the assurance that it will not prevent  
or impede such progress. The Company recognizes that employment of  
covered under the Engineering Agreement and the Traffic and Communications  
Agreement who have attained long years of service, may be affected by the new methods  
of operation. To this end it is agreed that a special severance allowance will be paid to  
employees covered by the aforesaid Agreements, having three (3) years or more of Linit  
Senionty, who are laid off due to reduction in force, as follows:  
Amount of Special  
Years of Unit Seniority Severance Allowance  
3-5 Years $2,500.00  
5 - 10 Years $5,000.00  
10 Years and Over $7,000.00  
Such special severance allowance shail be in addition to the severance pay  
provided for in Section 15.1 of the Master Agreement, and shall be disbursed  
contemporaneous with such severance pay. Payment of special severance allowance,  
however, is subject to the following qualifications and  
226  
(1)  
(2)  
   
If the employee at the time of layoff accepts a position in another department of  
the Company at a rate not more than twenty percent (20%) below the rate of the  
employee’s last position, he or she shall not be entitled to the specia] severance  
allowance unless the employee is subsequently laid off in the new position before  
he or she has completed six (6) months of service.  
An employee who is recalled or reemployed shall not be entitled to a second  
(2nd) special severance allowance unless, subsequent to his or her recal} or  
reemployment, the employee accumulates sufficient years of seniority to qualify  
him or her for another special severance allowance and is laid off. Service prior  
to the employee's reemployment shall in no event be counted for this purpose.  
The Company will endeavor to find other positions within its organization for  
employees having three {3} years or more of Unit Seniority who are scheduled to be Jaid  
off and will provide such employees, where possible, time off to be interviewed for  
positions outside of the Company during their regularly scheduled work day.  
Sideletter AK  
[Deleted,]  
Sideletter AL  
Washington, D.C. Engineering Agreement  
A. Definitions  
As used im this Agreement the term:  
(1) “employee” means a person who meets the definition of employee as  
contained in Section Al.1 of the Engineering  
Agreement and who is engaged by the Company in its Studio as  
defined herein;  
(2) “Studio” means the Company's Washington, D.C. Studio;  
(3) “Owned Statior:” means an Owned Station covered by the Master  
Agreement.  
227  
Sidetetter AL Contd  
B.  
C.  
   
Program Origination - Live and Video Tape Television  
The fotlowing provisions shall apply to the origination of tive programs and of  
video taped programs as set forth in Section A2.3(a)(1), (2) and (3):  
(t) Only engineers covered by the Master Agreement shall be assigned to  
perform duties covered by the Agreement with respect to  
programs originating in the Studio.  
(2) Program originations outside the Studio shail be made by engineers  
covered by the Master Agreement in accordance with the provisions of  
Sections 7.[ and A2.3(b) of the Master Agreement, with the Studio  
being considered an Owned Station for the purpose of determining the  
application thereof, upon the following conditions and exceptions:  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
(e)  
(f)  
Program onginations outside the Studio but within the  
limits of the District of Columbia shall be made  
by engineers covered by the Master Agreement, except for  
programs originating in the studios of ABC's Washington,  
D.C, affiliate.  
The applicable radius around the Studio, under Sections  
7. and A2.3(b)(t}, shall be seventy-five (75) miles.  
[Deleted. ]  
In the case of major public or news events which involve  
multi-point pickups, such as, but not limited to, Presidential  
Inaugurals, celebrations and parades, personnel of Owned  
Stations and/or affiliated stations may be used as in the past.  
(This is without prejudice to any position either party may  
take as to whether certain of those pickups in the past were in  
violation of the Master  
Employees hereunder may be assigned to supplement the  
crew of any Owned Station affiliate or other station, in the  
same manner as engineers of Owned Stations,  
{Deleted.]  
{3) [Delcted.]  
  
228  
dD. Transferees  
(1)  
{2)  
   
An engineering employee who transfers to the Studio from an Owned  
Station covered by the Master Agreement will have a three (3) year  
period, commencing with the start of the employee’s employment at the  
Studio, during which he or she may, under the conditions specified  
below, return at the employee’s own expense to his or her original  
office of employment if during the three (3) year pertod either of the  
following should occur:  
(a)  
(b)  
the Studio is closed down, or the operation is so curtailed that  
the transferee is to be laid off from the Studio; ar,  
the Company and the Union mutually agree that the  
transferee has been unable to adjust to the Washington  
operation even though there has been no change in the  
employee’s own skills and abilities.  
In the instances specified in (1} above, the employee will have the  
following rights:  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
The employee may return to his or her original office of  
employment if there is a vacancy at such office and if the  
transferee has more Unit Seniority than all employees on  
layoff from such office who have recall rights.  
The employee may return to his or her original office of  
employment, although there is no vacancy at such office, if the  
employee has more Unit Seniority than any one (1) employee at  
such office. In such case, an employec at such office will be  
laid off in accordance with the layoff provisions of the Master  
Agreement in order to permit the transferee’s return.  
The employee may not return to his or her original office of  
employment if there is no vacancy and no employee at such  
office with less Unit Seniority than his or her own. In such  
case, the transferee will be laid off from the Studio, and the  
transferee may elect to be placed in a layoff status from his or  
her origina] office of employment rather than from the Studio,  
in which case the transferee will have the recall privileges  
specified in Section 11.7 of the Master Agreement in reference  
to vacancies at his or her original office of employment.  
229  
Sideletter AL Cont'd  
(3)  
A transferee’s service at the Studio shall be included in his or her Unit  
Senionty at the office of employment to which the transferee returns on  
active or layoff status.  
E. Relative Senioriry  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
The employees of the Studio shall be on a separate Unit Senionity list.  
A former WMAL employee who was hired for the Studio before or  
during the first (Ist) thirty (30) days of operation of the Studio shail,  
for purposes of layoff, rehiring and vacation preference, be credited  
with one (1) week of Unit Seniority for each four (4) weeks of Unit  
Seniority at WMAL held by the employee at the time of his or her  
termination from WMAL (see Attachment A). Such seniority credit  
will not be given for severance pay or any other purpose not specified  
above.  
An employee covered by E(2) above shall receive credit for Pay  
Seniority based on his or her length of service in the comparable  
WMAL pay grade.  
Except as provided above, Company, Unit and Pay Seniority of al!  
employees of the Studio will commence with their first (1st) day of  
employment by the Studio,  
E Assignments  
(1)  
(2)  
Employees will have jurisdiction over the operation of rear screen  
projection devices, Ce!l-O-Matic machines, and similar devices and  
machines when used in connection with the rehearsa! and/or broadcast  
of live or tape television programs.  
Employees will have jurisdiction over sound effects when used in  
with the rehearsal and/or broadcast of live or tape television  
programs, subject to the following conditions:  
(a) The handling of sound effects (by disc, tape or any other  
means) may be assigned to an employee, in addition to any  
other duties assigned the employee, so long as such  
assignment is practical under the circumstances and imposes  
no unreasonable work burden on the employee.  
230  
   
Sideleter AL. Cont'd  
(b) In cases where the Producer of a program requests a sound  
effect which requires specialized skills or the operation of  
specialized equipment beyond the skills of the employees  
then employed at the Studio, the Company may assign such  
sound effect to personnel not covered by this Agreement or  
the Master Agreement.  
G, Term and Coverage.  
This Agreement which shall be co-terminous with the Master Agreement shall,  
except as specifically modified in Paragraph F hereof, cover those types of duties  
performed by employees covered by the Engineerng Agreement which is contained in  
the Master Agreement and, except as modified herein, it is the intent of the parties that  
the terms of the Master Agreement, where applicable, shall apply to employees  
hereunder,  
### ABC, INC.  
By ds/ Jeffrey Ruthizer  
Jeffrey Ruthizer  
Sentor Vice President, Labor Relations  
### NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCAST EMPLOYEES AND TECHNICIANS-  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, CLC  
By és/ John S. Clark  
John S, Clark  
Sector President  
{Deleted.]  
231  
Sideletier AN  
7.10), A2.3(6)(7)  
The following represents the understanding between the Company and Union  
reparding Section 7,1(i) and Section A2,3(b){(7) of the Master Agreement:  
In the event that the Union alleges that the Company is utilizing the provisions of  
either or both of the aforesaid Sections in such a manner as to cause the Unton to believe  
that a substantial threat to employment has been created by such utilization of the  
provisions, the Union may, upon notice to the Company, refer the matter to a Joint Study  
Committee to be comprised of two (2) Company and two (2) Union representatives and  
the Impastial Umpire acting as mediator. The Company may designate as one (1) of its  
a representative of NBC.  
Such Committee shall meet for the purpose of discussing and attempting  
resolution of the alleged problem. Any resolution thereof shall remain in effect and  
govern the application of such clause during the balance of the term of the Master  
Agreement.  
sideleter AQ  
[Deleted.]}  
sideletier AP  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter AO  
(Deleted.]  
Sideletter AR  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter AS  
Traffic Vacation  
This tetter will confirm the Company's staternent that with respect to requests by  
employees in the New York Traffic Department and the San Francisco Traffic  
Department for vacations outside the specified vacation period, in accordance with  
Section 19.10, the Company will not unreasonably withhold its consent, consistent with  
operating requirements.  
232  
   
Sideletter AT  
(Deleted.}  
Sudeletter AU  
[Deleted.}  
Sideletter AY  
[Deleted.] .  
Sideletter AW  
[Deleted.]  
sideletier AX  
Accidental Death and Dismemberment  
The following is intended as a clarification of the coverage of ABC’s Accidental  
Death and Dismemberment Policy:  
Frave! accident insurance applies to each covered employee from point  
of departure (e.g., the principa! office to which the employee is  
assigned, or the employee’s home only in instances where an employee  
goes directly from his or her home to cover an assignment) the  
employee retums to point of departure. This covers employees not only  
when traveling by common carrier, but also when they are on  
assignment outside of the principal office to which they are assigned.  
The application of this Policy under any circumstances will be subject to all  
terms and conditions of that Insurance Policy.  
Sideletter AY  
Fonts  
The Company may fonts generally available to the broadcast consumer  
from any outside source or supplier. Notwithstanding any other provision(s) of the  
Master Agreement, cues and/or instructions may be given to an operator of such devices  
by authorized production personnel, provided, however, that cues and/or wil!  
not be given to such operators in a manner that wil) cause confusion, nor impose an  
unreasonable strain or workload on such operators.  
233  
Sideletter AY Contd  
The taking of cues and/or instructions hereunder shal) not constitute a precedent  
or practice and will not be cited in any proceeding between the parties.  
Sideletter AZ  
[Deleted.}  
Sideletter BA  
Mini Cam Lighting  
The following represents the understanding between the Company and the Union  
regarding Section A2.2(e}4 of the Master Agreement.  
The Company will not be obligated to assign NABET-C WA-represented  
engineering employees to lighting functions when otherwise required by Sectton  
A2.2(e)4 in those locations where currently another union has established jurisdiction  
over the lighting work for electronic camera pickups made by the Company in the field  
of news pursuant to an NLRB ruling, or by contract language supported by practice.  
Sideletter BB  
Stipulations (17) and (18) and Section A2.2(e)  
This will confirm our understanding that the deletion of the Company's proposals  
on Stipulations (17) and (18) in the 1977 negotiations for a new Master Agreement and  
the incorporation of certain of the provisions thereof in Section A2.2(e)  
of the Engineering Agreement shall not be deemed to have any substantive effect, nor  
shall it be deemed to create or diminish rights that either party otherwise has, or does not  
have, under the Master Agreement.  
Sideletter BC  
Video Tape Editing Equipment  
During the course of the 1977 negotiations for a new Master Agreement, the  
Company submitted proposals and counterproposals to the Union that included the  
expression “including video tape editing equipment” and subsequently deleted that  
expression from such proposals and counterproposats,  
This will confirm our understanding that the submission, and subsequent  
deletion, of such expression shall not be prejudicial to the rights of the Company and  
shall not be cited by either party in any arbitration or other proceeding.  
234  
   
Sideletter BD  
TD Work Rules  
In recognition of increased production complexity, the Company may designate:  
(a) certain network programs; and  
(b) local thirty (30) minute or longer news programs  
as requiring special in application of the TD work rules as those rules limit  
the issuing of production directions by the Director to the operators of technica!  
equipment. When a program has been so designated by the Company, the following will  
apply during the rehearsal and broadcast (or taping) of such programs:  
l. Notwithstanding any provision of the Master Agreement, production directions, as  
distinguished from technical instructions, may be given to the operators of technical  
equipment at any time during the rehearsa] and broadcast (or taping) of such  
programs by the Producer, Program Director(s) and/or Associate Director(s} subject  
to the operating procedures set forth in Paragraph 2 below. The number of Associate  
Directors who may issue production directions on any such program will not exceed  
two (2) times the number of Technical Directors who are assigned to that program.  
2. It is recognized that operating procedures on such programs must insure that:  
(a) the Technical Director is able ta maintain his or her responsibility for  
the production of a technically acceptable television production, and his  
or her responsibility for the technical performance of the entire  
assigned group of technicians engaged in lighting, video control, audio,  
camera and all other functions of a technical nature necessary to the  
production;  
({b) production directions to the crew, when not given by the Technicat  
Director, are given in a manner that will not cause confuston among  
members of the crew, nor impose an unreasonable strain or workload  
on the crew; and  
(c) the Technical Director is informed in advance of the specific methods  
and channels of communication by which crew members will be  
receiving production directions and the sources of such production  
directions. If the Technica) Director believes that 2 proposed procedure  
will adversely affect the production, the matter will be referred for  
immediate discussion by the Director of Engineering at  
235  
Sideletter BD Cont'd  
the appropnate Company office and the President of the Local Union  
(or his or her designee).  
3. At each office of the Company where programs have been designated pursuant to  
this Sideletter, there will be established a Technical Director Advisory  
Committee, consisting of two (2) Technical Directors designated by the Union,  
two (2} management officials of the Engmeering Department, the President of the  
Local Union (or his or her designee) and the chief Labor Relations official of that  
office {or his or her designee), which Committee will meet periodically to review  
the operation of the new procedures envisioned by this Sideletter and to discuss  
mutual problems and complaints by Technical Directors on the disposition of  
matters referred to the Director of Engineering and President of the Local Union  
under Paragraph 2(c) above. Individual Producers and/or Directors may be invited  
to participate in such meetings to facilitate a full discussion of the matters  
involved.  
4. With respect to technical surveys for programs to be originated by Network or  
Owned Station crews within the Continental United States (excluding Alaska),  
the Technical Director (or one (1} such Technical Director in the case of programs  
that utilize more than one (1) Technical Director) whom the Company anticipates  
assigning to the program must be assigned to the survey under the following  
circumstances:  
(a) such Technical Director is not unavailable due to another assignment on  
a network program or a local news program of thirty (30) minutes or  
longer, vacation or illness; and  
(b)} the broadcast or taping date is known at the time the survey is made;  
or, if not precisely known, the Company is firmly committed to tape or  
broadcast the program, the location is known and the broadcast or  
taping date is known within a period of two (2) weeks; and  
(c) the site of the pickup is one at which the Company has not previously  
done a pickup, or the site of the pickup is one at which the Company  
has previously done a pickup but the program in question requires  
major technical changes from other pickups at that site, provided, (i}  
that if such Technical Director, after attending the survey, is for good  
reason unavailable to act as Technical Director of the program, this  
shall not constitute a violation of this provision and (ii) this provision  
shall have no application to ENG pickups.  
236  
BD Contd  
5. In any situation where there is an agreement or a practice of production  
directions being given by persons other than the Producer, Program Director or  
Associate Director, the provisions of Paragraph 1] above which limits the category  
of persons other than the Technical Director who may give production direction  
to the technical crew, shall not be prejudicial to the position of the Company, nor  
shall this Sideletter have any effect on current practices with respect to  
issuance of production directions by Associate Directors to operators of video  
tape machines.  
Sideletter BE  
“In The Field”  
The parties recognize that as a result of the negottations for the 2003-2007  
NABET-CWA-ABC Master Agreement, the following paragraph is no longer applicable  
and has no substantive relevance any longer under the current Master Agreement as the  
result of changes in Section A8.2 and A&.7 but the parties have agreed to retain it here  
for historical purposes only, and only for the term of the 2003-2007 Agreement.  
- This will confirm our understanding concerning the interpretation of the term “in  
the field” as it is used in Section A&.7 of the Master Agreement with respect to video  
tape editors. The term “in the field” shall nat apply to engineers assigned primarily to  
edit video tape within the city limits of any television office of the Company, as defined  
in Section 11.4, provided, however, that a Tape Editor shall be “in the field” when  
assigned to a mobile unit containing editing equipment and the primary purpose of the  
assignment is to perform editing in such mobile unit.  
Sideletter BF  
[Deleted.]  
tter B  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter BH  
(Deieted.]  
237  
Sideletter BI  
TV Master Control  
Whenever a TY Master Control Engineer is on duty, at least one (1} such Master  
Control Engineer per shift will be classified Group 7. This will not require any  
upgradings for meal relief.  
Sideletter BJ  
Chicago Agreements No Longer In Effect  
It ts agreed that the following agreements are no longer in effect in the  
Company's Chicago office and are deemed by the parties to be null and void:  
(1) the undated “N and H” Agreement onginally made effective March 2,  
1959; and . ,  
(2) the agreement dated September 15, 1959 with respect to staffing in the  
Telecine Projection Room; and  
(3) the letter agreement dated November 5, 1968 altering the “N and H”  
Agreement on Election Night; and  
(4) any other agreement, whether written or oral, relating to or based upon  
items (1), (2) and (3} above.  
Sideletter BK  
[Deleted.]  
dideletter BL.  
Los Angeles Radio Program Coordinators  
This letter will confirm our understanding with respect to the Radio Program  
Coordinators Agreement in Los Angeles:  
Nothing in Sections T!.1 and T3.3 of the Agreement was intended to permit a  
person not in the Bargaining Unit to perform the duties listed in Sections T2.1{i} and  
(ii) of the Agreement; nor would anything in Sections T1.1 and T3.3 prohibit the  
establishment of a non-unit Radio Program Coordinator supervisory position,  
provided that the person filling such position did not perform | the duties listed i in  
Section T2.1{i) and (i). .  
238  
Sideletter BM  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletier BN  
  
Sideletter BO  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter BP  
News Inserts  
The deletion of the predecessor Sideletter BP was occasioned by the changes  
made in Sections 7.1 and A2.3 of the Master Agreement during the 1989 negotiations.  
As the result of these changes, it is understood and agreed that the Company may now,  
without limitation, accept and utilize outside-produced inserts of any Jength, including  
material supplied from outside news and other information-gathering subscription  
services (e,2,, APR CONUS, Potomac Video).  
Sideletter BO  
]  
Sideletter BR.  
Extended Leave af Absence Program  
### ARTICLE I - AIMS AND PURPOSES  
1.1 This Extended Leave of Absence Program is intended to extend to certain regular  
NABET-C WA-trepresented employees (hereinafter referred to as “employees” or  
“NABET-CWA-represented employees”) with differing personal and professional  
objectives the opportunity to enjoy additional periods of time away from the  
workplace and, at the same time, to protect the mterests of the Company. These  
employees will be granted a five (5), six (6) or seven (7) month leave of absence  
without pay. At the expiration of each such leave(s) of absence, the employee  
will return to active employment with the Company, subject to his or her  
applicable seniority nights, for a period(s) of five (5), six (6) or seven (7)  
consecutive months (hereinafter referred to as the “employment period”),  
probably in a vacation relief position.  
239  
Sudeletter BR Cont'd  
1.2  
1,3  
zed  
ae  
2.3  
In general, during the employment period, regular Company Personnel Policies  
now in effect and applicable to NABET-CWA-represented employees will prevail  
with limitations as noted further in this Program. During the leave of absence,  
only the Personnel Policies indicated itn this Program will prevail and regular  
Company Policy will be suspended.  
Employees m this Extended Leave of Absence Program may continue in it until  
age seventy (70), at which time they will be retired from active service in  
accordance with the ABC-NABET Retirement Trust Plan.  
### ARTICLE I] - ELIGIBILITY  
A NABET-CWA-represented employee, in order to be eligible to apply for this  
Extended Leave of Absence Program, must have ten (10) or more years of Total  
Company Seniority.  
Such application by an eligible employee must be made in writing to the Director  
of Personnel no later than any April Ist, to be effective in the twelve (12) month  
period commencing with October Ist of the year in which application was made,  
The Company will notify the employee no later than May Ist of the year in which  
application was made as to whether he or she was admitted into the Program.  
No more than thirty-five (35) employees may participate in the Program on a  
national basis in any given Program year without the express agreement of the  
Company. Any such participants shall be included in the maximum total set forth  
above. Once in the Program, an employee shall have priority to remain in the  
Program over other employees, except that employees who are less than fifty (50)  
years of age and have less than twenty (20) years of Total Company Seniority  
shall have to reapply annually in accordance with Section 2.2 in order to remain  
in the Program. Should the number of employees already participating in the  
Program, plus the number of new applicants in any year exceed such maximum  
number, the order of priority of such new applicants shall be established by their  
Total Company Senionty. It is understood that the Company retains the right to  
deny any employee the right to participate, and the exercise of that right shall not  
be subject to arbitration. The Company will also determine the dates of the  
leaves of absence, provided that in the event the dates so selected are not  
acceptable to the employee, he or she will be allowed to withdraw the application  
for admitiance to the Program without prejudice to his or her nights to reapply at  
a later date.  
240  
3.1  
  
4.1  
4.2  
4.3  
44  
Sideletter BR Cont'd  
Any person who replaces a Program participant shall be a temporary employee  
during the period of replacement, and Sections 3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7 and Article  
shal] be inapplicable to such person.  
### ARTICLE [Il - VACATION AND HOLIDAY PAYBACK DAYS  
During each year of participation in this Program, an employee will receive ina  
lump sum an amount of pay equal to one-half (1/2) of the vacation entitlement to  
which the employee would otherwise be entitled were the employce not  
participating in the Program. The payment will be in lieu of vacation and will be  
payable to the employee at the beginning of the leave of absence period.  
During each year of an participation in this Program only those  
- holidays set forth under Section 18.1 of the General Articles which fall during the  
employee's period of active employment shal] be treated pursuant to the  
provisions of Article XVIII.  
### ARTICLE IV - SICK LEAVE  
During each employment period, employees in this Program will be eligible for  
their normal sick leave with pay. Such leave will not extend beyond the end date  
of the scheduled employment period. If the illness or injury persists beyond that  
date, the employee will be placed on his or her normal leave of absence period  
without pay.  
If, while on the extended leave of absence in this Program, the employee  
becomes ill or injured and is unable to report for the work period when  
scheduled, the employee will be eligible for paid sick leave as of the date he or  
she was scheduled to be restored to the active payroll.  
Vacation pay and/or holiday payback days may be considered to augment sick  
leave in lieu of going on sick leave without pay. To the extent vacation pay  
and/or holiday payback days are paid under this provision they shall not be paid  
under Article III.  
All plans and/or policies of the Company involved in Paragraphs numbered 4.1,  
4.2 and 4.3 above are modified where necessary and insofar as applicable to the  
employees affected by said Paragraphs in order to conform to the provisions of  
those Paragraphs.  
241  
$.1  
6.1  
7.1  
8.1  
9.1  
  
### ARTICLE V - OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE  
During the employment period, employees in this Program may be granted leaves  
of absence in accordance with normal Company policy and the provisions of  
Article XIU.  
### ARTICLE VI - OTHER EMPLOYMENT  
An employee on extended leave of absence under this Program may accept  
outside employment provided that it does not interfere with the employce’s ability  
1o return to work upon expiration of such leave of absence and, further provided,  
that such outside employment does not continue following his or her return to  
work with the Company. However, an on extended leave of absence  
without pay will not! be permitted to work for or perform other services, part time  
or otherwise, with any company or person: (a) who 1s engaged in radio or  
television broadcasting; or (b} who is engaged in any field that is competitive  
with the Company; or (c} who is engaged as an actual or potential supplier of  
transcriptions, audio or video tapes or films.  
### ARTICLE VII - OBJECTIVITY IN THE PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES  
An employee in this Program, when on Extended Leave of Absence, will abide  
by the terms of the Company’s Policy on Objectivity in the Performance of  
Duties.  
### ARTICLE VIII - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE  
During the period of time an employee in this Program is on his or her leave of  
absence without pay, the employee will not be eligible for Unemployment  
Insurance.  
### ARTICLE [X - SEVERANCE  
Participation in this Program, since it is voluntary, will not entitle an employee to  
any severance pay.  
242  
### ARTICLE X - SENIORITY AND CONTINUOUS SERVICE CREDIT  
10.1. Seniority and Continuous Service Credit will continue to accrue while in this  
Program for ail purposes with the exception of the ABC-NABET Retirement  
Trust Plan service which will be governed as in Section ]1.1 below,  
### ARTICLE XI - RETIREMENT PLAN  
11.1 Each year of participation in the Program shall be considered to be a “complete  
year of service” and such year shail be considered a year of “continuous service”  
for all purposes under the ABC-NABET Retirement Trust Plan. The Company  
will contribute to the Plan during the leave as though the employee  
were in active employment in the job classification to which he or she is  
normatly assigned. Participating employees shall retain al] their nights under the  
Retirement Plan, including but not limited to, early retirement, disability  
retirement and the selection of available optional forms of retirement benefit.  
### ARTICLE XI - INSURANCE BENEFITS  
12.1. During the employment period the employee will be eligible to participate in the  
insurance plans of the Company set forth in Articles XXII and XX1X of the  
General Articles pursuant to the terms of such Articles XXL] and XXIX.  
12.2 While on leave of absence without pay the employee will be permitted to  
participate in the msurance plans of the Company set forth in Articles XXII and  
XXIX of the General Articles, provided that during the period of the employee’s  
leave of absence such employee shall make all employee contributions that he or  
she is otherwise obligated to make and that the employee shall also make all  
contributions that the Company ts otherwise obligated to make to provide  
coverage for such employee.  
### ARTICLE XIII - RETURN TO FULL-TIME WORK  
13:1 While participating in the Extended Leave of Absence Program, the employee  
shall have the privilege of requesting the right to return to full-time work,  
If in active employment when the employee makes the request, he or she will  
be dropped from the Program immediately, If the employee is on leave of  
absence under this Program at the time he or she makes the request, and if  
an appropriate opening exists, subject to applicable seniority provisions, the  
243  
Sidelener BR Cont'd  
14.1  
13.1  
employee shall be returned to work. This option can only be exercised once, and  
once exercised, such employee will thereafter be ineligible to participate m the  
Program, provided, however, that in cases of unusual hardship, this limitation may  
be waived by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company. Whenever  
an employee returns to work from a leave of absence period, the employee will  
return to the classification in which he or she was regularly employed  
immediately prior to such leave of absence period.  
### ARTICLE XIV - CANCELLATION  
The parties recognize that this Program differs substantially from the Program  
that has existed heretofore. Accordingly, the new Program shal] be considered  
experimental, and upon written notice by either party, served within ninety (90)  
days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement, the terms of Scctions 1.1, 2.1  
and 2.3 shall revert to those in the 1989-1993 Master Agreement during the next  
Program year. Moreover, decisions and practices which may develop regarding  
those provisions may not be considered a precedent or cited in any arbitration.  
### ARTICLE XV - COMPANY DISCRETION  
Notwithstanding any grievance settlement, arbitration award, practice or provision  
to the contrary in the Master Agreement, Sideletters, or any alleged assurances or  
promises made to any employee (if any), the Company shall have the sole  
discretion to determine whether or not to allow any cmployee to participate, or to  
continue to participate, in the Extended Leave of Absence Program. The  
Company’s decision shall not be arbitrable.  
[Grievance AW 0/-04 and any other similar grievance pending at any other office of the  
Company are withdrawn with prejudice.)  
Sideletter BS  
(Deleted.}  
Sideletter BT  
[Deleted.]  
244  
Sideletter  
Sideletter BU  
[ Deleted. |  
Sideletter BV  
{No  
Sideletter BW  
[No provision. ]  
Sideletter BX  
[No provision. ]  
Sideletter BY  
Quarterly Grievance Meetings  
In addition to the provisions of Section 20.3, the parties will establish a  
committee in each office of the Company described in Section of this Agreement  
that will meet for two (2) {or more than two (2} by mutual agreement) consecutive days  
in January, April, July and October of each year. The committee will consist of no more  
than two (2) Union representatives and no more than two (2} Company representatives,  
one (1) of whom shall be a representative of the Labor Relations Department who does  
not generally meet with the Local Grievance Committee. The Parttes may increase the  
number of persons on the cammittee by mutual agreement.  
The purpose of this committee will be to resolve outstanding grievances {whether  
referred to arbitration or not). If the Union and Company representatives mutually  
agree, the meetings of the committee shall take place outside the city limits of the  
Company office in question. BY gnevance resolutions shall be reduced to writing  
within fourteen (14) days following the meeting.  
In lieu of any other payments, the Union representatives shall receive eight (3)  
hours’ pay at their regular straight time rate for each day of attendance at such meetings,  
except for a representative who is on a leave of absence pursuant to Article XIII, who  
shall receive no compensation except as provided in Sideletter CS. In no event shall the  
provisions of Article VII or XVI apply to a Union representative attending such  
meetings.  
245  
Sideletter BY Contd  
The meetings of this committee must take place in the months specified above  
unless the parties mutually agree to reschedule a meeting.  
Sideletter BZ  
{No provision.}  
Sidclettcr CA  
Radio Combo  
l. Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices, or  
provisions of the Master Agreement or any other agreements to the contrary, the  
parties agree that the engineering jurisdiction of the Union in radio shall be  
limited as fotlows:  
{a} the operation of technical equipment in radio may, at the discretion of  
the Company, be assigned to NABET-CWA-represented engineers,  
NABET-CWA-represented employees cavered by the “D”, “F", “K",  
“O”, “T” and “X" Agreements, or to persons not covered by the  
NABET-ABC Master Agreement;  
{b) ihe maintenance of technical equipment in the Company’s permanent  
studios and transmitters wil! apply only to those maintenance positions  
occupied by NABET-C WA-represented engineering employees as of  
Match 31, 1993, and any additional maintenance positions created  
during the term of the 1993 Master Agreement. Except as provided for  
in the preceding sentence, the maintenance and repair of technical  
equipment in radio may, at the discretion of the Company, be assigned  
to NABET-C WA-represented engineers or to persons not covered by the  
Master Agreement. The unanticipated replacement or adjustment of  
defective equipment or components (e.g. microphones) necessary in  
order to ensure uninterrupted broadcasting shall not be deemed  
Thaintenance or repair within the of the Union.  
[t is understood that under no circumstances shall operation, maintenance and  
repair of technical equipment in radio by any persons not represented by NABET-  
CWA result in such persons being covered by the provisions of the Master  
Agreement, nor shal] the operation, maintenance and repair of technical  
equipment in radio by NABET-CWA-represented employees result in any  
expansion of NABET-CWASs jurisdiction as set forth in Paragraph 1 above, or  
give to any such employees any right to continue to perform such work.  
246  
sideletter CA Contd  
3. It is understood that in the event a NABET-C WA-represented radio engineering  
employee dies, retires, resigns, voluntanly transfers, is promoted, is discharged  
for just cause, is ill, is on short or long term disability or other leave of absence  
or is unable to report for work for any reason, the Company is not required to  
replace such a NABET-CWA-represented engineer with another NABET-CWA-  
represented employee and can, if it so elects, employ a non-NABET-CWA-  
represented employee to perform this same work.  
4, In the event the Company at any time relocates its permanent Network Radio  
operations to a facility outside of 25 miles of the Company's permanent Network  
Radio facilities in existence on March 31, 1993, the Company wilt be permitted  
to layoff all NABET-C WA-represented employees pursuant to the provisions of  
Sideletter CA-2, and thereafter, NABET-CWA shall have no engineering  
jurisdiction at any such new network radio facility.  
Sideletier CA-1  
Radio Maintenance  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices, or  
provisions of the Master Agreement or any other agreements to the contrary, at each  
radio station and radio Network facility at which a NABET-CWA-represented engineer(s)  
are employed, management engineering supervisors (including but not limited to Chief  
Engineers, Assistant Chief Engineers, Directors and Assistant Directors of Engineering,  
etc.) may maintain technical equipment of the radio station or Network facility to which  
they are reguiarly assigned.  
Sideletter CA-2  
Radio Terminations  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article XI, Article XIV or any other provisions  
of the Master Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, the Company shall have  
the right, in its sole judgment, to terminate certain employees in Network and Local  
radio, under the terms and conditions recited below. In the exercise of its sole judgment,  
the Company shall give consideration to an employee's seniority, but the Company’s  
evaluation of such employee’s skill and ability to perform the work covered by NABET-  
jurisdiction in radio shall be the determining factor.  
(i) Each employee whose employment in radio is to be terminated pursuant to  
the provisions of this Sideletter CA-2 shall be placed on a special leave of  
absence with full base pay and shal] continue to receive all applicable benefits  
under the same terms and conditions as if he or she were actively at work, for a  
period not to exceed six (6} months after his or her last day of work in radio  
247  
   
Sideletter CA-2 Contd  
(ii)  
(iil)  
(iv)  
(v)  
as determined by the Company.  
During the period of such leave, each employee shall be free to apply for any  
available NABET-CWA-represented job with the Company for which such  
employee believes he or she may be qualified, either presently or after a period of  
on-the-job training which the Company may be willing to offer. The Company  
will give consideration to each such application received.  
If the Company, in its sole judgment, agrees to employ any such in any  
classification in any non-radio separate seniority group covered by the Master  
Agreement, the employee’s Jeave of absence shal! terminate and he or she shall  
return to work in such new separate seniority group. The Company will provide  
such employce with whatever training it deems necessary to permit him or her to  
adjust to his or her new duties. Such employee shall be credited, for seniority  
purposes in his or her new separate seniority group, with al] the seniority which  
he or she accrued while he or she was employed in radio, plus the period of such  
paid leave of absence.  
Any employee employed by the Company pursuant to (iii) above may be  
terminated by the Company, in its sole judgment, not earlier than six (6) months,  
and not later than eight (8) months, after his or her employment in the new .-  
scparate senionty group, if the Company determines that the employee's joh  
performance has been unsatisfactory and will not sufficiently improve within a  
reasonable time even with additional traming. Any such termination shall not be  
subject to arbitration.  
Each employee whose employment in radio is terminated by the Company and  
who is not employed by the Company within six (6) months after his or her last  
day of work in radio, or who is employed and subsequently terminated pursuant  
to (iv) above, shall receive, upon the execution of a General Release in a form  
satisfactory to the Company, a special payment equal to two (2} months’ base pay  
for each year of Total Company with a minimum of twelve (12) and a  
maximum of thirty-six (36} months’ base pay (minus normal deductions), which  
shall include the number of months’ pay received while such employce was on  
the paid leave of absence provided for in (i) above. This special payment shall be  
in lieu of any and al] severance pay to which such employee might otherwise be  
entitled pursuant to the provisions of Article XV. In the event the employee elects  
not to execute the General Kefease, he or She shail receive severance pay in  
accordance with Article XV in lieu of the special payment provided herein.  
248  
Sideleiter CA-2 Cont'd  
(v1) Each employee who receives a special payment pursuant to {v) above shall also  
be eligible for a special tuition reimbursement for up to two (2) years of  
vocational study for retrainmg for a new job, up to a maximum reimbursement of  
Twelve Thousand Doltars ($12,000.00), Such study must commence within two  
(2) years after such employee's last day of employment with the Company.  
Reimbursement shall be made after providing the Company with evidence of  
completion of course work on a semester or equivalent basis. In addition, each  
employee so terminated shall be eligible for Company-provided outplacement  
counseling for a period of three (3) months after his or her last day of work.  
(vii) Any employee reemployed by the Company pursuant to (iii} above who is not  
terminated pursuant to (iv) above, but who may thereafter be terminated or laid  
off, shall not be entitled to the specia] payment provided herein.  
Sideletter CA-3  
Radio Terminations  
This will confirm our agreement and understanding that the Company will not  
exercise its night to terminate NABET-C WA-represented radio engineering employee(s}  
employed in network and local radio as of July 20, 1989 in operational positions and as  
of April 1, 1993 in maintenance positions pursuant to the provisions of Sideletter CA-2  
in order to replace these employee(s) with persons not covered by the NABET-C'WA-  
ABC Master Agreement who are employed primarily to perform the engineering work  
previously done by such terminated NABET-C WA-represented engineers.  
In the event a NABET-CWaA-represented radio engineer whose employment is  
subject to termination pursuant to Sideletter CA-2 volunteers and is accepted by the  
Company to be terminated under Sideletter CA-2, the Company may replace such  
engineer with a non-NABET-CWA-represented employee to perform the same work.  
Sideletter CA-4  
Last Hour Lunch - Radio  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Master Agreement,  
Sideletters and Stipulations, or in any practices, grievance settlements or arbitration  
awards, at the Company’s local and network radio operations the Company may assign  
a “last hour lunch” to any NABET-CWA-represented employee, provided that such  
“last hour” lunches shall not be assigned on an irregular basis to the employees  
scheduled to work such shifts. In situations when an employee on such a “last hour  
249  
Sidelenter CA-4 Cont'd  
lunch” schedule is required to work the eighth (8th) or subsequent hours instead of  
leaving at the end of the seventh (7th) hour of work, overtime shall commence for all  
work performed commencing with the eighth (8th) hour of work, and the meal period  
shall nevertheless still be given.  
ideletier CA-  
Board Shifts  
For those local radio stations which elect to utilize this provision, (except  
WABC-AM and WPLJ-FM which are provided for in the WABC/WPLJ Operational  
Understanding) NABET-C WA-represented employees will not, under most  
circumstances, be assigned “board shifts” in excess of four (4) hours for live programs  
originating in the studios of local stations, except for weekends and overnights when  
“board shifts” for such live programs wil! not, under most circumstances exceed  
five (S) hours. Both parties recognize that there may be special situations where  
operating requirements require longer “board shifts” than four (4) or five ($) hours.  
For the purposes of this provision, the broadcast of live sporting events (e.g. Devils  
Hockey) shall be considered a live in the event that a NABET-CWA-  
represented employee in the studios of the local radio station is assigned to the  
broadcast of those games. '  
Sideletter CA-6  
Sideletter CA-2 Statement of Interpretation  
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in the ABC-NABET-  
CWA Master Agreement, Sideletters, and Stipulations, or any practices, grievance  
settlements and arbitration awards, this letter will serve to confirm our specific  
substantive agreements and understandings reached as the result of a series of radio  
meetings which were held between December 1989 and March 1990 and subsequent  
discussions held during the 1993 contract negotiations regarding the interpretation of  
Radio Sideletter CA-2 of the ABC-NABET-CWA Master Agreement that will be  
applicable to our covered network and local radio operations nationwide. Subject to the  
provisions herein, the term of this Agreement shall be co-terminus with that of the ABC-  
NABET-CWA Master Agreement. -  
In no event is any provision contained herein intended in any way to limit or  
restrict the Company’s jurisdictional nights contained in the 1989-93, the 1993-97, the  
1997-2003 or the 2003-2007 ABC-NABET-CWA Master Agreements.  
250  
Sidel CA-6 Cont'd  
Terminated radio engineers on a special leave of absence with pay pursuant to  
paragraph (i) of Sideletter CA-2 shall continue to acenic seniority for all  
purposes while on such paid leave, For example, a radio engineer whose total  
service would not qualify him or her for the maximum allowable special payment  
and who commences his or her special paid leave of absence with 8 years and 8  
months of total Company seniority shall, after the expiration of the six-month  
special leave of absence, and after the execution of a General Release in a form  
satisfactory to the Company, receive a special payment, pursuant to the  
termination formula, based upon nine years and two months of total Company  
seniority as the result of the enginecr’s accrual of an additional six months of  
total Company seniority while on the special feave of absence.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood that any period of time spent  
working in following the termination from radio described above shal]  
not be used to enhance the calculation of the special payment (should he or she  
be under the three year maximunt) at the time of the employee's termination from  
the Company if he/she does not remain in television. Should a terminated radio  
employee elect to interrupt his/her special leave of absence to accept a position in  
television, he/she shall continue to receive full credit for up ta the six-month  
period of such leave while working in tclevision. [n no event, however, can a  
combination of leave and/or television work provide an employee who is under  
the maximum with more than six month’s additional accrual of service for  
purposes of the special payment. (In the example given above in paragraph (1},  
if the employee began a period of television service two months following the  
commencement of his/her special paid leave of absence and was terminated seven  
(7) months thereafter, the amount of the special payment would still be based on  
nine years and two months of service; (i.e., the remaining four months of special  
leave of absence that had not yet been taken at the commencement of the  
television service would run concurrently with the first four months of the seven-  
month period of television service).  
It is understood and agreed that no radio engineer on paid leave of absence status  
shall have or accrue any seniority for any other purpose during any period of  
employment tn television, unless such employment results in a regular position in  
television at the end of the six to eight month trial period.  
. [fan employce is terminated at the conclusion of a six to eight month trial period  
in television, he shalt not be entitled by virtue of his television service to any  
notice of termination or severance pay for the period of service in television.  
251  
Si  
Terminated radio employees on paid leave of absence status or working on the  
six-ecight month trial basis described in CA-2 for a regular (not temporary or VR)  
position in television shall receive the benefit of contract pay increases and  
escalator step increases that may become effective during an employee's leave of  
absence period or period of television service. As an exception to the foregoing  
sentence, however, April 1, contractual increases and individual escalator step  
increases shali not count towards enhancing the amount of the special payment  
due an employee if either, or both, take place on a date subsequent to the date a  
person's six month paid leave of absence ended, or would have ended, absent any  
employment in television.  
Any radio engineer who is on a paid leave of absence pursuant to Sideletter CA-2  
and who is offered a regular NABET-CWA-represented position in television,  
may, for a period of forty-five (45) calendar days after starting the new position  
in television, elect to resign his employment and still be eligible to receive the  
special payment and special tuition reimbursement, after the execution of a  
General Release in a form satisfactory to the Company, pursuant to the terms and  
conditions contained in Sideletter CA-2 in the same total amount he would have  
been cligible to receive, prior to commencing his employment in television. Any  
radio engineer who elects to resign from a reguiar NABET-CWA-represented  
position in television after this forty-five (45) day period shall not be entitled any  
longer to receive, and shat! forfeit, the special payment and special tuition  
reimbursement pursuant to Sideletter CA-2, any severance pay pursuant ta Article  
XV of the ABC-NABET-CWA Master Agreement or any other payment. It is  
specifically understood that any radio engineer who accepts a regular NABET-  
CWaA-represcnted position in television and thereafter resigns either before or  
after the initial 45-day period shall not, under any circumstances, be entitled to  
return to or commence a paid leave of absence pursuant to Sideletter CA-2.  
The Company agrees to send all regularly published job postings to the homes of  
any NABET-CWA-represented engineer while on a paid leave of absence  
pursuant to Sideletter CA-2.  
(a) NABET-CWA-represented operations and maintenance engineers may  
be laid off pursuant to Section 11.6 without being offered the special  
payment and special conditions contained in Sideletier CA-2, provided  
that any non-NABET-CWA-represented maintenance engineers  
employed must be faid off prior to any layoff of NABET-CWA-  
represented maintenance engincers.  
252  
   
Sideletier CA-6 Cont'd  
(b) if there is a layoff of NABET-CWaA-represented operations and  
maintenance engineers in Radio Network, such engineers may be laid  
off pursuant to Section 11.6 of the Master Agreernent, provided that  
any non-NABET-CWA-represented maintenance engineers employed  
must be laid off prior to any layoff of NABET-CWA-represented  
maintenance engineers,  
(c) In the event the Radio Network’s permanent studios and facilities are  
relacated outside a 25 miles radius and NABET-C WA-represented  
engineers are not laid off but are offered and accept non-NABET-CWA  
. covered positions at any new or other Company location, such  
employees shall not be entitled to severance payments of any kind  
under any provision of the Master Agreement.  
i t -  
WABC-AM/WEPLJ Operational Understanding  
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in the ABC-NABET-  
CWA Master Agreement, Sideletters, and Stipulations, or any practices, grievance  
settlements and arbitration awards, this letter will serve to confirm our specific  
substantive agreements and understandings reached as the result of a series of radio  
meetings which were held between December 1989 and March 1990, and subsequent  
discussions regarding special operating conditions to be applicable only to New York  
local radio (1.¢., Station WABC (AM) and WPLJ}. Subject to the provisions herein, the  
term of this Agreement shalj be co-terminus with that of the ABC-NABET-CWA Master  
Agreement.  
In no event is any provision contained herein intended in any way to limit or  
restrict the Company’s jurisdictional nghts contained in the 1989-93, 1993-97, 1997-  
2003 or 2003-2007 ABC-NABET-CWA Master Agreements, nor is the inclusion of any  
provision herein with respect to the special operating conditions for WABC/WPLJ] meant  
or intended to confer rights which would not exist but for the existence of this  
Agreement, nor does the omission of any nghts, or the silence of this Agreement on any  
point suggest that any right(s} does not in fact exist.  
l. The agreements and understanding set forth in subparagraphs (a) through  
(e) below shall remain in effect from the date of this Agreement through  
December 31, 1999. In the event that the Company desires to terminate any  
or all of such subparagraphs on that date, it shall serve a written notice on the  
Union by no later than December 1, 1999. It is understood between the parties  
that if the Company desires to terminate any one of these paragraphs (a)  
through (e), all will be canceled. If the Company elects not to terminate such  
253  
   
Sidetetter CA-7 Cont'd  
subparagraphs, they shall automatically renew for additional one-year periods  
during the term of the 2003-2007 ABC-NABET-CWA Master Agreement, with  
the Company reserving the night to terminate them on December 3! of any  
subsequent year by serving written notice on the Union by no later than  
December | of that year.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a fundamental structural change,  
or a change in format by WABC-AM, subparagraphs (a) through (e) below shall  
be terminated immediately as they apply to both WABC-AM and WPLJ-FM. In  
the event the Company elects to cancel the agreements and understandings  
reached in subparagraphs (a} through (e), the parties agree to revert to the status  
guo anie this Agreement regarding their respective contractual positions on the  
issues involved herem. Paragraphs 2 through 5, however, shall remain in effect  
regardiess of the termination of subparagraphs (a) through (ec).  
(a) None of the following three (3) named engineers shall be taid off  
pursuant to Section 11.6 or involuntarily terminated pursuant to  
Sideletter CA-2; Frank D’Elia; Gene Maxwell; Sue Ronneburger.  
(b} No NABET-CWA-represented employee assigned to either WABC-AM  
or WPLJ-FM shall be entitled to “check in “time”, “wash-up time” or a  
scheduled break. It is recognized by the parties that hunch relief of a  
NABET-CWA-represented employee by another NABET-CWA-  
represented employee is no longer required under the contract.  
(c) NABET-CWA-tepresented employees will not, under most  
circumstances, be assigned “board shifts” in excess of four (4} hours  
for live programs originating in the studios of WABC-AM, except for  
weekends and overnight when “board shifts” for such live programs  
will not, under most circumstances exceed five (5) hours. Both parties  
recognize thal there may be special situations where operating  
requirements require longer “board shifts” than four (4) or five (5)  
hours, For the purposes of this the broadcast of live sporting  
events (e.g. Devils Hockey) shall be considered a live program in the  
event that a NABET-CWA-represented employee in the studios of the  
local radio station is assigned to the broadcast of those games.  
254  
{d) Each part-time talent/telephone coordinator employed by WABC-AM  
shall be entitled to receive an additional payment of Three Dollars  
($3.00) per hour, which shall not be considered part of their base rate  
for any reason, for each hour that such part-time employee is assigned  
by the Company both to screen telephone calls and operate a “board”  
simultaneously,  
(e) Part-time talent/telephone coordinators employed by WABC-AM may  
hereafter be assigned to perform any and all “engineering functions” in  
addition to the full-time talent/‘telephone coordinators who are  
permitted to do so by virtue of the 1989-1993 and subsequent ABC-  
NABET Master Agreements.  
In the event that any one or more of the three (3) named engineers referenced in  
subparagraph 1(a) above dies, resigns, is discharged for cause, retires, voluntarily  
transfers to another NABET-CWA or non-NABET-CWA-represented position in  
or outside of WABC-AM or WPLJ-FM, is ill, is on short or long term disability  
or other leave of absence or is unable to report for work for any reason, NABET-  
CWA acknowledges that under the Master Agreement the Company is not  
required to replace such an engineer with another NABET-C WaA-represented  
employee and can, if it so elects, employ a non-NABET-CWA-represented  
employee to perform this same work,  
Although both parties recognize that it is not contractually required to do so, it is  
the intention of the Company to continue utilizing a NABET-C WA-represented  
per diem for the one shift on either Saturday and/or Sunday at WABC-  
AM that is not presently assigned (as the result of the Company’s desire to  
accommodate its engineers) to one of the three (3} NABET-C WA-represented  
regular engineers listed in subparagraph 1(a). It is specifically understood that  
the Company ts permitted to utilize non-NABET-C WaA-represented staff or per  
diem employees in situation involving vacation, illnesses, or other temporary  
needs.  
The Company's prior practice of upgrading engineers in situations where  
judgment has been exercised shall cease, and such upgradings shall not be  
required in the future in similar situations.  
255  
   
3. A NABET-CWA-represented engineer may continue to schedule other NABET-  
CWA-represented employees at WABC-AM and WPLJ-FM. The Company and  
the Union agree that this assignment shall not, under any circumstances,  
constitute an expansion of existing jurisdiction pursuant to any provisions of the  
Master Agreement, nor shall the performance of this assignment by employees  
hereunder entitle any such employees to continue ta be given such assignment  
made pursuant to this provision, or the failure to make such an assignment, shall  
be subject to arbitration. Both the Company and the Union reserve the right to  
terminate this practice upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.  
6, Since the parties are in agreement that the Company is not required under the  
new contract to assign a NABET-CWA-represented employee to perform any  
work at any broadcast originating from outside the studios, the parties  
specifically recognize that no NABET-C'WA-represented employee is required to  
be assigned to Devils, or any ather remotes to be broadcast by WABC-AM or  
WPLJ-FM. The Company agrees that in future years it will consider the  
feasibility of assigning a NABET-CWA-represented engineer to pickups.  
Sideletter CB  
[No provision.]  
Sideletter CC  
Temporary Maimtenance Assignments  
This will confirm our understanding that Group 1, 2 or 5 employees may  
continue to perform maintenance functions on a temporary basis without being upgraded  
to Group 7. In the event an employee is regularly assigned to maintenance, including  
vacation relief employees, such employee shal] be paid pursuant to the wage schedules  
set forth under Group 7.  
Sideletter CD  
[Deleted.]  
256  
Sideletter  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter CD-2  
[Deleted.]  
Sideleter CD-3  
  
Sideletter CD-4  
[Deleted,]  
Sidejetier CE  
San Francisco News Sideletter  
This letter will confirm our understanding and agreement as follows:  
l, Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Award of Arbitrator  
Herbert Blumer, dated August 10, 1967, persons anchoring or co-anchoring  
television newscasts originated over the facilities of KGO-TV who do not fall  
under the exclusion set forth in Section F2.2 of the NABET-CWA-ABC Master  
Agreement may wnite, in the aggregate, twenty-five percent (25%) of the scripted  
material voiced by them in the programs on which they appear.  
2. The Awards of Arbitrator Arthur M. Ross, dated February &, 1960, and of  
Arbitrator Herbert Blumer, dated August 10, 1967, shall be deemed null and void  
with respect to KGO-AM.  
3 It is understood and agreed that compliance with the standards set forth in  
Paragraph | hereof is to be evaluated over a period of time not to exceed six (6)  
months, and not as to specific individual programs.  
257  
ideletier nt  
During the term hereof, four (4) members of the San Francisco NABET-CWA  
Newswriters-Producers Unit shall be designated as Assignment Editors, one (1)  
of whom shall be designated in the KGO-Radio News Department and three (3)  
of whom shall be designated in the KGO-TV News Department and shall  
perform “desk functions” as designated by management. The Company, in its  
discretion, may designate more than four (4) members of the Unit as Assignment  
Editors and may change any designated Assignment Editor. The Assignment  
Editor may perform, in addition to his or her desk functions, the duties specified  
in Sections F1.1 and F2.1 of the Master Agreement. Except for illness in excess  
of one {1} week and vacations, the absence of a designated Assignment Editor  
shall not require the assignment of another designated Assignment Editor, even  
though desk functions are being performed. Nothing shall preclude department  
heads, assistant department heads, assignment managers, producers not covered  
by the Master Agreement pursuant to Sideletter FG or other supervisory  
employees with the authority to hire and fire employees from performing any  
assignment editor or desk functions.  
For each day that a member of the San Francisco NABET-CWA Newswniters-  
Producers Unit serves as a designated Desk Person pursuant to Paragraph 4  
hereof, he or she shall receive in addition to his or her regular compensation, the  
sum of Twenty Dollars ($20.00).  
Ifa member of the Unit receives the Desk Person fee for at least one hundred  
thirty (130) days during the previous calendar year, he or she shall receive in  
addition to his or her regular vacation pay, the daily Desk Person fee for each day  
of his or her scheduled vacation, but in no event more than five (5} times the  
daily Desk Person fee per week while on vacation.  
The classification of Desk Assistant set forth in Section F3.10 shall be deemed to  
apply only to KGO-TV. In lieu thereof, the classification of Editorial Assistant  
shall apply to KGO-AM on the basis of the following terms and conditions:  
(a) Editorial Assistants shall perform a variety of general duties to assist  
the news staff. These duties may inchide, but shall not be limited to,  
monitoring and mechanical attendance to News Department teletype,  
photofax and xerox machines; arranging, distributing and filing of wire  
copy, mundowns and other news associated material; monitoring and  
logging incoming news programs or news segments; telephone  
258  
{b)  
checking as assigned; arranging for graphics; messenger duttes;  
assisting in answering and placing telephone calls, and other general  
duties of a similar nature related to the news operation.  
(i)  
(ii)  
(iti)  
(iv)  
The Company and the Union recognize the desirability of  
establishing opportunities for Editorial Assistants to obtain  
training in duties ordinanly performed by Newswriters. This  
may include the rotation of assignments to different units of  
operations, It is understood, however, that the Company shall  
not be obligated to promote Editorial Assistants to regular  
Newswriter positions, except as may be required by the  
upgrading provisions set forth below,  
As part of their training, Editorial Assistants may perform  
limited Newswriter duties of a routine nature. [n addition, an  
Editorial Assistant may be assigned to write individual items  
of greater importance in order to gain experience and be  
given instruction and entictsm.  
The duties set forth in the Paragraph above may be performed  
by Editorial Assistants without upgrading. However, if the  
Union believes that such additional assignments are being  
misused to the extent that an Editorial Assistant is  
performing the general functions of a Newswniter, the  
Company, after due notice from the Union, will discontinue  
such practice with regard to such Editoria! Assistant, unless  
when such functions are performed, he or she is upgraded in  
accordance with the provisions below.  
An Assistant who is upgraded to a  
Newswriter position shall be paid for such higher  
classification during the period of such upgrade for not less  
than a full tour of duty as follows:  
1. If the upgrade is for onc (1) or two (2) days ina  
workweek, the Editorial Assistant shali be paid for  
such one (1) or two (2) days at the applicable salary  
scale, plus any applicable commercial wnting fees  
or Producer fees.  
259  
(v)  
(vi)  
(vii)  
   
2. If the upgrade is for three (3) or more days in a  
workweek, the Editorial Assistant shall be paid at  
the applicable salary scale for the week, plus any  
applicable commercial writing fees or Producer  
fees for the days on which he or she was actually  
upgraded.  
3. The upgrading provided in this Paragraph (b) shali  
not apply to meal period or personal relief unless  
such relief exceeds rwo (2) hours in a day.  
An Editorial Assistant who, beginning on the execution dale  
of this Agreement, is upgraded for a total of more than fifty-  
two (52) weeks, not necessarily consecutive, shall thereupon  
be reclassified as a Senior Editorial Assistant, is not the  
intent of the Company to schedule for the purpose of  
avoiding such reclassification.  
An Editorial Assistant who is temporarily upgraded to a  
Newswriter position shall be paid the applicable Newswriter  
rate equal lo or neat above his or her salary at the time of the  
upgrade.  
An Editorial Assistant who has been upgraded to a  
Newswriter position on a permanent basis shall, for a period  
of one (1) year after such upgrading, retain the Unit Seniority  
of his or her Editorial Assistant classification and the Unit  
Seniority acquired in the Newswniter classification shall be  
added to thai of the Editorial Assistant classification for the  
purposes of determining his or her Unit Seniority within the  
lower prade. In the event of a layoff in the Newswriter  
classification, such an Editorial Assistant who may be  
affected because of lack of Unit Seniority in the Newswriter  
classification shall have the right to transfer on the basis of  
Unit Seniority to the Editorial Assistant classification at the  
maximum rate provided therefor. 11 is understood that this  
procedure may require the layoff of another Editorial  
Assistant with less Unit Seniority. After a period of one (1)  
year in a regular Newswriter position, such “bumping” right  
shall not be available to the Editorial Assistant and he or she  
shall have only the Unit Seniority obtained in the Newswriter  
classification.  
260  
Sideletter CE Conv’  
In filling News or News Special Events Writer vacancies the Company will give  
consideration to Editorial Assistants who apply to fill such vacancies.  
Sections 3.5 and 3.6 of the General Articles are modified only to the extent that  
Editorial Assistants shall be temporary employees for a period of six (6) months  
from the date of their employment with the Company and shall thereafter be  
regular employees.  
The wage cates applicable to Editoria! Assistants shall be as follows:  
8/9/03- $/7/04- $/6/05- 8/5/06-  
Months 8/6/04 3/5/05 3/4/06 3/31/07  
0-6 $507.50 $522.50 $538.00 $554.00  
6 & Over 549.50 566.00 583.00 600.50  
Senior  
Editorial  
Assistant 573.00 590.00 607.50 625.50  
Part-time/hr $13.89 $14.31 $14.74 $15.18  
A waiver by either party of any of the terms and conditions of this agreement in  
any instance shall not be deemed or construed to constitute a waiver of any  
preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other term or condition.  
Except as expressly provided herein to the contrary, this agreement is subject to  
the terms and conditions of the NABET-CWA-ABC Master Agreement and  
specifically to the terms and conditions of Article F thereof.  
This Sideletter shal] continue in effect until terminated as follows:  
(i) Either party shall have the right to terminate this Sideletter at the end of  
ariy full year of the term of the NABET-CWA-ABC Master Agreement  
upon two (2) weeks’ prior written notice to the other.  
(ii) In the event the Company is found by an arbitrator or Impartial Umpire  
to be in breach of the standards set forth in Paragraph t hereof and/or  
in the event of a layoff involving NABET-CWA Newswritets at KGO-  
Radio and/or KGO-TV which shall have the result of reducing the  
Unit below the number of employees employed at KGO-TV as of  
26]  
Sideletier CE Cont'd  
June 1, 1974, and/or at KGO-AM as of April 21, 1983, NABET-CWA  
shall have the right to terminate this Sideletter upon two (2) weeks’  
prior written notice to the Company.  
13. All pending grievances and arbitration cases on the matters covered herein will  
be closed as moot, The closing of any grievance hereunder shall be without  
prejudice to the position of either party, and practice following the date any such  
grievance was filed may not be cited in any future case.  
Sideletter CF  
Stipulation (19) - Rehiring  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 6(b)(ii) of Stipulation (19), all  
persons on the respective vacation relief lisis in Los Angeles and New York as of  
December 31, 1980 who remain on such tists in subsequent calendar years shall be  
rehired in any calendar year not than any vacation relief employees who are not on  
the vacation relief list in their respective Company offices.  
Sideletter CG  
[Deleted.]  
tter CH  
[No provision.]  
Sidelener Cl  
Traffic Coordinator 6A - Supervisory Functions  
In addition to the duties of the Traffic Coordinator set forth in Section B2.2, the  
Company in its discretion shall have the right to assign to a Supervisory Traffic  
Coordinator “supervisory” of the type performed by upgraded employees in  
units covered by the Master Agreement other than the “B” Unit.  
262  
   
Sideletter CJ  
Traffic Coordinator Remote Assignments  
This is to confirm our agreement and understanding that prior to the  
commencement of any of the remote pickups referred to in Section B2.4,  
the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the terms, conditions and  
duration of the required assignment of a Traffic Coordinator to such pickups.  
Sideletter CK  
{Deleted.]  
Sideletter CL  
(No provision. |  
Sideletter CM  
New York Graphic Artists  
This will confirm our agreement as 10 the employment of persons as New York  
Graphic Artists:  
1. The term “employee” as used herein applies to al] eraployees of the Company  
employed as Graphic Artists in the News Graphic Arts Department and the  
Production Services Graphic Arts Department in the New York City metropolitan  
area, excluding al) other employees, guards and supervisors as defined in the  
National Labor Relations Act, as amended.  
2. The duties of employees covered hereunder shall include the execution of all  
graphic arts work done by the employees of the Company in the New York City  
metropolitan area for TV broadcasting consistent with past practice and shall also  
include the execution of non-broadcasting graphic arts work consistent with past  
practice. It is also understood that the Company may subcontract work covered  
by the preceding sentence consistent with past practice. However, it is further  
understood that nothing contained in either of the foregoing sentences shall be  
deemed to confer rights upon either the Company or the Union that neither had  
prior to the effective date of this Agreement, nor shall anything contained therein  
be deemed to diminish rights that either the Company or the Union had pnor to  
Such effective date.  
263  
Sideletier CM Contd  
Nothing heretn shall prejudice the position of either party with respect to its  
position to its ights on scope or subcontracting prior to such effective date.  
Subcontracting may not be utilized for the purpose of reducing the staff. Where  
there may be a question as to the propriety of subcontracting, the matter may be  
gneved pursuant to the provisions of Section 20.10. The employees described  
above, except for daily hires, may be upgraded to perform duties that are  
performed exclusively by NABET-CWA-represented engineers within the other  
classifications and at the other minimum wage scales set forth in Article A-IL] of  
### the Engineering Agreement.  
3. { Deleted.)  
4. {a}  
(b)  
(c)  
(Deleted. ]  
Ifa wntten work-related complaint abou! an employee is made a pan of  
the employee’s record, such employee will be given the particulars of  
such complaint in writing, Any written response by the affected  
employee will likewise be made a part of such record.  
It is the intention of the Company that air credit will be given on at  
least one {}) evening program per day, if feasible (otherwise, or if so  
requested by the Union, a daytime program) to an artist named by the  
Company actually doing graphic art work on such specific program,  
provided the Company has the sole and free discretion ta give such  
credit. In addition to the above, if a Graphic Artist has been regularly  
assigned to execute and prepare graphics work for a Company-  
produced program and the entire staff of that program receives visual  
credit on an anniversary program, or a Christmas program of that  
program series, the Company shall usc its best cfforts to ensure that  
such Graphic Artist(s} will receive credit along with the rest of the  
staff.  
Prior to the operational) use of new equipment, the Company will notify  
NABET-CWA of its decision to use the equipment in order that any  
operational problems involved may be discussed.  
Sideletter CM-|  
264  
   
ideletter CM-2  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletters CN through CR  
[No  
idele  
Short-term Union Leave of Absence  
This will confirm our agreement that the following shall be applicable to a  
NABET-CWA-represented employee who is a participant in the Company's Savings and  
Investment Plan and who is placed on a short-term leave of absence for Union activity of  
ten (10) or less working days, and for whom it is reasonably anticipated that such  
employee will not be on leaves of absence for Union activity for more than a total of  
thirty (30) working days in any calendar year:  
l. Up to a maximum of thirty (30) days in any calendar year, such employee will  
remain on the Company payroll at his or her base salary during the period of  
such leave.  
NABET-CWA will promptly reimburse the Company for the following payments  
made by the Company during each period of leave while the employee  
on the Company’s payroll] pursuant to Paragraph 1 above:  
(a) the employee’s base salary;  
{b} the Company’s contribution to the Savings and Investment Pian on  
behalf of such employee; and  
(c) other amounts, including but not limited to payroll taxes, which will be  
paid by the Company ys the result of such employee remaining on the  
Company’s payroll during the period of such leave.  
The parties agree that nothing in this Sideletter CS shall be deemed to augment,  
expand or diminish the provisions of Section 13.3, which shall continue to be the only  
provision in the Master Agreement which grants a right to a leave of absence for Union  
activity.  
265  
idel  
[Deleted.]  
[Deleted.]  
Sideleiter CV  
New York Desk Assistants  
This wil] confirm our understandings on the following matters concerning New  
York Desk Assistants:  
The Company agrees that it wili not, for the purpose of defeating or evading this  
transfer responsibility to any third party for any part thereof, nor  
change its operations, nor transfer its operations, in whele or in part io other  
places.  
The Company agrecs to provide bulietin boards suitably placed for the use of the  
Union.  
The Company recognizes that during the first (1st) week of employment, a new  
employee may require familiarization with the area of the Company’s operations  
to which he or she is assigned and, subject to reasonable operating priorities, the  
Company will provide such familiarization. The Company shali make reasonable  
arrangements to provide the familiarization without creating an excessive amount  
of overtime for any other employee. This provision is not applicable to  
temporary  
In an attempt to resolve the problem of locked space for personal items, it is  
agreed that each area (e.g., WABC-TV News) in which the Desk Assistants work  
will be surveyed and every effort will be made to provide lockable storage areas.  
Desk Assistant duties do not include the performance of personal errands,  
Scheduling practices in each area shall continue as heretofore, however, the  
Company agrees to give seniority prime consideration if any employee who has  
had an “overnight” assignment for more than six (6) consecutive months  
requests rotation.  
266  
Sigeletier CV Contd  
7 The word-change in the last sentence of the first paragraph in Article D-II  
(Duties) from “general duties” to “general clerical duties” ts not substantive, and  
does not change the general duties performed by the Desk Assistants as  
heretofore.  
Sideletter CW  
Editonal Standards  
In preparing the text of the 1985-1989 NABET-ABC Master Agreement for  
printing, it was agreed by the Company and the Union that an attempt should be made to  
standardize punctuation, capitalization and spelling throughout the Agreement, as well as  
to cure obvious grammatical and typographical] errors which have found their way into  
the text during past years and which have been inadvertently preserved each time the  
Agreement has been reprinted.  
The following “conventions,” have been used in standardizing the text of the  
1985-1989 and successor Master Agreements:  
No Capitalization:  
. “local committee”  
- “employee”  
- “ctaff newswriters”’  
Initial Capitalization:  
- “Initiation Fee”  
- “Network”  
: Holidays specifically named (“Christmas a  
“Owned Station”  
- Capitalization required by dictionary  
- Money numbers (“One Hundred Dollars”)  
- “Unit.” “Unit Seniority” and “Bargaining Unit”  
- Specific sections, paragraphs, subparagraphs  
- Titles of positions  
- “ENG” and other acronyms  
- “Local”  
- “A.M.” and “P.M.”  
267  
Words:  
“ “videotape” should be “video tape,”  
except when used as a verb  
. “re-create,” “re-classify,* and “re-record,” should  
be “recreate,” “reclassify,” and “rerecord™  
- a “News Writer” should be “Newswriter”  
“re-engage” should be “reengage”  
- “nay check” should be “paycheck”  
> “sub-contract” should be “subcontract”  
- “push to talk” should be “push-to-talk”  
- “work load,” “work day” and “work weck” should  
be “workload,” “workday” and “workweek”  
- “pick-up” should be “pickup”  
- “lay-off” should be “layoff”  
- “make-up” should be “makeup”  
- gender neutralize all pronouns  
Other Conventions:  
- repeat all numbers (not just dollar amounts), but nat “once”  
- use semicolons in sentences with (3) and (ii), ete.  
- numbers of Stipulations always in parenthesis  
In addition, questions of grammar and punctuation were resolved in accordance  
with the rules set forth in & Dictionary of Modern English Usage (2d. edition) by H. W.  
Fowler and The Elements of Style by William Strunk, Jr. and E. B. White.  
None of the changes made in preparing the text of the Master Agreement for  
printing is intended to have any substantive effect whatsoever. [n the unlikely event a  
dispute arses because either party believes that any such change has inadvertently  
altered the substantive meaning of a provision of the 1985-1989 NABET-ABC Master  
Agreement, it is agreed that in the resolution of such dispute, whether by arbitration or  
by other means, the grammar and punctuation in the predecessor 1981-1985 Master  
Agreement shall be deemed  
### CX  
Electronic Newsroom  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or any  
provisions to the contrary in either the General Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or any  
of the Individual Articles contained in the Master Agreement:  
268  
(1)  
(2)  
   
Persons other than NABET-CWA-represented engineering employees, including  
but not limited to employees covered by the “F”, “K” and “O” Agreements, may  
operate keyboards and other input devices which are part of an “electronic  
newsroom” computer system (e.g. “NewStar”) or similar computer or computer  
system, whether used in conjunction with news or non-news material or  
programs. This operation may include, without limitation, (a) entering material  
into the memory or storage of electronic character generators and/or recalling  
such material to air; and (b) entering instructions into the computer system which  
may control the operation of technical equipment (e.g. for editing, for sequencing  
and/or triggering the playback of carts directly to air, to direct the movement of  
cameras, to operate switchers, etc.); and (c) encoding scripts and other materia!  
for use in “closed captioning”; and (d) entering and electronically transferring  
material to electronic prompting devices for any use including during rehearsal  
and/or broadcast; and (e) loading and unloading disc-packs or any other storage  
medium used in connection with such computer system;  
With respect to the performance of the duties covered by the “F”, “K” and “O”  
Agreements, in addition to employees covered by the “F”, “K” and “0”  
agreements, the following persons may operate such keyboards and other input  
devices for the purposes indicated:  
(a) Persons employed in the News Department at any office of the  
Company primarily to perform managerial and or supervisorial duties,  
in order to edit or rewrite copy or to prepare a script for broadcast. The  
News Director, Assistant News Director, Managing Editor or Executive  
Producer(s) may also write material for broadcast when such writing is  
not a substantial part of, and is incidental to, their overall managerial or  
Supervisory duties or because of time constraints where NABET-CWA-  
represented Newswriters are not readily available in sufficient numbers.  
It is understood that the performance of the work described in  
subparagraph a) above is to supplement the assignment of NABET-  
CWA-represented Newswriters (Newswriter-Producers in San  
Francisco), and no Newswriter {or Newswriter-Producers in San  
Francisco) shall be laid off as a direct result of the Company's use of  
the aforementioned managers to write or edit or rewrite copy under this  
Sideletter,  
269  
Sideletter CX Cont'd  
(b) Persons who, under individual contract with the Company, at any office  
of the Company, wnte and broadcast their own material, in order to  
write, rewrite, edit or otherwise treat or process news material.  
(c) Persons employed to write or otherwise prepare news material, in order  
10 write, rewrite, edit or otherwise treat or process news material  
intended for pnmary use by other than the Owned Station(s) or  
Network facility in San Francisco, Chicago or Los Angeles at which  
such material may also be utilized.  
In addition, persons covered by (a), (b) and (c) above may also remove, distribute  
and othenvise handle any pnnted output produced.  
(3) The computers and computer systems referred to herein are not technical  
equipment under this Agreement. Further, nothing in this provision shall alter or  
affect the rights presently enjoyed by the Company with respect to the operation  
of an “electronic newsroom” computer system or any similar system by persons  
other than NABET-CWaA-represented employees.  
{See Sideletter FE.)  
### CY  
Scheduling  
Notwithstanding the Award of Impartiat Umpire Benjamin Roberts in Case No.  
AN 69-89, which is hereby deemed null and void, and notwithstanding any other  
arbitration awards, grievance settlements, past practices, or provisions of this Agreement  
to the contrary, persons not covered by the Master Agreement may perform any  
scheduling functton in any office or location of the Company.  
Sideletter CZ  
NewsOne  
Notwithstanding the Award of the Impartial Umpire in AWA 86-1 or any other  
arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices, or provisions of the Master  
Agreement to the contrary, any work or functions required to be performed in connection  
with the Company’s television affiliate news cooperative service(s) (presently called  
may be assigned, at the discretion of the Company, either to NABET-C WA-  
represented employees or to persons nol covered by the Master Agreement.  
270  
   
Sideletter CZ Cont'd  
However, in any Company facility in which NABET-CWA-represented engineers  
are otherwise assigned, which facility is located in an office of the Company as defined  
in Section any engineering work for the television affiliate news cooperative to be  
performed in such facility will be assigned te NABET-C WA-represented engineers,  
Sideletter DA  
Host Broadcaster  
When ABC Sports produces Network television coverage of an event originating  
within the Continental United States that is likewise covered by another producer who is  
providing internationa] coverage of the same event, or coverage in a medium other than  
Network television, and is designated or considered the “host” broadcaster of the event,  
the Company may augment its own coverage of the event by accepting a feed{s) of such  
coverage from the “host.”  
Such a feed(s} may be received as an input(s} to the ABC switcher and/or audio  
console, or on video and/or audio tape, whichever may be more practicable under the  
circumstances,  
Sideletter DB  
Program Origination  
As the result of changes made in Sections 7.1 and A2.3 of the Master Agreement  
during the 1989 negotiations, it is understood and agreed that the Company may now  
accept for broadcast live and/or taped outside-produced program matenal, portions of  
programs (i.e., inserts or segments of any Jength) or entire programs, which are neither  
Company television programs as defined in Section 7.1, nor programs produced by the  
Company or programs produced by others for the Company where the Company has the  
basic underlying property rights as defined in Section A2.3.  
For example, in addition to entire outside-produced programs, the Company may  
broadcast within a program produced by the Company outside-produced inserts or  
segments or other outside-produced material, or vice versa.  
271  
Sideletter DC  
semi-annual Mectings  
During the 1989 negotiations, both the Company and the Union expressed  
their desire to improve the communication opportunities between themselves regarding  
important matters of mutual concem and, therefore, to create a non-adversary forum  
which would enable thern to engage in an ongoing dialogue during the period between  
negotiations in order not only to exchange information, but also to identify and discuss  
significant matters,  
To this end, the parties have agreed to meet semi-annually at a mutually-agreed  
location (¢.g., the site of the annual NAB Convention) m order to discuss such items as  
new developments in broadcasting technology and the industry in general, major  
engineering construction or renovation projects to be undertaken by the Company,  
training opportunities for NABET-CWA-represented employees, health and safety issues,  
benefits, competitive developments and any other matters of general interest which the  
Company and the Union desire to place on the agenda. The parties expressly understand  
that, unless otherwise mutually agreed to, specific grievances are not to be the subject of  
these meetings.  
The Company representatives at each such meeting will consist of sentor  
executives from ali interested areas of the Company and senior members of the  
Labor Relations Department. The Union representatives will consist of the Presidents of  
each Local Union or their designees and the Sector President of the Union, and his or  
her designees. Where the President of the Local Union is not an employee of the  
Company, a designee who is an employce will be sent in his or her piace.  
Finally, in order to foster a free and frank exchange of views at these meetings,  
and particularly in view of the fact (hat matters proprietary to the Company may be  
discussed, it is agreed that all discussions held wil] be deemed “off-the-record,” will not  
be cited in any subsequent grievance meeting, arbitration or other legal proceeding, and  
will be kept confidential when appropriate.  
Sideletter DD  
Health and Safety  
During the 1989 negotiations, both the Company and the Union expressed their  
continuing mutual concern over the health and safety of employees covered by the  
Master Agreement. To this end, the parties have agreed that Anicle XX1 of the current  
Agreement will be continued, and thal a NABET-CWA representative will continue to be  
a part of all existing Safety Committees, and will join those Safety Committees formed  
in the future.  
272  
   
Side)etter DD Cont'd  
Moreover, because of the Company’s commitment to issues of health and safety,  
the Company shal! undertake, commencing May 1, 1989, a complete evaluation of its  
internal processes, guidelines and procedures with regard to health and safety, and  
engage whatever internal or external professional assistance it deems necessary in  
pursuit of these objectives. When this evaluation process is complete, the Company will  
meet with Union officials at each location in order to discuss the results. Appropnate  
training of employees in the area of safety at all facilities will, in particular, be reviewed  
as part of this process.  
It is understood and agreed between the parties that the broadcasting industry in  
general and the Company in particular have legal and moral responsibilities for safety of  
all employees which should not be taken lightly. In this regard, the Company agrees that,  
where feasible, any operations manua! developed by the Company for all pieces of  
equipment to which NABET-CWA-represented employees are assigned will, when  
applicable, contain 4 section on matters related to safety. The Company further agrees  
that any such manuals developed will be submitted, upon request, to the Safety  
Committees convened under Article  
The Company further agrees that it will endeavor to schedule, on an annual basis,  
a CPR (or comparable) training course which will be made available free af charge to  
NABET-CWA-represented employees, subject to operational and scheduling  
requirements at each location. Further, should a NABET-C WA-represented employee  
comptete a Red Cross (or other comparable first aid agency) life-sustaining course of  
training off-premises on his or her own time, the Company, upon receipt of proof of  
course completion, will reimburse that employee far the cost of such course, up to a one-  
time maximum of Fifty Dollars ($50.00).  
The Company agrees to provide upon request an anti-glare screen and/or hood,  
and/or a wrist support where appropriate, for any video display terminal (VDT) used by  
any employee covered by this Agreement. In addition, the Company shall endeavor to  
arrange work stations so that each employee using either a VDT or graphics equipment  
incorporating a video display (¢.g., paintbox), is seated no less than three (3) feet away  
from the sides and backs of other such equipment ia use.  
Further, the Company will, upon request, test VDT’s and graphics equipment  
incorporating a Video display, used by employees covered hereunder, for non-ionizing  
radiation. The results of such tests will be made available to NABET-CWA.  
273  
letter D  
Telecommunications  
After extensive discussions during the course of the 1989 negotiations with  
respect to the ordering of transmission facilities for television network news material by  
non-NABET-CWA-represented satellite desk coordinators assigned to the satellite desk  
(hereinafter called the News Traffic Desk), it was determined that it would be in the best  
interests of both the Company and the Union if, in the future, persons assigned to such  
News Traffic Desk were covered by the terms of the Traffic and Communications (“B’’)  
Agreement for the purpose of enabling them to order such transmission facilities.  
Consequently, it was agreed that:  
1.  
As soon as practicable after the effective date of the new Agreement, the position  
of satellite desk coordinator on the News Traffic Desk shall be eliminated and  
shall be replaced by the position Traffic Coordinator covered by the terms of the  
“B” Agreement.  
The Company will consider the application of any Traffic Coordinator with a  
Unit Seniority date of July 20, 1989 or earlier who requests to be assigned to the  
News Traffic Desk, but the decision whether or not to grant such request shall  
rest solely with the Company.  
Traffic Coordinators assigned to the News Traffic Desk shall constitute a separate  
seniority group from Traffic Coordinators assigned to all other traffic operations  
for purposes of layoff, rehiring and other provisions where Unit Seniority is  
applicable.  
However, any Traffic Coordinator with a Unit Seniority date of July 20, 1989 or  
earlier, assigned to the News Traffic Desk or any other traffic operation,  
shall be placed in a Master Traffic Seniority Group, while the News Traffic Desk  
Seniority Group shall consist of regular Traffic Coordinators hired after July 20,  
1989 to work on the news Traffic Desk, and the Network Traffic Seniority Group  
shall consist of regular Traffic Coordinators hired after July 20, 1989 to work in  
ajl other traffic operations. When layoffs of regular Traffic Coordinators in the  
New York office of the Company are to be made, the following shail apply:  
{a) If the number of Coordinators to be laid off from either the News  
Seniority Group or the Network Seniority Group is equal to or less than  
the number of Coordinators in the News or Network Senionty Group,  
whichever is applicable, the Coordinators in such group will be laid off  
in inverse order of seniority.  
274  
Sideletter DE Cont'd  
(b) If the number of Coordinators to be laid off from either Group exceeds  
the number of Coordinators in the News or the Network Seniority  
Group, whichever is applicable, after first laying off all Coordinators in  
the applicable group, the excess shall be laid off in inverse order of  
seniority from the Coordinators in the other group. If after ail  
Coordinators in both the News and the Network Seniority Groups have  
been laid off, the number of Coordinators to be laid off still has not  
been reached, employees in the Master Traffic Seniority Group will  
then be laid off in inverse order of seniority.  
In addition, no Coordinator may be compelled to accept a transfer from one  
separate seniority group to another. In the event a Coordinator, with his or her  
consent, elects to accept a transfer all Unit Semortty accrued prior to the transfer  
shall be retained and his or her Total Company Seniority and Pay Seniority will  
remain unaffected by such transfer. Nothing herein shall prohibit the Company  
from temporarily assigning Coordinators to perform work in a seniority group  
other than the one in which they accrue Unit Seniority.  
With respect to duties previously performed by satellite desk coordinators  
assigned to the News Traffic Desk, which duties are not encompassed by the  
provisions of the “B” Agreement (¢.g., ABSAT satellite access coordination,  
international poot satellite coordination, surveys, etc.), it is specifically  
understood and agreed that any performance of such duties in the future by  
Traffic Coordinators assigned to such Desk shall not, under any circumstances,  
constitute an expansion of existing jurisdiction pursuant to any provision of the  
Master Agreement, nor shall the performance of such assignments by  
Coordinators hereunder entitle any such employees to continue to be given such  
assignments. It is agreed that no claim or dispute involving an assignment made  
pursuant to this Paragraph, or the failure to make such an assignment, shall be  
subject to arbitration.  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, letter agreements, grievance  
settlements or provisions of the Master Agreement or any other agreements  
to the contrary, with respect to television network news coverage of fast-  
breaking news stories, when, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, time  
is of the essence in order to secure the facilities necessary for the origination  
of the story, news managers not covered by this Agreement may institute the  
preliminary steps of the ordering process including commitment to initial  
transmission facilities (but excluding transponders and downlinks, except  
when packaged with uplink services). It is understood that the continuation  
and finalization of this ordering process and the coordination of any such  
transmission facilities, as well as the ordering of additional facilities required  
275  
letter nt  
for coverage of the story, will be performed by Traffic Coordinators in  
accordance with the provisions of the “B” Agreement.  
tett  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter DG  
New York Talent Coordinators - Part-time  
This will serve to confirm our agreement and understanding regarding WABC-  
AM'’s employment of part-time lalent/telephone coordinators for less than eight (8) hours  
per day. It was agreed that neither NABET-CWA nor the Company may cite WABC-  
AM’s employment for such persons for less than eight (8) hours per day in any  
negotiation that does not involve the WABC-AM talent/telephone coordinators. It was  
further also agreed that NABET-CWA would not inaccurately claim in any negotiation  
ihat the Company is not permitted to have any Ee employees  
scheduled to work less than eight (8) hours a day.  
Sideletter DH  
New York Talent Coordinators - Studios  
This letter will serve to confirm our understanding of the term “permanent  
studios” in the collective bargaining agreement between WABC-AM and NABET-CWA  
covering the talent/telephone coordinators employed by that station. In the event that the  
Station’s permanent studios, presently located at 2 Penn Piaza, are not available and the  
station utilizes temporary studios prior to its relocation to its new permanent studios, we  
would treat the talent/telephone coordinator agreement as being applicable to such  
temporary studios.  
This agreement and understanding is limited solely to the aforesaid circumstance  
and cited collective bargaining agreement and shall have no application to any other  
circumstance under this agreement nor shall it have any application to any other  
collective bargaining agreement between us.  
Sideletter DI!  
Sports Production  
In the course of the 1993-97 Master Agreement negotiations there was  
extensive discussion concerning the involvement of ABC production personnel, such  
as Directors, Producers, talent, etc., in the praduction of outside-produced sports  
276  
events that originate at remote locations.  
The programs discussed have not been produced by the Company nor has the  
Company had the underlying property nghts in such programs as the result of the  
participation of the foregoing personnel in the production of such events in the manner  
described.  
Based upon the foregoing and the discussions we have had, the Union will not  
assert during the term of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement that the participation of ABC  
production personnel in outside-produced events in the manner we have discussed  
establishes the Company as the “producer” of such programs.  
Sideletter DJ  
News Producer Assignments  
At the discretion of the Company, in Washington and New York, an employee  
covered by this Agreement may, with his or her consent, be assigned as a producer of news  
material. Such assignment shall be outside the Union's jurisdiction and/or outside the  
jurisdiction of the particular Unit in which they are employed. Any individual assigned to  
produce as set forth above shall be paid a producing fee of no less than Thirty Dollars  
($30.00) a day for each such day of assignment, except that, effective September 27, 2003,  
employees working under the “A” Agreement shall be paid no less than Fifty Dollars  
($50.00) a day for each such day of assignment. The Company and the Union agree that  
any such assignments shall not, under any circumstances, constitute an expansion of  
existing jurisdiction pursuant to any provisions of the Master Agreement, nor shall the  
performance of such assignments by employees hereunder entitle any such employees to  
continue to be given such assignments. Except as provided below, it ts agreed that no  
claim or dispute involving an assignment made pursuant to this provision, or the faiture to  
make such an assignment, shall be subject to arbitration.  
It is further agreed that an employee assigned as a producer pursuant to this  
Sideletter will be held to the same standard of conduct and performance as other  
Company employees employed to perform the same or similar functions, including but  
not limited to those standards applicable to employees covered within the “F","K” and  
“O” units. In the event a NABET-CWA-represented employee assigned to functions  
under this Sideletter exercises due care and sound judgment in order to meet such  
standards, the failure to meet such standards shall not be used for the purpose of  
imposing disciplinary action on such employee.  
However, if such employee is responsible for knowingly violating ethical  
principles, and News Division palicy as conveyed to the employee, the Company  
shall have the right to take all appropriate action, including discipline up to and  
277  
Sideletter DJ Cont'd  
including discharge. Any such disciplinary action imposed upon a NABET-CWA-  
represented employee shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.  
Sideletter DK  
Computer Systems  
I. Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or any  
provisions to the contrary in either the General Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or  
any of the Individual Articles contained in the Master Agreement, persons other  
than NABET-CWA-represented engineering cmployces may operate keyboards and  
other input devices of any kind and any and all equipment which is capable of  
serving as a channel, source or receiver, whether or not such equipment would  
otherwise be considered technica] equipment under the Master Agreement, which  
are part of, attached to, or otherwise utilized by or capable of being utilized by a  
computer system for any purpose, including but not limited to:  
(a)  
(b)  
(¢c)  
(d)  
(e)  
(g)  
to playback or record or to order, sequence, process and/or “edit”  
matenal {whether such material i is in digital or analog form, and  
whether the ordering, sequencing processing and/or editing is linear or  
non-linear);  
to enter and recall alpha-numeric information, such as “lower thirds”,  
supers and graphics in any form and to enter material into and extract  
material from library systems and to modify information contained in  
such systems;  
to direct and/or sequence camera movements;  
to operate switchers, etc,;  
to connect via “network” to other computer systems covered hereunder;  
to connect to and/or utilize digitizing and/or other format conversion  
systems and or equipment; and  
to perform any function or process referenced or described in Sideletter  
CX and not repeated in this Sideletter, whether or not such computer  
system controls the operation of technical equipment, or substitutes  
therefor.  
278  
2.  
51 I td  
Computer systems referred to in this Sideletter DK, shall include, but not be  
limited to the following:  
(a)  
(b)  
any and al] present and future components, parts, sections, information  
sources or channels, processors, receivers, microprocessors, terminals,  
modems, keyboards and other input devices, telephone lines and other  
fiber optic and other related communications and data transmission  
equipment, printers, memory and storage devices and other peripheral  
equipment (including, but rot limited to, audio consoles, monitors,  
microphones, switches, tape machines, CD players and recorders, patch  
cords, etc.) regardless of whether or not any of the above is considered  
to be technical equipment when operated independently of a computer  
system;  
Any device, system or component of such system, or network or  
component of such network {e.g., WAN, LAN, Enterpnse Network,  
etc.) including but not limited to those enumerated in (i) above, or any  
other transmission, switching, routing ot diagnostic equipment used in  
. conjunction with the equipment described in sub-paragraph (1) above,  
regardless of the topology or method of transport (e.g., ISDN, ATM,  
Frame Relay, TI, T3, OC-12, FDDI, SONET, etc.) Computer systems,  
as defined above, shall not be considered technica] equipment under the  
Master Agreement, nor shall they be subject to the provisions of the  
Master Agreement because they are connected to technical equipment,  
or because they are used to collect, input and/or process data which  
controis the operation of technical equipment for the purpose and in the  
manner described above.  
The Company may assign NABET-CWA-represented employees to perform  
duties in connection with computer systems which are not covered by the  
Engineering Agreement. In no event shail the performance of such duties on  
such system(s) confer jurisdiction over any work performed on such  
computer systems.  
It is expressly understood that nothing in this Sideletter shall prejudice the  
rights to apply any of the provisions in Section A2.2(b), A2.2(c),  
A2.2(d) or any other provision of the Master Agreement, including Sideletter CX,  
in any circumstance where such provisions might otherwise be applicable,  
279  
ideletter 1"  
> The parties recognize that computer technology is a rapidly evolving science in  
which new and/or different equipment and technology is added to or substituted  
for equipment now or previously in use. ft is the intent of the parties that the  
definition of computer systems in this Sideletter DK be construed to encompass  
all such future technological developments,  
6. The provisions of this Sideletter and practices which may develop hereunder shall  
have no precedential or prejudicial effect on situations not involving the use of  
such equipment and systems for the purpose described herein.  
(See Sideletters DV, EU and FE.)  
Sideletter DL.  
Teleconferencing  
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Master Agreement, arbitration  
awards, gnevance resolutions or practices to the contrary, equipment of the type  
generally used by businesses and/or consumers when used for teleconferencing which is  
located and operated in facilities of the Company such as conference rooms, offices, or  
similar non-studio areas whether on or off permanent Company premises, shall not be  
subject to Section A2.1 of the Engineering Agreement, nor shall the operation of such  
equipment in such offices, rooms and areas be subject to Section 6.1, provided that such  
material shall not be broadcast.  
Sidsletter DM  
New York “Library” Agreement  
In the New York office of the Company, the Company shall not be required to  
assign employees covered by the Master Agreement to any “library”, other than the  
“main” library located in the basement of 47 West 66th Street. The Company will not  
use the provisions of this Sideletter to ¢liminate the “main” library. To amplify the  
intention expressed in the preceding sentence, the Company will not transfer video tapes  
presently stored in the “main” library to any other storage facility for the purpose of  
eroding the number of regular NABET-CWA-represented employees regularly employed  
in the “main” library,  
At the discretion of the Company, at the New York office of the Company,  
employees covered by the Master Agreement may be assigned to perform library  
functions in any “library” other than the “main” library located in the basement of 47  
West 66th Street which are outside the Union's jurisdiction. The Company and the  
Union agree that any such assignments, shall not, under any circumstances, constitute  
280  
an expansion of existing jurisdiction pursuant to any provisions of the Master  
Agreement, nor shall the performance of such assignments by employees hereunder  
entitle any such employees to continue to be so assigned. It is agreed that no claim or  
dispute involving an assignment made under this Sideletter, or the fatture to make such  
an assignment, shall be subject to arbitration.  
Sideletter DN  
Digital Cameras and Related Equipment  
During the course of the negotiations leading to the 2003 Master Agreement the  
parties discussed technological advances relating to ENG camera equipment. The  
Company recognizes and values the unique contributions made by its NABET-CWA-  
represented ENG crews in the past and is committed to continuing to pse them in the  
future as its primary workforce for such work. However, the parties recognize that due  
to the technological advances, it may be desirable in certain situations for the Company  
to have individuals other than NABET-CWaA-represented employees gather news material  
(including sports news material) on assignments in the field in the following cases.  
Therefore, notwithstanding any other provisions of the Master Agreement,  
arbitration awards, grievance resolutions or practices to the contrary, it is agreed as  
follows:  
Any person(s} described below may operate digital camera equipment (e.g.,  
DVX 1000, Sony PD 150, TRV 1000, miniature, or other camera equipment generally  
marketed as “Consumer” or “Professional Consumer” equipment) and including video  
phones (or similar devices) in the following situations in the field:  
I. As long as camera operation is not such person's overall primary job  
function, such persons (except intemms) may operate such camera  
equipment on assignments when its use is combined (whether or not  
simultaneous) with other work or functions such person(s) normally  
performs (i.e., reporting, producing, newswriting, directing) in relation  
to the particular material, story or program.  
2. Jn addition to the foregoing, any person (except interns) may operate  
such camera equipment on any occasion where one or more of the  
following may be applicable:  
a. the assignment is an “undercover” news assignment or one  
that requires the use of a “hidden” or “discreet” camera;  
281  
   
b. there is limited access to an event;  
c. the person(s) has special access to a location or event due to  
such person’s identity or particular involvement in an event,  
or relationship to a news story or to persons related to such  
story;  
d. the person(s) possess(es) specialized knowledge ofa  
particular subject;  
e. the assignment involves coverage of a sensitive or private  
event;  
f. the assignment essentially of the maintenance of a  
video diary;  
K. the event itself, or the person(s) included in the event,  
requires that secrecy be maintained or sources protected.  
It is understood that operation of the equipment referred to herein  
includes: the operation and attachment of necessary associated  
equipment, such as, bul not Limited to, ipods and microphones, and  
the performance of minor maintenance functions such as, but not  
limited to, changing batteries.  
Material obtained by such person pursuant to this Sideletter may be  
transmitted by such person by any means available to such person in  
the field, utilizing portable transmitting equipment such as, for  
example, a “Swe-Dish”. The foregoing sentence is not intended to  
affect either parties’ rights with respect to traditional microwave or  
satellite equipment installed in an ENG or SNG vehicle.  
The parties recognize that the Company may, at its discretion, also assign  
NABET-C WA-represented engineering exupfoyees to perform some ar all  
of the operation of such camera equipment for programs or productions in  
the circumstances permitted in (1) or {2} above in addition to or in  
conjunction with other persons also operating such camera equipment on  
alt or some of the same assignment or same program.  
NABET-CWA-represented engineers may be assigned to perform news  
production duties pursuant to Sideletter DJ, whether or not in  
combination with their normal work functions.  
282  
DN Cont'd  
7. No ENG news field engineer (i.e., member of one or two person  
camera crew) on regular staff as of May 12, 2003 shall be jaid off  
during the term of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement as a direct result  
of the use of such cameras by other persons in accordance with the  
terms of this Sideletter.  
8. The terms of this Sideletter are without prejudice to the contractual  
positions of the parties regarding the utilization of digital cameras to  
gather material in the field and the application of Sideletters CX and  
DK thereto. The provisions of this Sideletter are applicable only to the  
equipment, personnel and operations described and any assignments  
mvolving the use of such equipment shall not create a precedent or a  
practice. Moreover, the mclusion of any provisions herein shall not be  
construed as implying that it sets forth rights or obligations which  
either party does not otherwise have under the Master Agreement or  
that it limits or restricts such rights.  
Sideletter DO  
Outside Crews and Facilities Rental  
This will confirm our understanding that any Arbitration awards and practices  
that have developed at any office of the Company of assigning persons covered by the  
Engineering Agreement to perform engineering duties on behalf of others who gained  
access to Company studios to record video tape material, for promotional opportunities,  
on behalf of those others, are no longer of any effect and will no longer be a precedent  
that will require any such assignment in the future, In addition, the deletion of Section  
A2,4(b} shall not enable the Company to lease or rent its facilities to others for the  
production of Company-owned programs, or of a program produced in a Company  
studio where the Company, while not owning the basic underlying property rights, is the  
Producer of such program (¢.g,, “Loving”’), without the assignment of NABET-CWA-  
represented personnel pursuant to the terms of the Master Agreement.  
### DP  
“Retrofie’ and “Modular Exchange”  
No arbitration award, grievance resolution, practice or provision of the  
Master Agreement shal] prectude the Company from participating in arrangements  
with manufacturers to refurbish, modify and/or retrofit technical equipment. In  
addition, the Company may “trade in” defective or non-functioning component parts,  
which includes parts the Company determines in its discretion need to be repaired,  
(such as modules, boards, etc.) with manufacturers in exchange.for new or re-  
283  
   
conditioned parts, provided that in all cases, the technical equipment subject to this  
understanding shall be removed and replaced by NABET-CWA-represented employees,  
except as may be provided for in Sideietter Ef.  
The term “manufacturers” shall include, for purposes of this Sideletter, other  
organizations that act on behalf of the manufacturer to fulfill its service requirements.  
The Agreement between the Parties dated December 3, 1958 (video tape  
equipment) is null and void, and any practices that have developed since that date and  
the present time are of no further effect and may not be considered by any arbitrator in  
any case that arises under Section 6.1 of the Master Agreement in which the arbitrator  
may determine what work or functions have been performed inside or outside the  
bargaining unit as heretofore.  
Sideletter DO  
Effects of Arbitration Award or Grievance or Arbitration Settlement  
When an arbitration award or a grievance or arbitration settlement is rendered  
void by subsequent contract language and negates the arbitrator's determination or  
holding or the grievance or arbitration settlement, any practices that have developed in  
connectiun with the above in the intervening period shall be of no further force and  
effect and may not be considered by any arbitrator im any subsequent case for any  
purpose.  
lett  
Poindexter Award  
The parties agree that the Decision and Award of impartial Umpire Wollett in the  
Poindexter case (San Francisco, March 25, 1992) shalt not be precedent and shail not be  
cited by etther the NABET Sector (or any local union) or the Company in any future  
proceeding of any kind.  
Sideletter DS  
Four-Day Workweek  
During the course of the 1993 Negotiations, the parties discussed the  
feasibility of a four (4) day workweek in certain areas of the Company’s operations.  
The parttes recognized, however, that instituting such a program even on a partial  
basis presents serious operating difficulties and constraints and for this reason is not  
possible on a broad basis at this time. While the Company expressed an interest in  
pursuing discussions concerning a four-day workweek, it was agreed that issues  
264  
   
regarding the selection of those employees on such a schedule, and matters relating to  
the actual scheduling of a four or five day workweek required more discussion and  
consideration on an operational level at each location which could potentially utilize  
such a four-day workweek.  
To that end, the parties agreed, notwithstanding the absence of a four-day  
workweek provision in the Master Agreement, that in the event there is mutual interest in  
a four-day workweek in a particular operation of the Company in any location, that the  
parties will meet and attempt to work out the mechanics of such a four-day workweek on  
a local level. It is understood, however, that the decision regarding the institution of a  
four-day workweek for any particular employee or group of employees in any focation or  
operation is a complicated subject requiring modification of a numbet of contractual  
provisions, Therefore discussions conceming the possible implementation of any four-  
day workweek system requires, in addition to local union officials and local operating  
management, the participation of officials of the Union as well as appropriate  
representatives of the Company's Labor Relations Department. Any decision to  
implement such a program following these discussions must be mutually agreed to, and  
any such decision on the part of the Company not to agree will not be subject to the  
grievance and arbitration procedure.  
Sideletter DT  
Daily Hire Benefits  
This will confirm our understanding concerning those Sections of the Master  
Agreement providing for a payment in lieu of benefits for daily hires.  
in the event the Company is required by faw suit, arbitral determination,  
goverment regulation, order, et al., or other compulsory process to make contributions  
on behalf of daily hire employees or to cover such employees in a plan or program for  
medical, pension and/or other benefit coverage, or if the parties agree to such a program  
or contribution for daily hires during the term of this Agreement, the costs to the  
Company of providing such coverage or making such contributions shall, in either case,  
be offset on a dollar-for-dollar basis against the payment in lieu of benefits to the daily  
hires as provided in Contracts “A”, “B”, “F", “K”, “O”, “P” and “R”.  
The amount of the individual offset shall be the same as the cost to the  
Company for providing the additional benefits or making such contribution. In the  
event the amount of the offset is not precisely the amount to be offset to  
provide such coverage shall be determined jointly by the Company’s Vice President,  
Labor Relations and the International: President of the Union, or their designees.’ If  
they should fail to agree, the matter may be submitted to an Impartial Umpire by  
285  
ideletter DT Cont'd  
either party for determination of the appropriate amount to be offset, which is the same  
as the cost to the Company for providing the additional benefits or making the additional  
contributions.  
Sideletter DU  
Stewards/Officers - WABC-TV  
Notwithstanding and in substitution for the provisions of Section 2.2 of the  
Master Agreement, the following shall apply to WABC-TY only:  
Section 2,2  
(a) The Company will not transfer or reassign any Shop Steward  
or any Officer of the Union without prior discussion with the  
Union and without a bona fide reason.  
(b) The Union agrees to furnish a list of all the respective Local  
Stewards and Officers to each office of the Company, and to  
notify the office promptly in writing of any change in the list.  
Sideletter DV  
Implementation of Sideletter DK  
During the negotiations leading to the 1997 and 2003 Master Agreements, the  
parties discussed in detail the technological changes taking place at the Company's  
Network and Station operations, as well as future technological advances, which will  
change the manner and degree to which the Company will continue to employ and utilize  
employees in the Engineering Agreement Unit. Many of such current and future changes  
are represented by the language negotiated by the parties in Sideletter DK.  
The Union has expressed its concern that in light of the anticipated operational]  
changes, NABET-C WA-represented employees covered by the Engineering Agreement  
be given opportunities to continue to participate in Company operations, and the  
Company recognizes the value of providing such_employees these opportunities, To that  
end, the parties have agreed as follows:  
l. Sideletter DK gives the Company full discretion in making assignments to  
non-linear computer editing systems including, but not limited to, AVID,  
ImMIX, Lightworks and Quantel Editbox which, it is agreed, are included  
in the definition of computer systems as set forth in that Sideletter. To  
encourage the Company to assign NABET-CWA-represented engineers to  
286  
   
Sideletter DY Contd  
operate such non-linear computer editing systems, the parties agree that the  
Company wil] provide training in the operation of computer systems covered by  
Sideletter DK to NABET-CWA-represented employees whe are currently  
assigned to perform the work for which such systems will be utilized in order to  
afford them opportunities to participate in these new technologies. Other  
employees who are not currently assigned to perform the work for which such  
systems will be utilized may request the training opportunities described in this  
Paragraph 1. The Company will give good faith consideration to such requests.  
At the Network in the New York office of the Company, persons whose full-time  
exclusive duty is to create sophisticated electronic graphic art utilizing a device  
covered by Sideletter DK will be employed under the Engineering Agreement.  
The Company will not take the position that a particular device is covered by  
Sideletter DK solely because the device incorporates a microprocessor.  
The Company shall not assign pursuant to Sideletter DK persons not covered by  
the Master Agreement to perform any of the following functions heretofore  
performed exclusively by NABET-CWA-represented employees, except that  
nothing in this Sideletter DV shall be construed to amend or limit the Company’s  
rights in Sideletter GD (i.e., New Technology and Consolidation):  
(a) operate Network and Station Master Control and Central Switching in  
Washington;  
(b) operate Network and Station break studios;  
(c) program the Network studio intercom systems;  
(d) edit utilizing non-PC-based linear editing systems (e.g., CMX, ISC,  
HPE, etc.)  
(e) perform Network and Station program production control switching  
except that nothing in this Sideletter DV shall be construed to amend or  
limit the Company's rights in Sideletter FX “Parkervision,” etc.);  
$3) Network and Station camera technical set-up, (excluding shading”  
controls, or other normal operational adjustments);  
287  
Sideletter DY Cont'd  
(g) perform any ABC Television Network or Television Station Master  
Contro] job functions within a ‘hubbing’ or ‘centra) casting” facility for  
the ABC Television Network or a television station covered by the  
Master Agreement, which hubbing or central casting facility is located  
within a seventy-five (75) mile radius of an office of the Company as  
defined in Section 11.6.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sideletters CX or DK, any employee whose overall  
primary job function for the Company is singly or in combination to perform the  
following duties set forth in (h)-(j} below, shall be employed pursuant to the Master  
Agreement!  
{h) TY Station satellite earth station uplink control;  
{i} operate Network and Station ENG transmission facilities;  
(j} program the station studio intercom system.  
as Notwithstanding any obligation to assign a NABET-CWA-represented employee  
pursuant to the Engineering Agreement, if as a result of automation, the functions  
performed by such employee are rendered i.e., the job performed by  
such an employee becomes a function of the equipment and/or no longer requires  
the assignment of such an employee for the task to be accomplished, the  
assignment of such employee will no longer be required.  
6. Persons other than NABET-CWA-represented employees may be assigned to  
operate equipment pursuant to Sideletter DK which may interface with  
equipment utilized in areas to which only NABET-CWA-represented employees  
are assigned to operate technical equipment. Nothing shall require the  
assignment of NABET-CWA-represented employees to operate equipment  
covered by Sideletter DK merely because of an interface between such equipment  
covered by DK and technical equipment in the above-referenced areas, nor shall  
any such interface confer NABET-CWA jurisdiction over any such equipment  
covered by Sideletter DK by virtue of the assignment of NABET-CWA-  
represented employees in those areas.  
t However, nothing herein shall be constrited to timit ihe nghts under Sideletters CX  
or DK, or elsewhere in the Master Agreement, which permit a person to perform any or all of the  
(h)-{j) job functions provided that the performance of such job functions, singly or in combination,  
is not such persan’s overall primary job function. . .?  
288  
   
Sideletter DV  
7. A Special Committee consisting of no more than five (5) representatives of the  
Company and no more than five (5) representatives of NABET-CWA will meet to  
discuss changes in technology covered by Sideletter DK as they may apply to the  
operations of ABC, Enc. covered by the Master Agreement. The Committee will  
meet at regular intervals, but not less than every six (6} months, and will discuss  
technological developments as they are introduced to the industry, as well as their  
application and effect on the bargaining unit’s members. The primary purpose of  
the Committee will be to exchange information and to avoid disputes where it is  
possible to do so. The deliberations will be “off-the-record”, but  
any findings, conclusions and recommendations it may choose to make will be  
recorded and forwarded to the Company's senior management and the Sector  
Office of the Union for their information and consideration.  
8. Any dispute that may arise with respect to the implementation of Sideletter DK  
will be referred to the Special Committee for consideration. If not resolved by the  
Committee, the dispute may be processed under the provisions of Section 20,1 as  
a Nationa) Grievance.  
{See Sideletters FE and GL.)  
Sideletter DW  
Section 14.1  
This wil] confirm our understanding that the Company’s proposals in the 1993  
negotiations to amend Section 14.1, the discussions on those proposals and the  
Company's withdrawal of any such proposals shall not be considered a precedent by  
either party, shal] not be cited by either party in any arbitration or other proceeding that  
may arise hereafter, nor shali any of the foregoing prejudice the position of either party  
in any issue concerning Section 14.1 that may arise in the future.  
{Deleted}  
Sideletter DY  
Painters/Gardeners - Los Angeles  
This will reflect our understanding concerning the Company’s desire to  
subcontract work in the Painter and Gardener classifications, the conditions under which  
such subcontracting may take place and the effect such subcontracting shall have on the  
employees in the unit.  
289  
If fifty percent (50%) of the employees in either the Gardener or Painter  
classifications* elect(s) to resign or retire from the Company or leaves such  
classification voluntanly, or dies, at any time during the term of the 1993 Master  
Agreement, the Company will have the night to subcontract the work in the  
classification(s} in which 50% of the employees so employed have elected to  
resign or retire.  
The Company will pay to any such Painter or Gardener who elects to resign or  
retire a special payment consisting of:  
(a) lwenty-six (26) weeks’ base pay in the case of employees with less than  
five (5) years of Company seniority, or;  
(b) fifty-two (52) weeks’ base pay in the case of employees with five (5) or  
more years of Company seniority. Employees will be required to  
execute a General release in a form acceptable to the Company as a  
condition of obtaining the special payment provided for in this  
paragraph 2,  
If the Company, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth above, subcontracts  
the work in either the Gardener or Painter classification, or both, the Company  
shal] have the right to reassign the remaining employee(s) (if any) to perform  
duties in the Building Maintenance classification at the following rates of pay:  
(a) If the remaining employee(s) is a regular Painter or Gardener, he/she  
will be “red circled” at his/her current rate in the Painter or Gardener  
classification.  
(b) If the remaining employee(s) is an employee temporarily upgraded to  
Painter, he/she shall] be classified at the “3 and over” General  
Maintenance Persons rate.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the special payment provided for in paragraph 2.  
shall be based upon the rate the employee is receiving at the time of resignation  
or retirement.  
* This understanding covers two (2) Gardeners, two (2) “regular” Painters and  
two (2) employees who, as of January 15, 1993, were upgraded to Painter on  
a regular basis.  
250  
letter  
Sideletter DZ  
“Unsuitability” - New York Publicists  
With regard to “R™ Unit employees, the Company shall be permitted, as an  
alternative to the Article XIV provisions, to discharge an employee instead for —  
“unsuitability” to perform publicists’ duties. In the event the Company should determine  
to discharge an employee in the Publicists Unit for “unsuitability”, it shall notify the  
employee and the Local Union in advance of taking any such action, and the Company  
and Local Union shall meet within two business days or at an other mutually agreeable  
time period to discuss the matter. The Company shall notify the Local Union and the  
employee of the grounds for its determination of unsuitability. If no  
resolution shall be reached by the parties regarding such matter, the Company shall be  
required to put the publicist on probation for 90 days, dating from the time the Local  
Union was first notified, in order to determine if the “unsuitability” cannot be remedied.  
In the event the Company shali determine at the end of this 90-day period that such  
“unsuitability” shall not have been corrected, the Company shall be permitted to  
discharge the publicist, provided that the Company in so doing does not act in an  
arbitrary and capricious manner. The Local Union shall have the right to arbitrate  
whether the Company acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner with regard to any  
discharge under this Sidetetter.  
Whenever an employee is discharged pursuant to this “unsuitability” Sideletter,  
he or she shall receive severance pay in an amount double what he or she would have  
received pursuant to Article XV of the Master Agreement in lieu of any other severance  
pay.  
Sideletter DZ-1  
[Deleted]  
Sideletter DZ-2  
Layoffs - New York Publicists  
Article XI shall be applied to employees in the “R” Unit who are hired on or after  
April 1, 1993, except that in the event of a layoff (reduction in force), employees hired  
after April 1, 1993 may be laid off out of inverse seniority order, notwithstanding the  
provisions of Section 11.6 of the Master Agreement. However, no Senior Publicist may  
be laid off prior to a Junior Publicist in accordance with Section R6.1 of the Master  
Agreement. Employees subject to layoff under this provision will retain rehiring nghts  
in accordance with Section 11.7 of the Master Agreement.  
29]  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter EB  
Satellite or Microwave Transmission  
The parties acknowledge that consistent with past practice, NABET-CWA’'s  
Engineering jurisdiction under the Master Agreement does not include the operation of  
equipment used to transmit a signal ftom a pickup which originates outside the  
studios, except when the Company elects to send a Company-owned or  
Company-operated leased satellite or microwave truck(s} to transmit the signal.  
The foregoing is not meant to eliminate the utilization of transmission engineers  
or other NABET-CWA-represented engineers (e.g. ENG) in accordance with past  
practice.  
This sidelctter is agreed to be a full settlement of grievance AH 94-30.)  
Sideletter EC  
Timekeeping Devices  
This will confirm our understanding in the negotiations for the successor to the  
1993-1997 Master Agreement regarding the Company's proposal to add Sideletter (New  
#2] - Timekeeping Devices, The discussions on this proposal and the Company's  
withdrawal of this proposal shall not be considered a precedent by cither party, and shall  
not be cited by either party in any arbitration or other proceeding that may arise  
hereafter, nor shall any of the foregoing prejudice the position of either party as to any  
issue that may arise in the future concerning the installation and use for any business  
purpose of any timekeeping devices.  
Sideletter ED  
Pre-Audition Rooms  
Notwithstanding any urbitratton awards, grievance settlements, practices or any  
provisions to the contrary in either the General Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or any  
of the Individual Articles contained in the Master Agreement, persons not covered by the  
Master Agreement may operate and maintain non-studio non-ENG consumer-type  
cameras and associated equipment {including videotape equipment) to conduct (record  
and/or playback) single-camera talent pre-auditions in nan-studio, non-technical areas.  
292  
   
Sideletter ED Cont'd  
The Company shall maintain and provide the Union with a current list of the  
areas where any such talent pre-auditions are held.  
Sideletter EE  
Aerial or Fixed Remote Cameras  
Notwithstanding any other of the Master Agreement, arbitration  
awards, grievance resolutions, practices or any other agreement to the contrary, at a toca]  
television station(s), the Company may make arrangements with vendor(s) ta supply  
audio and video material obtained through the use of any type of aircraft (including but  
not limited to helicopters, planes and blimps) for broadcast. Persons not covered by the  
Master Agreement may install, remove, operate and maintain al) technical equipment  
which is not owned or leased by the Company and which is located in or affixed to the  
aircraft and used in connection with the transmission of the audio and video material.  
In addition, with respect to cameras mounted on buildings, bridges, tunnels or  
other fixed locations, any person may install, remove, operate and maintain technical  
equipment in connection with the transmission of video and audto from such  
fixed locations. The foregoing shall apply if such camera(s) is not owned nor leased by  
the Company.  
ide  
Company Benefits Plans and Programs  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or any  
provisions to the contrary in either the General Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or any  
of the Individua! Articles contained in the Master Agreement:  
I. Participation for regular full-time employees in-each of the plan(s) that is part of  
the “Signature” Program as of March 31, 2003 (Medical, Dental, Long Term  
Disability Insurance, Employce Life Insurance, Vision, Accidental Death and  
Dismemberment Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance and Health Care and  
Dependent Care Spending Account Plans) and other ptans or programs  
referenced in the Master Agreement (¢.g., Tuition Contribution, SIP and Business  
Travel Accident Insurance) or which as of March 3], 2003, NABET-CWA-  
represented employees have been, or thereafter, aré made eligible to participate  
in, will be subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the  
plans, including without limitations, eligibility requirements, coverages available  
and employee/family costs for participation.  
293  
Sideletier EF Cont'd  
The claim of an employee or of the Union concerning rights under the terms of  
each of the benefit plans({s) and/or program{s} in which NABET-CWA-  
represented employees are eligible to participate may be processed in accordance  
with the grievance procedure in Article XX of the Master Agreement, but shail  
not be subject to arbitration except by mutual agreement of the Company and the  
Union, A grievance can be filed under the Master Agreement only after the  
claims and appeal procedure of the applicable benefit plan(s) and/or program(s)  
has first been followed.  
The parties recognize and agree that the names of some of the plan{s) and/or  
program(s) referenced in the 1993-1997 Master Agreement were changed as the  
result of the overall April 1, 1998 revision of benefits, and are conformed in  
those articles and elsewhere in the successor Master Agreement where cited to  
reflect the correct names of the plan(s) and/or program(s). In all instances where  
a conflict might exist between the substantive provisions of any articles of the  
Master Agreement and the provisions of this Sideletter EF, this Sideletter EF shall  
prevail.  
The parties acknowledge that as in the past, NABET-CWA-represented part time,  
per diem, daily hire and temporary employees (except, and only with respect to  
Signature Medical Plan(s) coverage for temporary employees engaged for fixed  
periods of ninety (90) days or more), are not eligible and cannot participate in  
any of the benefit plan{s} and/or program(s) applicable to NABET-CWA-  
represented regular full time employees.  
(1) The parties agree that any and all changes which may be made in each  
of the Company provided benefit plan(s} and/or program(s) in which as  
of March 31, 2003, NABET-CWA-represented employees are eligible to  
participate, as specifically enumerated in the Master Agreement and  
any sideletters attached thereto, or otherwise as of such date have been,  
or thereafter, are made eligible to participate in, which changes are  
applicable to other employees of the Company eligible to participate in  
such plan(s) and/or program(s), will apply automatically to eligible  
NABET-CWA-represented employees, on the same basis and subject to  
the same terms and conditions as are applicable to other Company  
employees eligible to participate. It is understood by the parties that  
there shal] be no obligation on the part of the Company to bargain with  
the Union over the decision to make, or the effects of such changes.  
294  
(2)  
(3)  
(4}  
Sideletier EF Contd  
By way of illustration, but not limitation, changes in such plan(s)  
and/or program(s) may include: modifications in the terms of the  
plan(s} and/or program(s), including the increasing or the reducing of  
benefit coverage and/or costs for participatton; changes in insurance  
carriers, HMO’s or any service providers; changes in investment  
procedures, investment options or investment managers; changes in  
enrollment forms or procedures or any other administrative matters;  
changes in eligibility requirements; changes in the funding or  
sponsoring arrangements; termination or discontinuance of the plan(s)  
and/or program(s) or a part(s) thereof; substitution or replacement of  
the plan and/or program or merger with another plan and/or program;  
or creation of a new plan(s) or which substitute in whole or  
in part for a previous plan(s) and/or program(s), etc.  
The parties agree that if a new basic and/or optional plan(s) and/or  
program(s) is introduced in the “Signature” Program for eligible  
Company participants, NABET-CWA-represented regular full time  
employees will be allowed to participate in such new basic or optional  
ptan(s) and/or program(s), on the same basis and subject to the same  
terms and conditions as other employees of the Company eligible to  
participate in such plan(s) and/or program(s). Conversely, if a basic or  
optional plan(s) and/or program(s) within the “Signature” Program is  
modified or deleted, such modification or deletion wil] also apply toa  
NABET-CWA-represented employees on the same basis as described m  
the foregoing sentence.  
It is agreed, however, that creation or introduction of a new, separate  
benefit plan and/or program for other employees of the Company,  
which plan or program is not included for participants within the  
“Signature” Program or is not a part, subpart, option or supplement to  
any other existing plan and/or program in which NABEI-CWA-  
represented employees were prior to such date eligible to participate,  
shall not apply to any employees covered by the Master Agreement,  
unless and only to the extent the Company is required by applicable law  
to provide such coverage, or the Company elects in its sole discretion to  
offer such plan and/or program to the Union, subject to alll of the  
foregoing provisions of this Sideletter.  
295  
   
Sideletter EG  
Microphones And Other Audio Devices  
Notwithstanding any provisions of the Master Agreement or any other  
agreements, gnevance settlements, arbitration awards or practices to the contrary, any  
person may attach a microphone(s), IFB(s) or any other audio device(s) of a type  
generally worn on the body or clothing of talent, guests, interviewees and other persons  
who are part of the program involved, as well as turn on or off (utilizing a switch on the  
device}, activate (other than by remote contro]}, adjust and remove such devices.  
Sidelettes EH  
Vendor Employees  
Notwithstanding any provision of the Master Agreement or any other  
agreements, gnevance settlements, arbitration awards or past practice 10 the contrary:  
t. On any remote assignment, not more than a total of four (4) persons (and in the  
event an aiterafl is utilized, up to three (3) additional persons for cach such  
aircraft) employed by a vendor(s) may be assigned by the Company to  
technical and lighting equipment provided 1 the Company by such vendor.  
Further on such remote assignmeni aby persun employed by a vendor may set up,  
knock down, maintain or repair technical and lighting equipment leased from a  
vendor. On news assignments the preceding two sentences shall not be  
applicable 10 the operation of cameras being hand-held or on tripods  
and associated equipment where such cameras are not tied into central  
electronics.  
Major events (including but not to the Super Bowl, award shows,  
political conventions, etc.) are multiple-assignment events which involve  
multiple remote sites at the event, or events which require multiple mobile  
facilities which multiple facilities are used for separate feeds, such as  
international and network feeds, (e-g., World Figure Skating Championships,  
Little League World Series, etc.}, In such instances the Company is limited  
to no more than the number of such persons employed by a vendor computed  
in accordance with the first paragraph of this section |, except that for  
persons employed by a vendor and assigned by the Company to operate  
technical equipment there shall be a maximum of sixteen (16) Such persons  
employcd by a vendor(s), For example, at the Super Bow] there may be  
multiple remote sites such as a pre-game show, the game itself, the post-game  
show, and additional remote location(s} such as an aircraft carrier in the  
San Diego Harbor, all of which will constitute separate remote sites. In this  
296  
   
Sideleticr EH Contd  
example, there may be a total of not more than sixteen (16) such persons  
employed by a vendor(s). The Campany shall have the discretion to allocate the  
persons employed by a vendor to operate equipment leased from a vendor at such  
major events at its sole discretion, provided that the total number of vendor  
employees does not exceed sixteen (16) employees. Such multiple assignment  
event shall be distinguished by listing each assigned crew on a Separate  
manpower spreadsheet and/or by assigning any such crew to a separate mobile  
unit where there is more than one ()) mobile unit on site.  
2. On any non-remote assignment, when the Company rents or leases specialized  
equipment (¢.g., virtual studios, cranes, video walls, turntables, etc.) from a  
vendor, where, as part of the rental or lease, the vendor requires its employces to  
operate, maintain and/or repair the equipment, or where the vendor’s employees  
possess specialized skill or expertise in the operation, maintenance or repair of  
such equipment, not more than a total of four (4) persons by a  
vendor(s) may be assigned by the Company to operate, maintain and/or repair  
such equipment.  
Sideletter El  
Management Engineering Supervisors  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or  
provisions of the Master Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, including but  
not limited to Sideletter DP, management engineering supervisors may operate technical  
equipment for the purposes of testing, and/or diagnostic troubleshooting by such  
supervisors, which may include the removal and/or replacement of modules and/or  
boards by management engincenng supervisors.  
Further, management engineering supervisors may perform transmitter  
maintenance or transmitter site operation functions when such maintenance or operations  
is not a substantial part of, and is incidental to, their overall management duties, or  
because of time constraints when qualified NABET-CWA engineer employees are not  
readily available to perform urgently needed maintenance or on site operations.  
No employee on the Company’s regular maintenance staff at each local television  
operation as of March 31, 2003 shall be laid off from the Company’s employ as a direct  
result of the Company’s of this provision at that particular focal television  
operation.  
297  
Sideletter EJ  
Subcontracted Production  
Should the Company enter into any arrangement with another company or other  
Organization, the parties agree that the term “subcontracts the production of the  
programs to others” as used in Sections 7.1 and A2.3(a)(2) shall not be interpreted to  
include situations tn which the Company does not have the nght to determine which  
organization will provide the technical crew, The Company has no obligation to attempt  
to obtain such right.  
Sideletter EK  
Setup/Knockdown  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices, or  
provisions of the Master Agreement to the contrary, persons other than NABET-CWA-  
represented engineers who are employed by another entity or organization may, at a  
remote location, “set-up” and/or technical equipment utilized in the  
pickup of a Company program and perform any and all technical work involved in the  
“set-up” and “knock-down” of such equipment if such set-up and/or knock-down is  
performed by such other persons in conjunction with, and reasonably contiguous in time  
to, a pickup for such other entity or organization, or such equipment is part of a  
permanent installation at any remote tocation.  
The Award in AN 69-17, et al. is null and void.  
nideletter EL.  
Talent Recording  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Master Agreement, arbitration  
awards, gnevance resolutions or practices to the contrary, persons employed by the  
Company as television announcers, reporters, or performers may operate technical  
equipment in connection with the recording for broadcast and playback for rehearsal  
and/or review of the audio material voiced by them.  
### EM  
Change of Names  
Throughout the Master Agreement, the name “Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.” shall be  
changed to “ABC, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Disney Enterprises, Inc., a wholly  
owned subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company, Inc.”  
298  
   
Sidetetter EM Contd  
The name “National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians” shall  
be changed to “The National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians, the  
Broadcasting and Cable Television Workers Sector of the Communications Workers of  
America, AFL-CIO (NABET-CWA)”.  
Sideletter EN  
KGO-TV and KGO-Radio Conditions  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or any  
provisions to the contrary in either the General Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or any  
of the Individua! Articles contained in the Master Agreement, the following provisions of  
the Master Agreement shall be modified as they apply to employees employed at the  
Company’s owned television and/or radio stations in San Francisco:  
I, In lieu of Section 8.1 of the Master Agreement, the following shali apply:  
Section 8.1 A regular work day is defined as consisting of not  
less than eight (8) hours in any work day, which shall be computed by  
totaling the number of hours between the time an employee reports for  
work and the time of completion of the duties for such work  
day, excluding the meal periods where applicable. A tour of duty  
Starting in any day and continuing into the following day shall be  
considered as one {1) tour of duty and attributed to the first {J st) day.  
In lieu of Section &.4 (Long Tours) of the Master Agreement, the following  
shall apply:  
Section 8.4 (a} If an employee works more than eight (8)  
hours in any single tour, excluding the meal periods, he or she shall be  
paid for all the hours of work in excess of cight (8) at time and one-half  
(1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay. Compensation for this excess time  
shall be in addition to any base pay to which such employee may be  
entitled regardless of the length of the tour in question. For example,  
an employee, who in any regular work week works four (4) nine (9)  
hour tours and one twelve (12) hour tour will be compensated at the  
base pay for such work week plus three (3) hours at one and  
one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s regular rate of pay.  
[Subsection 8,.4(b) remains unchanged.)  
299  
Sideletter EN Cont'd  
il.  
Jil.  
In licu of Section 10.1 of the Master Agreement, the following shall apply:  
Section 10,1 An employee who works at any time berween the  
hours of 12:00 Midnight and 6:00 AM shall be paid a night shift  
differential of fifteen percent (15%) of his or her straight-time rate of  
pay for each such straight-time hour worked, and a differential of  
twenty-two and one-half percent (22-1/2%) of his or her straight-time  
rate of pay for al] overtime worked between such hours.  
(See Statement of Interpretation and Sideletter GT.)  
  
(See Sideletter GT,)  
In lieu of the current Article A-II], substitute the following for NABET-CWA  
represented employees employed at either KGO-TV or KGO-AM.  
Section A}. 1  
I. Effective August 9, 2003, preceding Paragraphs | and 2 of its Sideletter  
EN shall be deleted and replaced with the following:  
Groups for purposes of classification and minimum wage scales for  
regular employees shall be as follows:  
Group 1A - Radio and Television  
Audio Operator 2  
Utility  
Technical Clerk  
Engineers Under Two Years Experience  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
8/9/03- 3/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/6/04 8/5/05 $/4/06 3/31/07  
$1093.00 $1126.00 $1160.00 $1195.00  
{See Sideletter GK Paragraphs 8 and 11.)  
306  
Group 5 - Radio and Television  
Camera Operator  
Audio Operator  
Video Operator  
Editor  
VTR Operator  
ENG/EFP Field Technician/Editor  
ENG/EFP Field Technician  
Media Preparations Operator  
Robotics Operator/Video Shading Engineer  
### LDE  
Specialty Camera Operator  
Radio Engineer (5)  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06 3/31/07  
$1207.00 $1243,00 $1280.50 $1319.00  
(See Sideletter CC)  
Group 7 - Radio and Television  
ENG-EFP Camera Operator/Editor  
Maintenance Engineer  
SNG Operator  
Transmission Engineer  
Technica] Support Supervisor (Radio)  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
9/6/04 8/5/05 S406 =  
$1268.50 $1306.50 $1345.50 $1386.00  
Group 8 - Television Technical Director (8)  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
301  
   
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/6/04 8/4/06 3/31/07  
$1359.00 $1400.00 $1442.06 $1485.50  
No regular employee on the payroll as of May 12, 2003, will be downgraded  
from his or her regular classification as of that date as a direct result of the  
simplification of the job titles contained herein in the negotiations for the  
successor to the 1997-2003 Master Agreement.  
ay The following shall set forth the groups for purposes of classification and  
minimum wage scales for persons engaged on a daily basis:  
Group 1A  
Audio Operator (2}  
Utility  
Technical Clerk  
Engineers Under Two Years Experience  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week}:  
8/9/03- 8/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/6/04 8/5/05 8/4/06 3/31/07  
Four Hour $109.00 $112.50 $116.00 $119.50  
Six Hour 164.00 169.00 174.00 179.00  
Eight Hour 218.50 225.00 232.00 239.00  
Group 5  
Camera Operator  
Audio Operator  
Video Operator  
Editor  
VTR Operator  
ENG/EFP Field Technician/Editor  
ENG/EFP Field Technician  
Media Preparations Operator -  
Robotics Operator  
### LDE  
302  
   
Specialty Carnera Operator  
(See Sideletter CC)  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
$/9/03- 8/7/04-  
8/6/04 8/5/05  
Four Hour $120.40 $124,600  
Six Hour £31.50 187.00  
Fight Hour 241.00 248.00  
Group 7  
8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/4/06 3/31/07  
$127.50 $131.50  
192.50 198.50  
255.50 263.00  
ENG-EFP Camera Operator/Editor  
Maintenance Engineer  
SNG Operator  
Transmission Engineer  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
8/9/03- 8/7/04-  
8/6/05- $/5/06-  
B64 8  S5/05 SOP  
Four Hour $126.50 $130.50  
Six Hour 190,50 196.00  
Eight Hour 253.50 261.00  
Group & - Technical Director (8)  
$134.50 $138.50  
202.00 208.00  
269.00 277.00  
Minimum Wage Scale (Per Week):  
$/9/03- 8/7 /04-  
8/6/04  
Four Hour $136.00 $140.00  
Six Hour 204.00 210.00  
Eight Hour 272.00 280.00  
303  
8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/4/06 S{3L/07  
$144.00 $148.50  
216.50 223.00  
288.50 297.00  
Sideleter EN Cont'd  
Vv. In lieu of the current Section A9.1, the following shall apply:  
Section A9.1 It is the intention of the Company to continue the  
practice of granting a reasonable rest period during television program  
rehearsals or a reasonable relief period for each job function during an  
extended television broadcast, such as a football game, whenever  
possible to do so. Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grevance  
settlements, practices or provisions of the Master Agreement to the  
contrary, nothing shall require the scheduling of, or the payment for,  
the failure to give any breaks of a fixed duration or frequency.  
(See Sideletter EN-1.)  
Sideletier EN-}  
San Francisco Conditions  
In clarification of the Company’s Sideletter EN dated December |}, 1998, the  
parties agree as follows:  
Section [V.2 permits the hiring on or after February 26, 1999, of daily hire  
employees at the Technician “A” or Technician “R” rates, notwithstanding that the same  
daily hire employees may have previously worked for the Company on one or more  
occasions prior to February 26, 1999, at the rates provided for in A3.1. Section 11.5 of  
the Master Agreement shall apply for purposes of determining the appropriate step on  
the pay escalator for the Technician “A” or Technician “B” categories for such  
employees.  
Section FV.2(a) Technician “A” shall include all positions to which the employees  
in job categories enumerated in this section could be upgraded pursuant to any provision  
in the Master Agreement (e.z., Technician “A” shall include employees working as a  
Group 7 supervisor pursuant to Sideletter AB).  
The 9% differential for any Technical Directors hired on or after February 26,  
1999, shal] be a minimum, The foregoing paragraphs of this Sideletier shall be deleted  
effective August 8, 2003.  
The provisions of Sideletter EN supersede any contrary arbitration awards,  
grievance settlements, practices or conflicting provision(s) anywhere in the Master  
Agreement with respect io employees engaged by the radio and television stations in San  
Francisco. '  
304  
   
Sideletter EO  
Outside Post-Production - Los Angeles  
This will confirm that in the Los Angeles office the Company may utilize  
“outside” post-production facility{s) when it does not have immediately available either  
the equipment, or, in the Company's sole judgment, engincer(s} with the requisite skilf  
and ability to perform the work required by the Under such circurnstances,  
the Company will not be obligated to assign engineers to such faciltty for any period of  
such utilization.  
The resolution of grievance AH 82-94 dated April 23, 1983, regarding outside  
editing is nul! and void.  
Sideletter EP  
Non-Covered Businesses ,  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or  
provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, persons other than NABET-CWa-  
represented employees may operate equipment, regardless where located, including, but  
not limited to, equipment otherwise covered by the provisions of Section A2.1, for any  
purpose which is not within the scope of the exclusive jurisdiction granted in Sections  
7.1 and A2.3.  
It is understood and agreed that included among the operations and entities  
excluded from NABET-CWAS exclusive work jurisdiction are {i} any direct broadcast  
satellite operation or business;(ii) any Videotext or similar operation or business; (iii) any  
form of cable or other non-over-the-air operation or business, including but not limited  
to operations similar to CNBC, Cablevision and regional cable news operations; (iv) any  
subscription or home video business or operation; (v) any computer-based consumer  
products, operations or businesses, including, but not limited to, CD-ROM, on-line  
services and the Internet; (vi) products made for initial release on videodisc,  
videocassette or any successor distnbution system to either; or (vii) any technology,  
operation or business which does not utilize an over-the-air free television delivery  
system covered under the Preamble to the Agreement.  
Sideletter EQ  
Promo Review  
Notwithstanding any provision of the Master Agreement or any other  
Agreements, grievance settlements, arbitration awards or practices to the contrary,  
nothing herein shall prevent any person not covered by the Master Agreement from  
305  
operating any equipment used lo send and/or receive promotional or related program  
material (including credits) for the purpose of review by Company executives.  
Sideletter ER  
Brittain/Hering Award  
The parties agree that the Decision and Award of the impartial Umpire in the  
Brittain/Hering case (AS 95-18 and AS 95-19, February 29, 1996) shall not be  
precedential and that both the award and the practices referred to in the Award and  
relied on by the Arbitrator or Union shall not be cited by the NABET-CWA Sector for anv  
facal union) or the Company in any future proceeding of any kind.  
Sideletter ES  
KABC-TV - New Facility  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or any  
provisions to the contrary in erther the General Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or the  
“P" Apreement, KABC-TY shall be free to assign any person to perform the duties set  
forth in the “P” Agreement at any new location and at the existing or any future  
transmitter site including, but not limited to, subcontracting any or all of these duties.  
No regular employee employed in the “P” unit as of March 31, 2003 shall be  
laid off as a direct result of the Company’s right to assign any person to perform any  
duties, including the subcontracting of such duties, set forth in the “P” Agreement at any  
existing or transmitter site for KABC-TV.  
Sideletter ET  
Training  
The Company recognizes the value of a well-trained work force. The  
technologies utilized in the Company’s operations are undergoing vast change. These  
changes will, in many cases, require employees to improve and upgrade their skills. The  
Company and NABET-CWA encourage employees under the Engineering to  
improve their skills and knowledge by applying their initiative and using all available  
training resources as described in this Sideletter.  
306  
bideletter ET Contd  
(a) The Company will provide those employees who wish to improve their  
skills and abilities on their own time with the opportunity to use its  
equipment and facilities consistent with operational considerations.  
The Company will also give consideration to releasing such employees  
for training during their working time, provided that operational  
requirements permit such release. Any release for training during  
working time shal] be in the Company’s sole discretion.  
(b) NABET-CWA-represented Engineering employees assigned to train two  
(2) or more other NABET-CWA-represented employees will be paid at  
the Group 7 rate for each tour so assigned by the Company. Any other  
NABET-CWA-represented employee assigned to train another NABET-  
CWA-represented employee wilt be paid at his or her normal rate of  
pay for each tour so assigned by the Company. It is expressly  
understood, however, that the Company’s assignment of a NABET-  
CWA-represented employee to train other NABET-CWA-tepresented  
employees shali not provide the Union with the basis for any claim that  
it has established or acquired any jurisdiction by virtue of any NABET-  
CWA-represented employee being assigned to perform or performing  
any training duties.  
During the term of the 2003-2007 Agreement, the Company will continue to  
operate the New York BO&E Learning Center and will establish additional  
training facilities and opportunities in the other offices of the Company, as  
defined in Section 11.4, modeled on the BO&E Learning Center. The objectives  
of such training facilities will be to have current employees covered under the  
“A” “FE” “K” and “O” Agreements better understand the technological  
changes expected to be phased into Company operations covered by the Master  
Agreement, including specifically, the changeover from analog to digital  
technologies.  
(a) Engineering employees whose prior job function (i.¢,, editing) has been  
combined into the duties of newswriters wil] be offered the opportunity  
to tearn basic newswriting functions,  
(b) Employees covered under the “F”, “K” and “O” Agreements whose  
prior job functions have been combined with editing functions will be  
offered the opportunity to learn basic editing functions.  
If an employee is interested in participating in a training program, he or she may  
contact his or her immediate supervisor and request the opportunity to  
307  
Sidgletter FT Contd  
participate in such program. If there are openings in the program, the Company  
will make an effort to grant the employee’s request to participate, subject to the  
provisions of Paragraph |.  
a The support of training shall not constitute any commitment to upgrade or  
transfer any employee, or to give any employee rights to employment  
opportunities greater than those expressly set forth in any provision of the Master  
Agreement,  
Sideletter EU  
Non-Represented AVID Editors  
Persons employed by the Company who are assigned to operate such non-  
linear computer editing systems solely to “edit” material covered by the Master  
Agreement, but who at no time are responsible for the editorial content of the material  
which they are “editing” (hereinafter “editorial responsibility"), shall be covered by the  
Engineering Agreement. It is understood that dubbing (including digitizing, copying,  
cloning and transfers}, screening and/or other non-editing functions are not covered by  
the above, but nothing herein precludes NABET-CWA-represented engineers from being  
assigned such functions or given some editorial responsibility.  
Editorial responsibility is the duty to make a decision(s) and/or a judgment(s)  
{which decision(s) and/or judgment(s} may include elements of an artistic or creative  
nature) with respect to the content of material during the process of assembling or  
producing a program, or any segment thereof, or other material covered by the Master  
Agreement. The failure to perform, or to properly perform, such duty may result in  
discipline. The designation of editorial responsibility shall be conclusive for  
the purpose of determining coverage by the Engineering Agreement. It is agreed that  
any assignment of NABET-CWA-represented employees to such non-linear editing  
systems shall not create a precedent or a practice. In addition, any such assignment of  
NABET-C WA-represented engineers shall not, in and of itsetf, make the area in which  
such assignment is performed a technical area, or an area in which NABET-CWA-  
represented engineers are deemed to be regularly or normally assigned.  
The Company agrees that those non-NABET-C WA-represented employees  
employed by the Company in Los Angeles as of the effective date of the 1997 Master  
Agreement solely to edit as sei forth in the first sentence of the first paragraph in this  
Sideletter EU will, following ratification of the 1997 Master Agreement, be covered  
under the Master Agreement. The Union agrees that, in Los Angeles, it will waive  
any initiation fees which may otherwise be assessed in order for these individuals to  
join the Union,  
308  
   
Sideletter EV  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter EW  
New York Technical Director Upgrades  
Consistent with the practices at offices of the Company other than the TV  
Network at the New York office and the Grievance Resolution in AN-O1-25, nothing  
shall restrict the Company's ability to upgrade an engineer to technical director on a  
daily basis in the New York office of the Company at the TV Network.  
Sideletter EX  
Retiree Medical Benefits  
In the 1989 negotiations for a new Master Agreement, the parties recognized that  
because of the rapidly escalating costs of retiree medical coverage, contractual changes  
needed to be made reflecting the changes that the Company had made generally in  
retiree medical coverage for all of its employees. The parties agreed at that time that  
NABET-CW4A-represented employees would thereafter receive retiree medical benefits  
on the same basis as the non-represented employees of the Company and that only those  
employees who met the eligibility requirements then applicable to non-represented  
employees would thereafter be eligible to participate. Section 22.4 thereupon became  
part of the Master Agreement.  
During negotiations for the 1997-2003 NABET-CWA-ABC Master Agreement, as  
well as the renegotiation of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement, the parties apain  
discussed the subject of retiree medical coverage. As a result of those discussions the  
parties are in agreement that Section 22.4 of the 1993-1997 Master Agreement shall be  
continued.  
l. Certain NABET-CWA-represented cmplayees employed by the Company as of  
March 31, 1989, who had reached age 55 and attained at least ten (10) years of  
service by such date, shall continue to be eligible to receive, upon retirement,  
medical coverage under the terms of the “ABC Comprehensive Medical Expense  
Plan” in effect on March 31, 1989, (with Medicare offset). The Company agrees  
that such coverage for these employees shall continue to apply during the term of  
the 2003-2007 Master Agreement, notwithstanding any provision or Sideletter to  
the contrary in the Master Agreement or in any existing, new or madified  
Company plan, program or policy, except changes required by law,  
309  
Sideletter EX Cont'd  
2. Certain other NABET-CWA-represented employees employed by the Company as  
of March 31, 1989, who had reached age 45 or whose age and service equaled at  
least 55 by such date, and retire at age 55 or older under the retirement plan  
applicable to NABET-CWA-represented employees shall continue to be eligible  
to receive medical coverage under an arrangement different from the one  
described in paragraph | above. The terms of the retiree medical coverage  
applicable to this group of employees will continue to be the same as that  
provided for the non-represented employees of the Company who are eligible to  
participate.  
The Company agrees to continue retiree medical coverage for this specific group  
of NABET-CWA-represented employees who achieved age 45, or whose age and  
service equaled at least 55 as of March 31, 1989, during the term of the 2003-  
2007 Master Agreement, notwithstanding any provision or Sideletter to the  
contrary in the Master Agreement, or in any existing, new or modified Company  
plan, program or policy.  
It is understood, however, that the Company may, in its sole discretion, without  
any obligation to bargain with NABET-C WA, continue to make whatever  
modifications it deems necessary in the retiree medical coverage provided for in  
this Paragraph 2. Such possible modifications may include, but not be limited to,  
deductibles, co-payments and benefits coverage, but may nui include any  
modifying of the age or service requirements or any termination of  
retiree medical coverage itself, except as required by law. Any modifications  
made for NABET-CWA-represented individuals in this retiree medica) coverage  
can only be made on the same basis as for the non-represented individuals  
eligible for such coverage.  
2, Except for the two groups of NABET-CWA-represented employees referred to in  
paragraphs | and 2 above who are eligible for this coverage, all other NABET-  
CWA-represented employees shal) contimue to be ineligible for any form of  
Company provided medical coverage upon retirement from the Company.  
Sideletter KY  
(Deleted. ]  
310  
Sideletter EZ  
Voluntary Separation Program  
Within ninety (90) days of the effective date of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement  
applicable ta the “A” and “B” Units, the Company will offer the following Voluntary  
Separation Program to staff NABET-CWA-represented TV network engineers in New  
York, Washington, DC and Los Angeles, engineers of KABC-TV, KGO-TV, WLS-TV  
and WABC-TY and traffic coordinators in New York.  
Separation Formula  
(i) Employees with at least six (6) months, but less than four  
(4) years of Total Company will receive eight (8) weeks’  
base pay.  
(it) Employees with four (4) but less than ten (10) years of Total  
Company Seniority will receive eight (8) weeks’ base pay,  
plus one week of base pay for each completed year of Total  
Company Seniority. - -  
ne (iil) ‘ Employees with ten (10) or more years of Total Company  
Seniority will receive twenty (20) weeks’ base pay, plus one  
week of base pay for each completed year of Total Company  
Senionity.  
L. Acceptance into the Program - The Company reserves the sole nghi to  
determine the number and select from among the applicants those  
employees who will be accepted into this Program based upon its  
evaluation of its own operational needs.  
2. - Agreement and General Release - Employees accepted into the  
Program will be required to sign an Agreement and General Release  
prepared by and satisfactory to the Company.  
Employees accepted into this Voluntary Separation Program shall] be  
permitted during the term of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement to apply  
for future employment opportunities at the Company in either Daily  
Hire or Vacation Relief positions.  
311  
4. The Program as set forth herein will be offered during the three (3)  
month period subsequent to ratification in each affected bargaining unit  
as provided in the Ratification Protocol dated August 7, 2003.  
Thereafter, the Company and Union retain the right to negotiate any  
subsequent or other Separation Program in accordance with  
the terms of Section 11.10 of the Master Agreement.  
Sideletter FA  
Interpretation of Section 3.6(c)  
The parties agree that the Decision and Award of Arbitrator Arnold Zack (New  
York, August 26, 1998) is hereby deemed nuff and vaid and shail nat be cited by either  
the NABET-CWA Sector of the Union (or any local Union) or the Company in any  
further proceeding of any kind. Consistent with prior practice the parties agree that in  
the event of any schedule change covered by Section 8.6(c), the first eight (8) scheduled  
hours of work shall be compensated at straight time which shall not be increased as a  
result of Section 3.6(c).  
ideletter FB  
Daily Hire Defined Contribution Pian  
Effective September 27, 2003, the Company will pay on behalf of each daily hire  
employee employed under the “A”, “B”, “F”, “K’, °O”, “P”, or “R” Agreements who has  
worked more than twenty (20) days in a calendar year, four percent (4%) of the  
time hours worked in that same calendar year, to the Communication  
Workers of America Savings and Retirement Trust (“SRT”) provided that all the  
following requirements are met by the SRT: (1) SRT is qualified under applicable  
Interna] Revenue Code provisions, (2) SRT complies with all other applicable provisions  
of law, (3) SRT is self-supporting a3 to any administrative or other costs, and (4) SRT  
permits all contributions to be fully tax deductible to the Company. The contributions  
will be payable by separate check to SRT by February 15 of the next succeeding calendar  
year provided all of the above conditions are satisfied.  
For any bargaining unit that ranfies the Master Agreement by September 26,  
2003, in accordance with the Ratification Protocol dated August 7, 2003, the new twenty  
(20) day threshold shall be applicable for days worked in calendar year 2003 as the basis  
for the Company contributions in 2004.  
312  
Sideletter FC  
Sideletier FC  
News Assignment Managers  
During the negotiations for a successor to the 1993-1997 Master Agreement the  
parties discussed the functions of the Assignment Manager(s) in Chicago, Los Angeles  
and San Francisco. The parties agreed that the Company could continue, as it has in the  
past, having Assignment Manager(s) perform any desk functions in each office (e.g.,  
dispatching and talking to crews). It ts acknowledged that proposals made by the  
Company concerning Assignment Managers affecting the “F”, “K” and “O” Units during  
these negotiations were withdrawn by the Company based upon the understanding set  
forth in this Sideletter.  
Sideletter FD  
Flex Plan/401{k) Plan  
The Company agrees to make contributions on behalf of daily hire employees to  
the Entertainment Industry Fiex Plan for medical and other benefits, and/or to the CWA  
401(k) Plan (on the condition that both Plans are and remain “Qualified Plans” as  
defined by the Internal Revenue Code or other applicable laws, mules and regulations).  
Such contributions will be deducted from each individual “daily hire” or “per diem”  
payment tn lieu of benefits as is provided for in the “A”, “B”, “F’, “K”, “O”,  
“P” and “R” contracts, or in the case of employees covered by the “T” Agreement as  
provided for in Sideletter FD-1.  
Sideletter FD-1  
Flex Plan/40? (k} Plan  
During the negotiations for the 2003-2007 Master Agreement, as specified in  
modified Articles Al4.2 (e), B3.4 (a}, F3.11 (a), K3.14 (a), 03.14 (a), P3.3 (a), and R2.2  
(a), the parties agreed that the Company will pay daily hire emptoyees a Fifty-five Dollar  
($55.00) a day, (Sixty Dollars (£60.00) a day effective the first day of the payroll period  
following June 1, 2006) payment in lieu of benefits. Pursuant to Sideletter FD, the  
parties also agreed that the Company would make deductions for contributions to the  
Entertainment Industry Flex Plan (“Flex Plan’’} and the Communications Workers of  
America Savings and Retirement Trust (“SRT”). The parties further agreed that the  
payment in lieu of benefits was intended to pay or defray the cost of benefits of the type  
provided under the above-referenced plans.  
313  
Sideletter FD-1 Cont'd  
Pursuant to Sideletter FD, the parties have met and have agreed that with respect  
to the above-referenced Units, the first Ten Dollars ($10.00) a day of the above-  
Teferenced payment in lieu of benefits shall be allocated as a mandatory contribution to  
the Flex Plan and paid directly to the Flex Plan by the Company on behalf of each daily  
hire employee entitled to such payment. The mandatory contribution referenced in the  
preceding sentence shall increase to Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) a day effective the first day  
of the payroll period following June |, 2006. The rernaining Forty-five Dollars ($45.00)  
shall be paid by the Company to daily hires directly as the payment in lieu of benefits.  
The parties understand and contemplate that daily hire employees may elect, through  
payroll deduction, to have further monies (including amounts in excess of the payment in  
lieu of benefits) allocated and paid by the Company on their behalf to the Flex Plan,  
and/or the SRT, subject to any limits set forth in the terms of the Plans and/or any  
applicable laws, rules or regulations.  
In lieu of the preceding paragraph, in the case of daily employees covered by the  
“T” apreement, the Company shall make a Teh Dollar ($10.00) a day contribution on  
behalf of such employees directly to the Flex Pian, which contribution shall not reduce  
the wages paid to such daily employees. In addition, daily employees covered by the “T”  
agreement are eligible to contribute additional monies, through voluntary payroll  
deduction, to the Plans set forth above, subject to any limits set forth in the terms of the  
Plans and/or any appticabic laws, rules or regulations.  
[Grievance AH 01-039 regarding “T' Unit compensation is withdrawn with prejudice  
and the Union agrees not to refile the  
Sideletter FE  
Interpretation of Sideletters CX, DK, DV  
Nothing in the Master Agreement, nor any practice, shall require the assignment  
or reassignment of employees covered by the Master Agreement to operate equipment  
covered by Sideletters CX or DK, notwithstanding that at other or prior times the same  
employees have been or will be employed to operate technical equipment, or CX or DK  
equipment, while working as NABET-CWA-represented employees covered by the  
Master Agreement.  
Sideletter FF  
Personal Services Agreements  
+ ~  
The Union agrees that the terms of each individual Agreement in the Master  
Agreement are minimums. The Company and the Union further agree that nothing  
314  
contained therein shall prevent an employee from negotiating a personal services  
agreement directly with the Company without Union involvement, which personal  
services agreement shal] contain better terms than the minimums provided in the Master  
Agreement.  
The Company shall notify the Local Union, in writing, of any personal services  
agreements entered into with any NABET-CWaA-represented employee. Any individual  
personal services agreements entered into will be made available to the Local Union by  
the Company for inspection, and a copy will be made available to the Local Union upon  
request. The loca] Union will restrict persons who will have access to these agreements  
to a “need ta know” basis and will keep the identity of the individual and overscale  
amount confidential, Prior to the inspection by the Union or the release to the Union of  
any personal services agreement covered hereunder, the parties will sign a  
confidentiality agreement to this effect.  
Sideletter FG  
News Producers - San Francisco  
4 <  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices, or  
provisions to the contrary in the General Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or the “F”  
Agreement, including, without limitation, F].1, F2.1 or F3.8, persons employed as  
producers not covered by the Master Agreement who produce news programs may  
perform any and/or all of the duties of NABET-CWA-represented Newswriters-  
Producers in conjunction with the programs, program elements, segments, inserts, stories  
of pieces of news programs which they produce, or for special news programming. The  
foregoing shall apply to not more than three (3) specialty and/or segment producers (but  
not more than three (3) people in total) in any combination thereof. With respect to  
repularly scheduled Monday through Friday news programs on KGO-TY, the provisions  
of the first sentence of this Sideletter shall not apply to more than one {1) producer per  
program, except that program producers may perform all duties of NABET-CWA-  
represented Newswriters with respect to programs produced by others, which programs  
are in a single calendar day in an adjacent news block to the particular program produced  
by another Program Producer, (e.g., the 11:00 PM Program Producer could write for the  
6:00 PM news or the 5:00 PM Program Producer could write for the 6:00 PM news but  
the 11:00 PM Program Producer could not write for the 3:00 AM news on the following  
calendar day, nor could the 5:00 AM Program Producer write for the 11:00 PM news on  
the previous calendar day), when: (i) in the Company's sole judgment it is necessary to  
do so; and (ii) the writing of the program producer does not substitute for the hiring or  
scheduling of a NABET-CWA-represented newswriter. On weekend pragrams on  
KGO-TV {weekends shal! be Friday and Saturday or Saturday and Sunday) producers  
not covered by the Master Agreement may only perform the duties of NABET-CWA  
315  
Sideletier FG Cont)  
-Tepresented Newswrilers-Producers as set forth above to cover the absence of a NABET-  
CWA-represented Newswriter-Producer or in a news emergency or coverage.  
Sideletter FH  
[Deleted.}  
sideletter FI  
Desk Assistant Duties - Los Angeles  
Notwithstanding any provision of the Master Agreement or any other agreements,  
grievance settlements, arbitration awards or past practice to the contrary, with respect to  
KABC-TY, any person may perform any Desk Assistant duties.  
Sideletter FJ  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletter FIK  
[Deleted.]  
Sideleter FL.  
[No Provision. ]  
Sideletier FM  
Local On-Camera Appearance Rates  
The rates for on-camera appearances in local television programs as set forth in  
Section 24.3 are as follows:  
Program Length Chicago Los Angeles San Francisco  
Less Than 30 min 58.00 47.50 55.00  
31 to 60 min 74,00 62.00 76.50  
61 to 90 min 90.00 76.50 99.00  
91 to 120 min 106.00 91.00 121.00  
316  
Program Length New York  
Less Than 15 min 42.00  
16 to 45 min 77.00  
46 to 60 min 87.00  
6] to 90 min 99.00  
91 to [20 min 138.00  
The Company agrees to notify NABET of any increases in the foregoing rates.  
Sideletter FN  
[Deleted.]  
Sideletier FO  
Legal Effects  
To the extent permitted by federal, state and/or local laws or orders, the  
parties hereby expressly waive wage, hour and other labor Jaws or orders, such as but  
not limited to the California state law requiring one day's rest in seven days.  
Moreover, and in any event, any premiums, penalties or other payments required by  
the terms of the Master Agreement are intended to be in Jieu of, rather than in addition  
to, any premiums, penalties or other payments required pursuant to federal state and/or  
local labor laws or orders.  
Sideletter FP  
SNG Assignment - Scheduling Meals  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or  
provisions to the contrary elsewhere in the Master Agreement, employees who are  
assigned to operate satellite trucks in connection with television news pickups shall be  
considered employees assigned to “ENG” for purposes of determining scheduling and  
meal requirements under the Master Agreement.  
317  
Sideletier FO  
Regis Promo Settlement  
The parties agree that the Agreement between NABET-CWA Local 16 and the  
Company dated September 27, 1989 (Regis and Kathie Lee promo setilement) and all  
practices that may have arisen out of that Agreement shall be null and void and of no  
further force and effect,  
ide  
Microwave Receive Site Maintenance  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or any  
provision to the contrary in the Master Agreement, any person may perform maintenance  
work at ENG receive sites and maintenance of related equipment (e.g., receive dish,  
controller, microwave receiver and transmitters, switchers to route video between receive  
sites, etc.) previously performed by employees covered by the Master Agreement.  
No employee on the Company's regular maintenance staff at each local or  
Network operation as of March 31, 2003 shall be iaid off from the Company’s employ as  
a direct result of the Company's utilization of this provision at that particular network or  
local television operation.  
Sideletter FS  
Sale, Merger or Consolidation  
In the event of a sale, merger or consolidation of aJl or a part of an entity or  
operation covered under the Preamble of the successor to the 1997-2003 Master  
Agreement, the Company will give the Union written notice thereof as soon as  
practicable. Upon request of the Union, the parties wil] meet as soon a3 practicable  
thereafter to discuss and bargain over the effect on the bargaining unit(s) impacted by  
such sale, merger or consolidation.  
idgletter FT  
Work Week Change  
In the event the Company decides to change the regular work week from that set  
forth in Article 8.2, including 12:01 a.m. Sunday to midnight the following Saturday, the  
Company may do so on three weeks notice to the Local Union(s} involved, and the  
Company’s posting and scheduling requirements set forth in Article A8.2, as well as any  
other affected contract provisions, shall be changed accordingly.  
318  
Sideletter FU  
DK or CX Equipment  
The parties agree to a clarification that no provision of the Master Agreement,  
any Stipulation or Sideletter (e.g., AB, AB-1, AY) thereto, or any of the separate Unit  
contracts, imposes any staffing or upgrade requirements in connection with the operation  
of equipment coveted by Sideletters DK or CX.  
Sideletter FV  
Sick and Disability Leave  
1. Evidence of Disability or IlIness  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Master Agreement, practices,  
arbitration awards or grievance settlements, the Company shall have the sole discretion  
to require an employce to provide any “evidence of disability” as referred to in Section  
26.1{a) for any period of illness or disability. For example, the Company may require  
physician's notes, physicals by Company designated doctors, etc. Should the Union  
claim in a particular instance that the Company's requirement(s)} of “evidence of  
disability” violates the Master Agreement, the Impartial Umpire shall sustain the  
actions unless it is shown that the requirement(s) was arbitrary or  
capricious.  
2. Sick or Disability Leave and Oiher Laws  
4  
Any paid leave, whether sick leave or short term disability leave, taken under the  
Master Agreement shall also run concurrently with any other leave to which the  
employee may be entitled, including a leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act, or  
other state or local laws that might entitle an employee to leave for any illness, child or  
family care, pregnancy, etc. issues.  
3. Use of Sick Leave for Medical or Dental Care  
During the negotiations for the successor to the 1997-2003 Master Agreement,  
the parties discussed the use of sick leave by employees for medical or dental care. The  
parties agreed that sick leave may not be used for routine medical, dental care or other  
non-urgent health care matters, An employee shall make a good faith effort to notify his  
or her management supervisor of routine doctor, dentist, etc. visits promptly after they  
are scheduled so that the Company may make reasonable scheduling adjustments, if it so  
desires, to minimize the operational impact that might be related to the  
absence for such visits.  
319  
In determining whether an employee has been “actively at work” for purposes of  
Section 26.1 (Ff), the Company will consider an employee who is on approved leave of  
absence unrelated to any illness or disability to be “actively at work.” Further, in the Los  
Angeles and San Francisco offices of the Company, an employee who is on “unpaid”  
sick leave for up to three (3) days in December, because he or she has exhausted paid  
sick leave under Section 26.1 (c)(1), will be deemed to be “actively at work” for  
purposes of Section 26.1 (1),  
{The grievance setilement in AH 93-33 and AH 93-34 is null and void, shall be  
of no further precedential effect and may not be cited or accepted into  
evidence in any subsequent grievance or arbitration proceeding],  
Sideletter FW  
Transmitters  
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the Master Agreement or any  
practices, grievance settlements, or arbitration awards, in cases where the Station's  
transmitter feeds into a common antenna complex with other television or radio stations,  
and the primary antenna is off-line (e.g., for maintenance, inspection, or diagnostics), the  
Station may pool any switch out/back and related assignments with persons assigned by  
the other stations. The stations will rotate such switch out/back assignments on a basis  
that will assure that the Company's engineering employees will nondie a fair proportion  
of the pool assigaments covered by this paragraph.  
The Station will keep a record of the pool assignments made pursuant to the  
immediately preceding paragraph and wiil show which assignments were handled by  
persons assigned by other stations.  
The parties recognize that in connection with the above-described pool, it is  
possible that persons engaged by pool participants (whether or not Company employees)  
may be required to perform recovery work with respect to transmitters and related  
equipment (whether or not the Company's) utilized by other stations and take direction  
or give direction to other stations’ personnel.  
320  
Sideletter FX  
Production Control Automation  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any arbitration awards, grievance  
settlements, practices, or provisions in Article A-IV or elsewhere in the General  
Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or any of the Individual Articles in the Master  
Agreement, the following shall apply where the Company utilizes computer  
equipment covered by Sideletters DK or CX (e.g., Parkervision) to restructure  
television control room functions and responsibilities so that directorial duties  
and technica) production duties (e.g., production control switching, graphics,  
camera Operations and audio functions, etc.) are or may be combined:  
A. Any person(s) may be assigned to perform the new combined duties  
described in 1. above.  
B. The Company’s collective bargaining agreements as of May 12, 2003  
with the Guild of America covering its local television  
station operations in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and  
Chicago, permit the assignment of Directors and Associate Directors to  
“Parkervision”-type production switching duties referred to in I. above.  
C. Where the Company does not assign a Technical Director to perform  
the combined duties described in I. above, and another person(s) is  
assigned pursuant to I, A. above, (e.g., Director or Associate Director),  
no Technical Director need be present or assigned for any reason to the  
program or production concerned, including, but not limited to, set up,  
knock down, giving work instructions or assignments to NABET-CWA  
or other union-represented employees working on the production, etc.  
Further, such person(s) will have all of the operational authority and  
rights of a Technical Director to the same degree as if a Technical  
Director had been assigned. Nor shall any engineer need to be  
upgraded for any reason relating to the absence of a Technical Director  
for such program or production.  
The Company recognizes the high degree of skills, ability and experience of its  
production Technical Directors and the important rolc they have played in our  
operations. For that reason, the Company is committed to attempt to find ways to  
include Technical Directors in the opportunities to perform such new combined  
directorial and switching duties utilizing Sideletter DK or CX  
technology in the “Parkervision”-type operations described herein.  
Sidet EX Cont'd  
Since at the Campany’s network and station operations covered by the Master  
Agreement the Directors Guild of America has exclusive jurisdiction over the  
exercise of directorial judgment, control and duties, any such “Parkervision” type  
combined assignments to a Technical Director at the network or stations will  
necessarily require that person to perform duties partially within the exclusive  
jurisdiction of ihe Director’s Guild of America. Such a hyphenated arrangement  
raises difficult and complicated issues concerning membership, rates of pay,  
scheduling, benefits and other terms and conditions of employment since the  
Technical Director would be working simultancously under two different collective  
bargaining agreements. Such issues nced to be addressed hefore assignments to  
Technica! Directors can be made under such a hyphenated arrangement.  
In an effort to resulve the challenges presented so that the Technical  
Directors can be offered these opportunities, in addition to Directors and  
Associate Directors, it is agreed as follows:  
‘  
### I  
A. The parties agree to establish a Production Controt Automation  
Committee consisting of an equal number of representatives (rom both  
NABET-CWA, and the Company.  
B. Within 90 days following the ratification of the successor (o the 1997-  
2003 Master Agreement the Company will use its good offices to  
facilitate a meeting with the Guild of America. ‘The  
Company's goal in that meeting shall be to obtain agreement among the  
DGA, NABET-CWA and the Company on a single set of terms and  
conditions of employment (i.c., minimum scale, scheduling rules,  
vacation pay, benefits, seniority, union security, etc.) that would afford  
Technical Directors the opportunity on those occasions when assigned  
by the Company to perform “Parkervision’-type duties.  
Cc. If all issues are not resolved in a single meeting, the Company agrees  
to call additional meeting(s) among the DGA, Union and the Company  
as may be useful and productive in resolving the challenges presented  
in assigning Technical Directors to the combined-hyphenated work  
described herein. The Company agrees that it will make all reasonable  
efforts to resalve difficult matters such that Technical Directors may be  
assigned to this work.  
D. Any such resulting assignments to Technical Directors that may  
materialize from an accord among NABET, the Director’s Guild and the  
company will be non-jurisdictional in accordance with paragraph 3 of  
Sideletter DK.  
322  
   
Sideletter FX  
¥ Where “Parkervision’-type technalagy will be used at any ABC Network News  
broadcast operations in New York or Washington during the term of the 2003-  
2007 Master Agreement, in a traditional control/raom configuration of a Director  
and another person to do the production switching, if such other person has as his  
or her overall primary job function for the Company the responsibilities of  
production contro] switching, the other person assigned will be a NABET-CWA-  
represented Technical Director. Such assignment, however, shall be on @ non-  
Jurisdictional basis in accordance with Paragraph 3 of Sideletter DK.  
Whenever training begins within each of ABC’s television operations for  
“Parkervision”-type equipment, Technical Directors wil) be included.  
Sideletter FY  
Wash Up Pay  
In conformance with the practices elsewhere tn the Company, it is agreed that in  
Los Angeles employees are not entitled to “wash up” pay nor pay for checking their  
schedules at the completion of their shift.  
{The grievance in AH 99-13 is hereby withdrawn with prejudice and the same shall  
not be refiled.  
Sideletter FZ  
“P” Unit  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements, practices or any  
provisions to the contrary in either the General Articles, Sideletters, Stipulations or the  
“P" Agreement, the Company shall be free to assign any person or company any duties  
that are performed by persons employed under the “P” Agreement in connection with  
any major or substantial repair, renovation, restoration, upgrading, etc. The Company's  
right to assign such work pursuant to this Sideletter shall be deemed to include any work  
where the regular employees employed under the “P” Agreement do not have, in the  
good faith judgment of the Company, the skills or ability to complete the work in a  
timely manner, ¢.g., tenant improvements, janitorial duties.  
No regular employee employed in the “P” Unit as of March 31, 2003 shall be laid  
off from the employ as a direct result of the utilization of this  
Sideletter FZ,  
323  
Sideletter GA  
Segment and Specialty News Producers — San Francisco  
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the Master Agreement or any  
other agreements grievance settlements, arbitration awards or practices to the contrary,  
the following shall apply to NABET-CWaA-represented Newswniters-Producers employed  
under the F Agreement at KGO-TV as Segment or Specialty Producers as of May 12,  
2003.  
F At the Company's sole discretion, such Newswriters-Producers may be offered  
the opportunity to continue being employed by the Company as a Segment or  
Specialty Producer not employed pursuant to the Master Agreement.  
2. If the Newswriter-Producer declines such an offer, then the Company may  
continue to assign such employee to perform Segment or Specialty Producer  
duties pursuant to the Master Agreement, or may elect, at its sole discretion, to  
reassign such Newswriter-Producer to newswriting duties pursuant to the Master  
Agreement.  
d. No regular Newswriter or Producer employed under the F Agreement at KGO-  
TY on the Company's active payroll as of May 12, 2003 shall be laid off from the  
Company’s employ during the term of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement as the  
direct result of the Company's rights to assign specialty or segment producing  
duties as provided in Sideletter FG and this Sideletter GA to producers not  
employed under the Master Agreement.  
Sideletter GB  
Segment and Specialty News Producers — Chicago and Los Angeles  
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the Masier Agreement or any  
other agreements grievance settlements, arbitration awards or practices to the contrary,  
the following shall apply to NABET-CWA-represented Newswriters-Producers employed  
at WLS-TV or KABC-TY under the K or O Agreements (as applicable) as Segment or  
Specialty Producers as of May 12, 2003.  
1. At the sole discretion, such Newswriters may be offered the  
opportunity to continue being employed by the Company as a Segment or  
Specialty Producer not employed pursuant to the Master Agreement,  
324  
   
Sideletter GB Contd  
Z. If the declines such an offer, then the Company, may  
continue to assign such employee to perform Segment or Specialty Producer  
duties pursuant to the Master Agreement, or may elect, at its sole discretion, to  
reassign such Newswniter-Producer to Newswnriting duties pursuant to the Master  
Agreement.  
3. No regular Newswniter {including Newswriters assigned to producing duties)  
employed under the K or O Agreements at WLS-TV or KABC-TY, as applicable  
on the Company's active payroll as of May 12, 2003 shall be laid off from the  
Company’s employ during the term of the 2003-2007 Master Agreement as the  
direct result of the Company’s rights at WLS-TV or KABC-TV (as may be  
applicable) as provided in K3.11{e} or 03.1 L(e} (as may be applicable} and this  
Sideletter GB to assign specialty or segment producing duties to producers not  
employed under the Master Agreement.  
Sideletter GC  
Repair and/or Calibration of Equipment  
The parties agree that the Decision and Award of the Impartial Umpire in AS83-2  
and AS83-9 (November 17, 1986} shall not be precedential and that both the award and  
the practices refered to in the Award and relied on by the Arbitrator or  
Union shall not be cited by the NABET-CWA Sector {or any loca! union) or the  
Company in any future proceeding of any kind.  
Sideletter GD  
New Technology and Consolidation  
During the 2003 negotiations for a new Master Agreement, the parties discussed  
in detail the Company’s plans to consolidate the ABC Television Network “News  
Acquisition” and “Network Distribution” job functions and operations in New York, as  
defined below, through state-of-the art technological advances and more efficient job  
combination/work flow configurations. The Company recognizes and values the  
contributions made by its NABET-CWA-represented “B” Unit Traffic Coordinators and  
“A” Unit Engineers, who may be affected by such new combined operations, and is  
committed to continuing to use them, to the extent consistent with the foregoing, under  
the conditions set forth below:  
325  
(b)  
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements,  
practices, or any provisions to the contrary in either the Genera!  
Sideletters, Stipulations or any of the Individual Articles  
contained in the Master Agreement, persons other than NABET-C WA-  
represented employees may perform any function within the new  
combined News Acquisition operation, including but not limited to: (i)  
planning, scheduling and ordering facilities (including satellite, fiber  
oplic and transmission facilities), (ii) operating any equipment for the  
purpose of taking in, distributing or wansmitting NewsOne, network  
teturn feeds, or fast-breaking news material (including but not limited  
to uplinking, downlinking and imernal distribution), except the  
uplinking of ABC Television Network News programs directly to  
Network affiliates, and (iii} any work functions which, as of May [2,  
2003, were performed by “B” Unit Traffic Coordinators at the News  
Traffic Desk or in ABSAT. Any employee, however, whose overall!  
primary job function is to issue orders to procure facilities (including  
satellite, fiber optic and other transmission facilities), from existing  
inventory or otherwise, for the acquisition of material for ABC  
Television Network News programs (as distinguished from NewsOne),  
including live remote originations, elements for stories (bulk video,  
iracks and sound on tape for editing spots} and complete taped  
packages, shall be employed under the terms of the “B” Traffic  
Agreement, In recognition of the parties’ mutual desire that all  
employees in the News Acquisition operation are expected to meet  
client needs, the parties agree that nothing herein shalt be construed to  
preclude the continued non-jurisdictional assignment of such NABET-  
CWaA-represented employees to interface with various news venues  
(bureaus, remotes, etc.}, production staff, show personne! and  
newsroom staff, or resell KU satellite space to ABC affiliates,  
NewsOne clients and ABSAT members, on the basis of whichever  
employee (represented or non-represented) is available.  
Involuntary Transfers: Without prejudice to cither parties’ existing  
contractual nights, the parties agree that involuntary transfers out of the  
News Acquisition operation shall be permitted up to ninety (90) days  
after implementation of the News Acquisition Operation. Ail Unit  
Senionty pnor to the transfer shall be retained.  
326  
   
   
Notwithstanding any arbitration awards, grievance settlements,  
practices or any provisions to the contrary in either the General Articles,  
Sideletters, Stipulations or any of the Individual Articles contained in the  
Master Agreement, persons other than NABET-CWA-represented  
employees may perform any function in connection with the new  
combined ABC Television Network Distribution operation, including but  
not limited to: (i} the planning and control of downlink facilities at  
affiliates and owned stations, {ii) the scheduling and ensuring of the  
appropriate use and availability of satellite and other facilities, (iii) the  
operation of equipment necessary to distribute content to such facilities,  
{iv} performing release to air functions, (v) any monitonng, system  
failure and/or recovery functions associated with the foregoing, and  
(vi) any ABC Television Network distribution functions performed as of  
May 12, 2003 by “A” Unit employees assigned to Network Master  
Control! and release to air facilities, and “B” Unit Traffic  
assigned to Network Traffic. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence,  
any employee whase overall primary job function for the ABC Television  
Network is singly or in combination to: (i} monitor the play list from a  
release to air facility that has a Master Control switcher; (ii} route the  
output of a channel switcher to the appropriate uplink; perform  
satellite network control functions; or (iv) perform the remaining central  
switching functions, in connection with such ABC Television Network  
- Distribution operation, shal] be employed under the terms of the “A”  
Engineering Agreement. Nothing herein or any operational practice that  
may develop hereunder shall give rise to any jurisdictional claim over  
content streams combined with ABC Television Network material  
(e.g., “multiplexed” strearns).  
(b) Temporary Traffic Coordinator Assignments:  
The provisions of the “B” Agreement shall continue to apply to any  
“B” Unit Traffic Coordinator temporarily assigned to the Network  
Distribution operation.  
Upon imptementation of the Network Distribution operation, Stipulation (6)  
(Rotating Watch - New York Master Control) shall no longer apply. Prior to the  
elimination of the rotating watch, the Company and Union will meet for the  
Company to explain scheduling arrangements related to the Network  
327  
   
tter GD  
Distribution operation. Nothing in the foregotng sentence shall preclude the  
Company from exercising its right to schedule.  
4, The Union shall and hereby does withdraw grievance No. AN-02-28  
(ABSAT/NewsOne Assignments) with preyudice and agrees not to refile the  
same.  
S. The assignment of NABET-CWaA-represented employees to any duties in  
connection with the News Acquisition or Network Distribution operations under  
circumstances not encompassed within the second sentences of Paragraphs l(a}  
and 2{a) above, shall not under any circumstances constitule an expansion of  
existing jurisdiction pursuant to the Master Agreement. Nor shall the  
performance of such assignments by “A™ Unit Engineers or “B” Unit Traffic  
Coordinators entitle any such employees to continue to be piven such  
assignments, It is agreed that no claim or dispute involving an assignment made  
pursuant to this paragraph, or the failure to make such an assignment, shall be  
subject to arbitration.  
6. The terms of this Sideletter are without prejudice to the parties’ contractual rights  
contained in other provisions of the Master Agreement, including but not limited  
to CZ, CX and DK. The provisions of this Sideletter are applicable only to the  
work functions and operations described.  
Sideletter GE  
Sutro Tower  
Notwithstanding any provision in the Master Agreement or any other agreement,  
grievance settlement, arbitration awards or practices to the contrary, any person may  
perform any engineering maintenance, operations or any other duties al the Sutro Tower  
(or subsequent transmitter facility, if any) as determined necessary or convenient by  
KGO-TV management.  
No employee on KGO-TV's regular maintenance staff as of March 31, 2003 shall  
be laid off from the employ as a direct result of the of  
the Sideletter.  
Sideletter GF  
Direct Deposit  
Any NABET-CWA-represented employee, regular, daily hire, vacation relief or  
part-time, may elect to receive his or her paycheck by direct deposit in accordance with  
the provisions of the policy.  
328  
   
dideletter GH  
Section A2,2(e)9 Network and Local Station Newsgathering  
During the negotiations for the successor to the 1997-2003 Master Agreement,  
the parties discussed the long-standing and varied practices and interpretations of the  
Master Agreement at Network News operations and at each of the owned television  
Stations covered by the Master Agreement. The parties agreed to add new Section  
A2.2(e)9 in order to confirm these Master Agreement interpretations and practices.  
Accordingly, any grievance filed at each Company office that disputes the  
Company’s rights set forth in new Section A2.2(e)9 ate hereby withdrawn with prejudice  
and the Union agrees not to refile the same. The grievances melude but are not limited  
to AHO] -45 and AH03-02.  
Within sixty (60) days following notice of ratification of the Master  
Agreement, the parties shall meet at the New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and  
Washington, DC Network News operations, and at KABC-TV, KGO-TV, WABC-TV and  
WLS-TV to review in detail the past practices and interpretations of the Master  
Agreement referred to in Section A2.2(e)9. The parties acknowledge that there may be  
different facts and circumstances at cach station or each Network News operation, and  
that the intention in new A2.2(e)9 and this Sideletter is to recognize and confirm  
whatever the relevant contractual interpretations and practices may be at  
each Network News operation or station. As part of these discussions, the Company  
reiterates that it will provide notices to the Union as required in the appropriate sections  
of the Master Agreement.  
In confirming such practices the parties recognize that the ebb and flow of  
news that may impact Network News operations and each station’s news coverage will  
necessarily result in greater or fewer instances of wark covered by A2.2(e)9. The parties  
agree to confirm such practices to guide operations under that Section with reference to  
the long-view and not for any particular week, month or year.  
Sideletter G]  
Los Angeles and San Francisco 8.10(c)  
The following shali be applicable only in the Los Angeles and San Francisco  
offices of the Company. In the Los Angeles and San Francisco offices of the Company,  
the Company has argued and some Impartial Umpires have agreed in arbitration  
decisions, that the Company need not send a notice pursuant to Section 8.10(c), unless  
the notice involved changes that might result in an increased workload, physical or  
mental strain or other circurnstances referred to in Section 8,10(c) (i) or {ii}.  
329  
   
in the Los Angeles or San Francisco offices of the Company, notwithstanding  
any provision to the contrary in the Master Agreement or any other agreements,  
gnievance settlements, arbitration awards, or practices to the contrary, the parties agree  
that the Company is required to send notice, in accordance with Section 3,10(c) of the  
Master Agrecment, in advance of the operational use of new technical equipment or  
significant change in any established method of operation as provided in 8.1 0{c) and not  
merely in cases where the Union may claim that the Company’s action will violate  
Section 8.10(c) (i) and (ii).  
Sideletter GJ  
Radio Network or Syndicated Programs  
### KABC-AM, KLOS-FM, WABC-AM  
This will confirm our understanding in the negotiations for the to the  
1997-2003 Master Agreement regarding the Company's proposal to modify Section T2.),  
Sideletter #10 and Sidcletter #19 [New]. The discussions on this proposal shall not be  
considered a precedent by cither party, and shal] not be cited in any arbitration or other  
proceeding that may arise hereafter, nor shall any of the foregoing prejudice the position  
of either party as to any issue that may arise in the future concerning Network or  
Syndicated programming that originales from the studios of KABC-AM, KLOS-FM  
andfor WABC-AM.  
Sideleiter GK  
Effect of "A" Unit Rate Compression  
The parties agree to the following, at] of which are effective August 9, 2003, in  
connection with “A” Unit Rate Compression:  
l. There shall no longer be any pay escalators. As a result, Article 11.5 relating to  
Pay Seniority shall no Jonger apply to “A” Unit Engineers.  
2. The Settlement Agreement dated August %, 1996 resulting from the Award of  
Impartial Umpire Christine Knowlton, relating to “A” Unit Daily Hire pay  
progression, and all practices that may have arisen out of that Agreement, shall be  
null and void and of no further force and effect.  
3. The following Sideletiers or sub-sections thereof shall be deleted: AB (sub-  
sections 3 and 9, 10 and 11), AB-) {sub-sections 4 and 7), AZ, CM-1, CM-2, CT,  
CU, EV and FN, and alt references thereto in the Master Agreement.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following sentence from Sideletter AB,  
subseciion 3 shalt remain: “The duties of video tape librarians may include the  
loading and unloading of tape cartridge machines.”  
330  
10.  
tH.  
Sidetetter GK Cont'd  
The Field Utility rates shall apply only to field pickups and only to employees  
who have worked for the Company twenty (20) or fewer cumulative days. The  
Company will assign at least one employee at the Utility rate for every four (4)  
Field Utilities assigned. Only employces who have worked for the Company  
twenty (20) or fewer cumulative days may be hired as Field Utilities. Employees  
hired ut the Field Utility rate may not be upgraded to higher classifications  
without the Company thereafter losing the ability to again hire such individuals at  
the Field Utility rate.  
Persons hired on a daily basis at the Field Utility rate shall not recetve any  
payment in lieu of benefits.  
The ten {10} hour rate shall be at the Company’s option and shal! apply in the  
field only.  
The regular rate for those persons hired on a daily basis at the ten (10) hour rate  
shalt be calculated by dividing that rate by ten. Such persons shall be paid for  
hours in excess of ten (10} in a day or forty (40) in a week at one and onc-half  
(1-1/2) times the regular rate for time worked in quarter (1/4} hour segments.  
With respect to future hires or engagements at KGO-TY, the under two (2) year  
rate shall be available at the station’s option for studio positions during the first  
two (2) years of a regular employec’s employment with KGO-TY. This is intended  
as a training rate and will apply during such time period regardless of the studio  
job function to which the employee is assigned. With respect to employees hired  
on a daily basis, the under two (2) year rate shall apply until the employee has  
worked four hundred forty (440) days for the Company.  
The parties agree ta conform relevant contract provisions to compressed  
classifications and specification of daily hire rates,  
The Company, at its option, may pay regular or temporary engineering employees  
for work within the Group 2, Group 5 or Group 7 classifications for up to one (1)  
year at an in-hire rate of $950 per week for Groups 2 or 5, or an in-hire rate of  
$1,100 for Group 7. This subparagraph 10 shall not apply at KGO-TY.  
For purposes of determining the length of time the Company can pay an  
employee the “under two (2) year rate” at KGO-TY set forth in paragraph 8,  
or the in-hire rates set forth in paragraph 10, a laid-off temporary employce’s  
pay seniority shall include all time worked for the Company in the Unit,  
33!  
   
which was separated by intervals of less than one (1) year.  
Sideletter GL.  
Grievance Withdrawals  
The Union hereby withdraws with prejudice and agrees not to refile all  
outstanding International grievances and any local grevances raising the same issue to  
the extent any such grievances have not been setiled in full, including but not limited to  
the following:  
AlO-01-03 (Sony Supersuntes)  
AIO-01-04 (Maintenance Assignments/Training)  
AIO-9)-05 (Media Center Group 7 Replacement)  
AlO-01-06 {Audio/Video Post-Production Lay Off}  
AIO-01 -07 (CD Burner}  
AlO-01-08 (EditStar)  
AlO-0)-09 (Robotic Cameras)  
AiO-01-10 (Computerized Graphic Display Devices)  
AIO-01-12 (Non-Linear Editing)  
AlO-01-13 (Picture Box)  
AIO-O1-14 (Computerized Graphic Display Devices)  
AlO-02-01 (Sports Record Machines}  
Al0-02-02 (Satellite Controller)  
AIO-02-03 {KABC Media Center)  
Sideletier GM  
Transmitter Engineer Supervisor  
Any employee regularty assigned in television as a Group 7 supervisor or a  
engineer will be paid Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) per week above the  
minimum Group 7 scale in Section A3.1. Where at any television station there are two  
(2) of more transmitter engineers, the Company will designate one (1) as the transmitter  
engineer supervisor and only such supervisor will be entitled to the Twenty-Five Dollars  
($25.00) payment. No employee shall be entitled to any upgrade or additional payment  
of any kind because of the absence of the supervisor or transmitter engineer (or  
engineer supervisor where applicable),  
332  
   
Sideletter GN_  
### WABC-TV TWO PERSON ENG CREW RATE  
During the course of the negotiations for the successor to the 1997-2003 Master  
Agreement, the parties discussed the discontinuance of the Group 6/3 rotation for two-  
person crews at WABC-TV in the context of the proposed upgrades to Group 5 and  
Group 7 for persons assigned to those crews. The parties concluded that because of the  
unusual circumstances and history of ENG crew assignments at the station, that it was in  
the mutual interest of the employees, the Station and the Union to provide one single rate  
in the future to all persons assigned to such crews, As a result, the parties agree to the  
following rates for staff employees assigned to two-person ENG crews:  
Minimum Wage Scale Per Week:  
$/9/03- 3/7/04- 8/6/05- 8/5/06-  
8/6/04 8/3/05 $/4/06 JA/07  
$1407.00 $1449.00 $1492.50 $1537.50  
The parties arrived at the foregoing rates by taking the average of the Group 7  
and Group 5 rates. Persons engaged on a daily basis assigned to two-person ENG crews  
shall be paid for each day so worked a daily rate equal one-fifth (1/5) of the above-  
referenced weekly wage scale, The parties acknowledge that employees assigned to two-  
person crews may during the term of the contract be trained and assigned to edit in the  
ENG vehicle in the field or in the Station's facilities, and the Company has agreed to the  
above-specified increased rate in consideration thereof.  
On any day where an employee regularly classified at the rate set forth in this  
Sideletter actually works the majority of his or her entire tour (including overtime) in the  
field a5 a one-person crew, such employee shall be paid at the Group 7 wage scale as a  
daily upgrade. Work as a one-person crew shall include only that period of time when  
the employee is performing an approved one (1) person assignment, including any  
loading or unloading time immediately prior or thereafter by that one (1) person only.  
WABC-TV agrees to meet with the Union periodically during the term of this  
Agreement to review and determine whether both parties are complying with the intent  
of the foregoing language.  
The above stated rate agreement shall remain in effect at least during the term  
of this contract. In connection with negotiations for a successor contract thereto, the  
parties agree to revisit this issue in negotiations.  
333  
   
Sideletter GO  
“O” Unit Daily Hires  
The letter of agreement concerning the use of daily hires in the “O”* unit dated  
March 16, 1999 is null and void.  
{See Section O3.14(a).}  
Sideletter GP  
Sideletter GD Wage Rates  
The minimum wage rate for any Traffic Coordinators assigned to the News  
Acquisition Operation pursuant to Sideletter GD, paragraph | (a) shall be $1377  
effective September 27, 2003, further increased one (1) ycar thereafter to $1418.00, and  
further increased one (1) year thereafter to $1461.00, and further increased one (1) year  
thereafter to $1505.00. The foregoing rates, however, shall not be effective until the new  
News Acquisition operation is fully and completely operational.  
Sideletter GO  
ABC-NABET Retirement Plan  
I. The parties shall take all steps necessary to require their respective Trustees to adopt  
the following amendment to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust for the  
ABC-NABET Retirement Trust Fund (“Trust Agreement”) simultaneously with the  
amendment set forth in paragraph II:  
### AMENDMENT NO. } TO THE  
### AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST  
### FOR THE ABC-NABET RETIREMENT TRUST FUND  
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Trustees”) of the ABC-NABET  
Retirement Trust Fund has adopted the Amended and Restated Agreement and  
Declaration of Trust for the ABC-NABET Retirement Trust Fund (the “Fund”), as  
amended and restated in May 1999 (the “Trust Agreement"); and  
WHEREAS, Article X1 of the Trust Agreement provides that the Trustees may  
amend the Trust Agreement al any time; and  
WHEREAS, the Trustees wish to amend the Trust Agreement in the manner set  
forth herein;  
   
NOW, THEREFORE, IT 1S RESOLVED by the Trustees of the Fund that the  
Trust Agreement is amended, adopted as of September 18, 2003 and effective as of  
September 26, 2003, as follows:  
I. Article [, Section 1: Article I, Section ! of the Trust Agreement is  
amended by deleting the existing text in Hs entirety and replacing it  
with the following:  
The terms “ABC-NABET Retirement Trust Plan” or “Retirement Plan”  
shal] mean the plan, program, method and procedure for the payment  
by ihe Trustees of the benefits from the Trust Fund in accordance with  
the rules and regulations relating to eligibility requirements, retirement  
age, amount and computation of benefits, as thereafter amended in  
accordance with its terms.  
; 2. Article JE: Article [I is amended by deleting the first sentence thereof  
and replacing it with the following:  
The purpose of the Trust Fund shall be to provide, pursuant to the  
Retirement Plan pension benefits for retired employces and, to the  
extent so provided in the Retirement Plan, the provision for payment of  
kindred benefits to retired emptoyees or their beneficiaries.  
3. Article IIL, Section 1: Article tl, Section ! is amended by deleting the  
first sentence thereof and replacing it with the following:  
Except as provided in Article V, Section [ of this Trust Agreement, the  
operation and administration of the Trust Fund and the Retirement Plan  
shalt be the responsibility of six Trustees, three designated by the  
International President of the Union and three designated by any officer  
of the Company.  
4, Article 1V, Section 1: Article IV, Section 1 is amended by deleting the  
existing text in its entirety and replacing it with the following:  
The Retirement Plan shall qualify and remain qualified under the  
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code so that contributions made by  
the Company to the Trust Fund are tax deductible expenses for the  
Company and are not taxable income to the employees in the year in  
which the contributions are made, and so that the Trust Fund ts exempt  
from taxation.  
5, Article V. Section 1: Article V, Section | is amended by adding the  
following after the first sentence thereof:  
335  
   
Sideletter GO Cont'd  
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything in this Amended  
Trust Agreement to the contrary, except with respect to the Retirement  
Plan amendment adopted simultaneously with this provision, the  
Trustees shall not have the authority to adopt any amendment to the  
Retiremem Plan or the Trust Agreement that directly or indirectly  
affects the level of benefits paid to participants or beneficiaries of the  
Retirement Plan (including, without limitation, amendments related to  
the level or subsidization of early retirement or disabiliry benefits,  
eligibility tor normal or early retirement or disability benefits, the  
benefit accrual formula, percentage of compensation used to calculate  
benefit accruals, the definition of compensation or pay used to  
calculate benefit accruals, the addition or modification of benefit  
changes (ad hoc or otherwise) for retirees and beneficiaries, and the  
addition or modification of any Retirement Plan feature that could  
increase projected Retirement Plan benefit costs), With respect to any  
amendment to the Retirement Plan or the Trust Agreement that directly  
or indirectly affects the level of benefits paid to participants or  
beneficiaries of the Retirement Plan (other than this Trust Agreement  
and Retirement Plan amendment adopted simultaneously with this  
provision), the Retirement Plan and the Trust Agreement may be  
amended only in accordance with Section 23,1{e} as set forth in the  
successor to the NABET-CWA ABC Master Agreement 1997-2003 or  
any subsequent successor thereto.  
6. Article V, Section 5: Article ¥, Section § is amended by deleting the  
existing text of Subparagmph 4(c) in its entirety and replacing it with  
the following:  
Subject to the limitations of Article V, Section | of this Amended Trust  
Agreement, the Trustees may adopt administrative rules and regulations  
as they may deem necessary and proper for the administration and  
operation of the Retirement Plan and shall promulgate the foregoing,  
provided that none of the administrative rules or regulations shall  
conflict with the terms of this Amended Trust Agreement or collective  
bargaining agreements.  
7. Article Xt: Arucle Xi is amended by adding the following after the  
existing text thereof:  
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Trustees shall not have the  
authority to amend or modify the second and third sentences of Article  
V, Section | of this Amended Trust Agreement or to adopt any  
336  
   
Sideletter GO Cont'd  
amendment or modification inconsistent therewith. The second and  
third sentences of Article V, Section 1 of this Amended Trust  
Agreement may be amended only in accordance with Section 23.1(e) as  
set forth in the successor to the NABET-CWA ABC Master Agreement  
1997-2003 or any subsequent successor thereto.  
li. The parties shall take all steps necessary to require their respective Trustees to  
adopt the following amendment to the Pension Plan Text of the ABC-NABET  
Retirement Trust Plan simultaneously with the Trust Agreement  
amendment set forth in paragraph |:  
### AMENDMENT TO THE PENSION PLAN TEXT OF THE  
### ABC-NABET RETIREMENT TRUST PLAN  
(as amended and restated through January 1, 2001)  
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the Board”) of the ABC-NABET Retirement  
Trust Fund (the “Fund’”) has adopted the Pension Plan Text of the ABC-NABET  
Retirement Trust Plan (the “Plan”), as amended and restated through January J, 2001;  
WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Plan provides that the Plan may be amended at  
any time by the Board;  
WHEREAS, the Board has upon due consideration decided to amend the Plan in  
the manner hereinafter set forth;  
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT, in consideration of the  
foregoing premises, the Plan is hereby amended as follows, adopted as of September 18,  
2003 and effective as of September 26, 2003, except as otherwise provided herein:  
1. Section 25: Section !,25 of the Plan is amended by deleting the  
existing text in its entirety and replacing it with the following:  
Plan. “Plan” means this document as adopted by the Trustees and as  
thereafter amended in accordance with its terms.  
2. Section 2,02: Section 2.02 of the Plan is amended, effective January !,  
2004, by deleting the existing text of Section 2.02(a) in its entirety and  
replacing it with the following:  
337  
   
A Participant who retires at his Normal Retirement Date shall  
be eligible to receive a Retirement Payment and shall be  
100% vested in his'Normal Retirement Payment. Far ail  
Participants who retire or terminate bargaining unit  
employment on or after January |, 1983 the annual amount  
of such Retirement Payments shall be 1.2% of the  
Participant's Final Average Pay multiplied by his total years  
of Past and Future Service, except as otherwise provided for  
in Section 2.09.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for all Participants who retire  
oF terminate bargaining unit employment on oF after July |,  
1986, the annual amount of such Retirement Payments shall  
be 1.35% of the Participant’s Fina] Average Pay multiplied by  
the Participant's years of Past and Future Service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective July 1, 1987, for all  
Participants who retire or terminate bargaining unit  
employment on or after July 1, 1987, the annual amount of  
such Retirement Payments shall be 1.42% of the Participant's  
Final Average Pay multiplied by the Participant's total years  
of Past and Future Service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 1989, for  
all Participants and employees on Leave of Absence as  
described in Sections 5.03(b} and 5.03(c)¢i), (ii), and (v) who  
retire or terminate bargaining unit employment on or after  
January 1, 1989, the annual amount of such Retirement  
Payments shall be 1.49% of the Participant’s Final Average  
Pay multiplied by the total years of Past and  
Future Service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 1992, for  
all who have at least one Hour of Service on or  
after January 1, 1992, the annual amount of such Retirement  
Payments shall be 1.525% of the Participant’s Final Average  
Pay multiplied by the Participant’s total years of Past and  
Future Service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 1994, for  
al] Participants who have at ieast one Hour of Service on or  
after January 1, 1994, the annual amount of such Retirement  
338  
   
Rideletter GO Contd  
Payments shall be 1.60% of the Participant’s Final Average  
‘Pay multiplied by the Participant's total years of Past and  
Future Service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January |, 1997, for  
all Participants who have at least one Hour of Service on or  
after December |, 1996, the annual amount of such  
Retirement Payments shall be of the Final  
Average Pay multiplied by the Participant’s total years of Past  
and Future Service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 1998, for  
all Participants who have at least one Hour of Service on or  
after December |, 1997, the annual amount of such  
Retirement Payments shall be t.79% of the Participant’s Final  
Average Pay by the Participant’s total years of Past  
and Future Service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January |, 1999, for  
ail Participants who have at least one Hour of Service on or  
after December 1, 1998, the annual amount of such  
Retirement Payments shall be of the Final  
Average Pay multiplied by the Participant’s total years of Past  
and Future Service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January |, 2000, for  
all Participants who have at least one Hour of Service on or  
aficr December |, 1999, the amount of such Retirement  
Payments shall be 2.03% of the Final Average  
Pay muitiplied by the total years of Past and  
Future Service.  
For the purposes of the foregoing calculations, a Participant  
shall not accumulate credit for more than 35 total years of  
Past and Future Service. However, effective January 1, 1989,  
a Participant shall not accumulate credit for more than 37  
total years of Past and Future Service. However, effective  
January 1, 1992, a Participant who has at least one Hour of  
Service on or after January 1, [992 shail not accumulate  
credit for more than 40 total years of Past and Future Service.  
339  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 2004,  
with respect to ali Participants who have at least one Hour of  
Service on or after December |, 2003, the annual amount of  
such Retirement Payments shall be the sum of (i) and (ii):  
(i) 2.03% of the Participant's Final Average Pay  
multiplied by the Participant’s total years of Past  
and Future Service earned prior to January |, 2004  
(up to a maximum of 40 such years); and  
(ii) 9,65% of the Participant's Final Average Pay  
multiplied by the Participant’s total years of Future  
Service earned on and after January 1, 2004 (up to  
a maximum number of years equal to 40 years less  
the number of years of Pasi Service and Future  
Service recognized under subparagraph {i) above).  
Section 2,02: Section 2.02 of the Plan is amended, effective January 1,  
2004, by deleting the existing text of Section 2.02(b) in its entirety and  
replacing it with the following:  
(b)  
However, in no case shall a Participant who was hired prior to  
January |, 1983 receive Retirement Payments less than that  
produced by the sum of (1), (ii) and (iii):  
(i) 1.90% of the Participant’s Base Pay for the Plan  
Year (978 times his years of Past Service and  
Future Service prior to January 1, 1979;  
(11) 1.90% of the Participant’s Base Pay during each  
Plan Year of Future Service afler December 3},  
1978 and prior to January 1, 2004; and  
(iii) 0.65% of the Participant’s Base Pay during each  
Plan Year of Future Service after December 31,  
2003.  
For any Participant who was on an authorized leave of  
absence during 1978, the average of his contractual weekly  
1978 Base Pay (as stated in the Collective Bargaining  
Agreement) multiplied by 52 shall be used in (1) above.  
340  
Sideletter GO Cont'd  
However, if a Participant accumulates credit for more than 35  
years of Past and Future Service, the amount of Retirement  
Payment shall be determined on the basis of his last 35 years  
of such service.  
However, effective January |, 1989, if a Participant  
accumulates credit for more than 37 years of Past and Future  
Service, the amount of Retirement Payment shall be  
determined on the basis of his last 37 Years of such service.  
However, effective January |, 1992, if a Participant who has  
at least one Hour of Service on or after January 1, 1992  
accumulates credit for more than 40 years of Past and/or  
Future Service, the amount of Retirement Payment shalt be  
determined on the basis of his last 40 Years of such service.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Participant  
who was hired prior to January 1, 1983, in no event shall the  
amount calculated under this Section 2,02(b) as of any date  
be Jess than the amount calculated under this Section 2.62(b)  
at any prior date.  
Section 2,09: Section 2.09 of the Plan is amended, effective January |,  
2004, by deleting the existing text of Section 2.09(d)} in its entirety and  
replacing it with the following:  
{d) The benefit formula for the purposes of determining the  
annual amount of Retirement Benefit of a Participant, to  
which Section 2.09(c} applies, shall be equal to the sum of  
the following:  
{i} Applicable benefit rate from Section 2.09(c) of the  
Participant’s Base Pay for the week commencing  
February 2, 1963 times 52 and times his years of  
Past Service.  
(11) Applicable benefit rate from Section 2.09(c) of  
the Participant’s Base Pay during each Plan Year  
of Future Service to the date his employment  
ceased under the Collective Bargaining Agreement;  
provided, however, that the applicable benefit  
rate shall be no greater than 0.65% for each  
year of Plan Year of Future Service on  
34!  
Sidelener GO Cont'd  
or after January 1, 2004 until the date the  
Porticipant’s employment ceased under the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
a, Section 9.01: Section 9.0) of the Plan is amended by deleting the first  
sentence thereof and replacing it with the following:  
Except as provided in this Section 9.01, this Plan may be amended at  
any time by the Trustees, consistent with the provisions of the Trust  
Agreement. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything herein  
to the contrary, except with respect to the Plan amendments adopted  
simultaneously with this provision, the Trustees shail not have the  
authority to adopt any amendment to the Plan that directly or indirectly  
affects the level of benefils paid to participants or beneficiaries of the  
Plan (including, without limitation, amendments related to the level or  
subsidization of early retirement or disability benefits, chgibility for  
normal or early retirement or disability benefits, the benefit accrual  
formula, percentage of compensation used to calculate benefit accruals,  
the definition of compensation or pay used to calculate benefit  
accruals, the addition or modification of benefit changes (ad hoc or  
otherwise) for retirees and and the addition or  
modification of any Plan feature that could increase projected Plan  
benefit costs), With respect to any amendment to the Plan that directly  
or indirectly affects the ievel of benefits paid to participants or  
beneficiaries of the Plan {other than the Plan amendments adopted  
simultaneously with this provision), the Plan may be amended only in  
accordance with Section 23.1(e} as set forth in the successor to the  
NABET-CWA ABC Master Agreement 1997-2003 or any subsequent  
successor thereto,  
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, THAT the Trustees hereby direct the  
Plan Administrator (or its delegate) to distribute, no later than November ], 2003, a  
notice to participants (and all other legally required persons or entities) that satisfies the  
requirements of Section 204 (h) of ERISA and Section 4980F of the Internal Revenue  
Code of 1986 {and any regulations issued under either of them) with respect to the  
modifications made herem;  
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, THAT in the event that such a notice is  
not distributed by November |, 2003 as set forth above, the Trustees hereby irrevocably  
appoint the Company as their agent responsible for approving and distributing such  
notice.  
342  
I. Mandatory Adjustment to Pension Formula.  
For purposes of this paragraph III, the following terms shall have the following  
meaning:  
“PMVA” shall mean the projected market value of assets at 12/31/2006  
determined in accordance with subparagraph C, below;  
“PVFC” shall mean the projected present value of future contnbutions  
as of 12/31/2006 determined in accordance with subparagraph D,  
below;  
“PYVFB” shall mean the projected present value of future benefits as of  
12/31/2006, determined in accordance with subparagraph E, below; and  
“PVFE” shall mean the projected present value of future administrative  
expenses as of 12/31/2006, determined in accordance with  
subparagraph F, below.  
A. j nsion Fi  
If, based on the stipulated assumptions and methods set forth in  
subparagraphs C, D, E and F, below, the sum of PMVA plus PVFC  
exceeds the sum of PVFB plus PVFE, then the bargaining parties shall  
amend the Plan, effective December 31, 2006, to increase the benefit  
accrual rate set forth in Sections 2.02(a), 2.02(b} and 2.09(d)(ii) of the  
Plan solely with respect to Future Service earned after December 31,  
2003 and before January 1, 2007 from 0.65% to such benefit accrual  
rate which, if applied to all Future Service earned after December 31,  
2003, would resuit in an increase in PYFB, such that the sum of PMVA  
plus PVFC would cqual the sum of PVFB plus PVFE. Such benefit  
accrual rate shall apply only to active participants in the Plan who are  
active employees of the Company (or employees of the Company  
treated as though they are in active employment under Section 5,03(a)  
or (b) of the Plan) as of December 3], 2006. Such benefit accrual rate  
shall be rounded to the nearest .01%. However, m no event shall] such  
benefit accrual rate exceed 1.68%. Exccpt as provided in sub-  
paragraph (B) below, the benefit accrual rate set forth in Sections  
2.02(a), 2.02(b) and 2.09(d){ii) of the Plan will remain at 0.65% with  
respect to Future Service earned after December 31, 2006.  
343  
B. Amount of Decrease in Pension Formula  
If, based on the stipulated assumptions and methods set forth in  
subparagraphs C, D, E and F, below, the sum of PMVA plus PVFC is  
less than the sum of PVFB plus PVFE, then the bargaining parties shall  
amend the Plan, effective January |, 2007, to decrease the benefit  
accrual rate set forth in Sections 2.02(a), 2.02(b) and 2,09(d)(ii) of the  
Plan with respect to Future Service earned after December 3), 2006  
from 0.65% to such benefit accrual rate which, if applied to all Future  
Service eamed after December 31, 2006, would result in 4 decrease in  
PVFB such that the sum of PMVA plus PVFC would equal the sum of  
PVFB plus PVFE. Such benefit accrual rate shall be rounded to the  
nearest .01%. However, in no event will such benefit accrual rate be  
less than 0.00%.  
i. Projecte V;  
The projected market value of assets at 12/31/2006 shall be determined  
to be equal to (1) + (2) - (3) + (4) — (5) — (6) + (7) where items (1)  
through (7) equa! the following:  
(1) The market value of assets as of June 30, 2006, as reported  
by the asset custodian (including accrued interest and  
dividends, and adjusted for amounts due from or to brokers  
for sale or purchase of investments);  
(2) The amount of cumulative Employer contributions due and  
payable to the Plan based on the 5.50% negotiated  
contribution rate for the period between January |, 2004 and  
June 30, 2006 less the cumulative amount of contributions  
actually received by the Plan as of June 30, 2006 with respect  
to Plan Years beginning on and after January 1, 2004;  
(3) The Plan’s estimated accounts payable and accrued expenses  
as of Junc 3G, 2006;  
{4) Estimated Employer contributions due and payable to the  
Plan based on the 5.50% negotiated contribution rate for the  
period between July |, 2006 and December 31, 2006 (which  
shall be deemed to equal such estimated amount due and  
payable for the period between January 1, 2006 and  
June 30, 2006);  
344  
Sidetetter GO Contd  
(5) Estimated administrative expenses to be incurred by the Plan  
for the period July 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 (which  
shal] be deemed to equal the annual average of such incurred  
administrative expenses for the years 2002 through 2005,  
inclusive, less the estimated amount of administrative  
expenses actually incurred between January 1, 2006 and June  
30, 2006);  
(6) Estimated benefit payments for the period July |, 2006 to  
_ December 3), 2006 (which shall be deemed to equal the  
amount of benefit payments for the period January 1, 2006  
through June 30, 2006 as reported by the Plan’s asset  
custodian);  
(7) Estimated expected investment return for the period July I,  
2006 to December 31, 2006, which shali be deemed to equal  
the following:  
0375 x { (1) + (2) —(3) + Vn x (4) — "42 x (5) — FA2 x (6) }  
Vv tributi £12/31/2  
The projected present value of future contributions as of 12/31/2006  
shall be determined to be equa] to 1.075 x .055 x {{1) — (2) } where the  
*“ 1)” in the immediately preceding equation in this paragraph D equals  
the “actuarial present value of future salaries” as of January I, 2006,  
determined based on participant data as of January |, 2006 used or to  
be used by the Plan’s actuary for purposes of his January 1, 2006  
actuarial valuation. This amount shall be determined in accordance with  
the same actuarial assumptions set forth in the Plan’s actuary’s onginal  
report (dated September 12, 2002) on the Plan’s actuana! valuation as  
of January |, 2002 (the “September 12 Report”), and in the same  
manner as Exhibit III, item 5 on page 4-4 of the September 12 Report.  
The “(2)” in the immediately preceding equation in this subparagraph  
D equals “total salaries of participants below the last assumed  
retirement age” as of January 1, 2006 determined based on participant  
data as of January 1, 2006 used or to be used by the Plan’s actuary for  
purposes of his January 1, 2006 actuarial valuation. This amount shall  
be determined in the same manner as Exhibit III, item 7 on page 4-4 of  
the September |2 Report.  
345  
ideletter  
E.  
ont’  
Projected Present Value of Future Benefits as of 12/31/2006  
The projected present value of future benefits as of 12/31/2006 shalt be  
determined to be equal to 1.075 x (1} — 1.040625 x (2) where the  
in the immediately preceding equation in this subparagraph E equals  
the actuarial present value of future benefits as of January 1, 2006,  
determined based on participant data as of January !, 2006 uscd or to  
be used by the Plan’s actuary for purposes of his January |, 2006  
actuarial valuation. This amount shalt be determined in accordance with  
the same actuanal assumptions set forth in the Septembcr |2 Report,  
and in the same manner as Exhibit IIE, item 1 on page 4-4 of the  
September 12 Report. The “(2)” in the immediately preceding equation  
in this subparagraph E, equals the estimated benefit payments for the  
year 2006. This amount shall be determined to be equal to two times  
subparagraph C, item (6}, above.  
12/31/2006  
Fhe projected present value of future administrative expenses as of  
12/3 1/2006 shall be determined to be equal to the present value as of  
December 31, 2006 of assumed administrative expenses for the years  
2007 through 2046, inclusive, where  
(1) Assumed administrative expenses for the year 2007 shall be  
determined to be equa! to the annual average of the  
administrative expenses incurred by the Plan for the years  
2002 through 2005, inclusive;  
(2) Assumed administrative expenses are assumed to increase  
each year afler 2007 at the rate of 3% per year;  
(3) Assumed administrative expenses for cach year are assumed  
to be patd in the middie of each year; and  
(4) The present value as of 12/31/2006 is to be determined using  
an assumed discount rate of 7,50% per year compounded  
annually.  
{t is conclusively agreed by the parties that the application of the  
assumptions set forth in this subparagraph 1, F wall yield the result  
that the projected present value of future administrative expenses as of  
346  
Sidelett GOC ud  
12/3 1/2006 shalt be equal to 18.8629 multiplied by the annual average  
of the administrative expenses incurred by the Plan for the years 2002  
through 2005, inclusive.  
Procedure  
On or before July 31, 2006, the Plan’s actuary shall deliver to the  
parties a written report providing the amount of increase or decrease in  
the pension formula per subparagraph A or B, above, and detailing all  
items affecting the determination of said increase or decrease. For  
purposes of making this determination, the Plan’s actuary shall rely on  
the Plan’s asset custodian to provide the value of the Plan’s investments  
per subparagraph C (1), above, and the amount of benefit payments per  
subparagraph C (6), above, and the Plan's actuary shall rely on the  
Plan's auditor to provide estimates of the amounts per subparagraphs C  
(2), (3), (4) and (5), above. No later than April 30, 2006 (or as soon as  
practicable thereafter), the Plan will provide the Plan’s actuary with  
participant census data necessary for the Plan’s actuary to complete its  
report, Copies of such data will contemporaneously be provided to the  
Company's designated actuary and the Union's designated actuary.  
When the Plan’s actuary has compiled the data provided by the Plan  
into actuarial data for use in the valuations, the Plan’s actuary shall  
provide copies to the Company's designated actuary and the Union’s  
designated actuary. For any matter with respect to which the Plan’s  
actuary is to rely on data provided by the Plan’s asset custodian under  
this paragraph ILI, to the extent that such custodian is unable or  
unwilling to provide the necessary data, the Plan’s actuary may rely on  
estimates of such data from the Plan's independent auditor.  
As soon as practicable after the receipt of the report from the Plan’s  
actuary, the parties shall adopt a resolution amending the Plan to  
conform to such report, and shall forthwith take all steps necessary to  
require their respective Trustees to implement all administrative actions  
required by such amendment(s) on a timely basis. In the event of a  
decrease in the benefit accrual rate in accordance with subparagraph B  
above, such administrative actions shall include, without limitation, the  
disiribution of a timely notice required under Section 204(h} of ERISA  
and Section 4980F of the Internal Revenue Code to permit a January 1,  
2007 effective date.  
347  
Sidelerter GO Cont'd  
### IV.  
Dispute Resolution Procedure for Paragraph II (Calculating Mandatory  
Adjustment to Pension Formula).  
In the event of any dispute arising out of the determination of a mandatory  
adjustment to the pension formula as provided im paragraph Hl above, including  
without limitation, any dispute over data or assumptions underlying such  
calculations, the following dispute resolution procedure shall apply.  
A.  
ti n ’s Report  
Within thirty (30) days following the parties’ receipt of the Plan  
actuary’s report in IIEG. above, either the Company or the Union may  
object to the Plan's actuary’s report by providing the other party with  
written objections to the report including, where appropriate, an  
actuarial analysis supporting the objections.  
tan jecti  
Within thirty (30) days following receipt of the objections provided in  
subparagraph A., above, the party receiving objections shall either  
accept the objections or provide a written response thereto, with, where  
appropriate, actuarial analysis. Failure to provide such written response  
within the thirty (30) days after receipt of the initial objections to the  
Plan's actuary's report shall be deemed final acceptance of the  
objecting party's position.  
tion of Plan’ tua  
The Plan's actuary shall cooperate fully with both pasties in providing  
information as reasonably needed for each party to prepare objections  
or to respond to objections provided by the other party. To the extent  
permitted by law, the costs of the Plan's actuary to provide such  
information shal] be the Plan's obligation.  
s rbitrati  
(i) ifthe parties do not resolve any objections by mutual  
agreement, then either party may commence an arbitration  
under Section 20.6 of the NABET-CWA ABC Master  
Agreement 1997-2003 (or any successor thereto) (the  
“Master Agreement”) by written notice to the other party.  
The arbitration shall proceed in the manner provided for a  
348  
(2)  
(3)  
ideleiter nt’  
grievance involving more than one {1) office of the Company.  
The arbitration shall commence no later than October 10,  
2006 or as soon thereafter as the Impartial Umpire is  
available. The Impartial Umpire for purposes of this Dispute  
Resolution Procedure shall be a Neutral Actuary selected by  
the mutual agreement of an actuary designated by the  
Company and an actuary designated by the Union, who shal]  
serve as duly designated impartial Umpire under the Master  
Agreement. If there is no agreement on a Neutral Actuary,  
then the Impartial Umpire under Section 20.6 of the Master  
Agreement for grievances involving more than one office  
Shall hear the dispute.  
The issue before the Impartia! Umpire shall be whether the  
amount of increase or decrease in the pension formula, if any,  
set forth in the written report provided by the actuary  
in sub-paragraph II] G, above, complies with the Mandatory  
Adjustment set forth in paragraph [Il and what the benefit  
accrua! rates should be. In making such determination the  
Impartial Umpire must elect in his or her Decision and Award  
to adopt the benefit accrual rates: (a). as propased by the  
Plan’s Actuary in the report provided in G. above, {b), as  
proposed by the Company pursuant to 1V. A or B, above; or  
{co}. as proposed by the Union pursuant to JV. A or B, above.  
In making this determination, the Impartial Umpire shall be  
governed by the formula and actuarial assumptions regarding  
assets, contributions, benefits and expenses as set forth in III,  
above and shail have no authority to modify or amend such  
formula and assumptions.  
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph IV, the  
provisions of Sections 20.6 {as that section applies to  
Impartial Umpires involving more than one (1} office of the  
Company), 20.8, 20.9, 20.1) and 20.12 of the Master  
Agreement shall apply. Each party shall have the nght, at its  
own expense, to provide such expert testimony as it deems  
necessary. The parties agree to proceed expeditiously and to  
make good faith effort to conclude the arbitration on or  
before October 31, 2006. All time periods within this  
paragraph IV shall be deemed to be “of the essence” and  
mandatory and may not be extended by the Impartial Umpire  
but only by written agreement of the parties.  
349  
(4)  
(3)  
   
If any dispute arising under this paragraph !'V is not finally  
resolved as of November |, 2006 (including the resolution of  
court challenges, if any), the benefit accrual rate set forth in  
Sections 2.02 {a), 2.02 (b) and 2.09 (d} (ii) of the Plan solely  
with respect to Future Service earned between January 1, 2004  
and December 31, 2006 will remain on an interim basis  
unchanged from the benefit accrual rate established for Future  
Service on or after January |, 2004 by Sections 2, 3, and 4, of  
the Plan amendment referenced in paragraph II, above. Further,  
the Plan shall be amended to provide that such benefit accrual  
rate with respect to Future Service on and after January !, 2007,  
on an interim basis, shall be the lower of: (i) the benefit accrual  
rate as proposed by the Plan actuary’s wntten report in  
paragraph 111, G. above, or (ii} the lower of the benefit accrual  
rate proposed by either party in its objections or responses to  
objections provided in paragraph IV A or B, above; provided  
that the benefit accrual rate for Future Service after December  
31, 2006 shall not exceed 0.65%.  
The interim benefit accrual rates shall remain in effect until  
a Decision and Award of the Impartial Umpire has become  
final, including the resolution of court challenges, if any, to  
the Decision and Award, The benefit accrual rates in the  
Decision and Award shall supersede the interim benefit  
accrual rates, January |, 2004, provided, however,  
that, if it is finally determined as defined in the first  
sentence of this subparagraph (5) that the benefit accrual  
rates should be increased from the benefit accrual rates  
established for Future Service on or after January |, 2004 by  
Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Plan amendment referenced in  
paragraph [1, above, the increase shall be given retroactive  
cffect only with respect to service earned between January I,  
2004 and December 31, 2006 in accordance with the terms  
of the Plan and shall apply to only active participants in the  
Ptan who are active employees of the Company (or  
employees of the Company treated as though they are in  
active employment under Section 5.03(a) or (b) of the Plan)  
as of December 31, 2006. In the event of a Decision and  
Award providing for such an increase in the benefit accrual  
rates, the benefit accrual rates shall in any event snap back,  
with respect to Fucure Service earned on or after January 1,  
2007, to the benefit accrual rates established for Future  
350  
Sideletter GO Cont'd  
Service on or after January 1, 2004 by Sections 2, 3, and 4,  
of the Plan amendment referenced in paragraph II, above,  
E. Expeditious Cooperation of the Parties to Adjust Rates  
Where any changes in benefit accrual rates are provided for in this  
paragraph IV Dispute Resolution Procedure, including interim benefit  
accrual changes, the Parties shall amend the Plan forthwith to  
implement such changes without delay. Further, the parties shall  
forthwith take all] steps necessary to require their respective Trustees to  
implement such changes as promptly as legally permitted. The Trustees  
actions to implement such interim benefit accrual rate shall include,  
without limitation, the distribution of timely notice required under  
Section 204 (h) of ERISA.  
Sideletter GR  
Committee on 8.6(c) and A&.2{c)  
The parties agree to convene a committee consisting of three (3) Union  
representatives and three {3) Company representatives to meet periodically at each office  
of the Company to discuss the application of the phrase “extended or special news  
coverage” as provided in Section 8.6(c) and the meaning of “oppornunity to eat” and  
“breaking, extended or special news coverage” under Section A8.2(c). It is the intent of  
the parties to give reasonable interpretation to these changes agreed to in the negotiations  
for the successor to the 1997-2003 Master Agreement, which interpretations may vary  
among the various offices. It is further agreed that reasonableness will depend upon all  
the facts and circumstances of a given situation and the reasonable business needs of  
each operation. [t is understood that at the Washington News Bureau “breaking, extended  
or special news coverage” shall not be deemed to include routine stand-by or drills.  
Sideletter GS  
Section 529 College Savings Plan  
In the context of reaching a final agreement in our 2003-2007 ABC-NABET-  
CWA Master Agreement negotiations, staff and Daily Hire employees may contribute to  
one of three Section 529 College Savings Plans through payroll deductions, consistent  
with Sideletter EF, V(4).  
(See Sideletter EF)  
351  
sideletter GT  
1997-2003 Master Agreement Terms  
l. For the following enumerated provisions, the applicable provisions of the 199?-  
2003 NABET Master Agreement were effective during the period specified:  
Provision Effective  
Gieneral Articles:  
10.1 April 1, 2003 — September 26, 2003  
19.1 April |, 2003 — December 24, 2003  
R. Publicists Agreement — New York:  
R10.} April 1, 2003 — December 24, 2003  
Sideletter:  
EN II Apni] !, 2003 — September 26, 2005  
EN III April 1, 2003 - December 24, 2003  
Wage Rates April 1, 2003 - August 8, 2003  
The minimum weekly, hourly or daily wage scales for each unit and  
classification, applicable for the period 1, 2003-August 8, 2003 are the rates that  
were in effect as of March 31, 2003 from the 1997-2003 Master Agreement. The  
additional payments for retroactivity pursuant to the March 21, 2003 Extension  
Agreement are specified in Section 30.1.  
Sideletier GU  
of Interpretation Article X11 Upgrading  
The deletion of references to “Article X11 - UPGRADING” and the upgrading  
charts for Television and Radio which were contained within the Siatement of  
Interpretation of the 1997-2003 NABET-CWA/ABC Master Agreement shall not in any  
way diminish or expand any rights enjoyed by either the Company or the Union  
352  
if such language and charts had not been deleted, and further, such deletion shall be  
deemed to have no substantive effect whatsoever with respect to the rights or positions of  
either party under the Master Agreement.  
353  
### INDEX  
### A  
ABC-NABET Retirement Plat OP, 249, 243, 334-51  
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance 290  
ACCOMMOGALIONS 15-16, 44, 46  
ence 11, 13, 16, 76, 88, 95, 96, 97, 228, 270-71  
AFTRA Rate Py 316217  
Ait Credits 18, 150, 176, 223  
Applicants — Referral 00 6  
PAT A OID sec 22-24, 38, 41, 51, 58-64  
Armed cnc  
Assignments, Change by 202  
### ASSIQZMMENES, EXCESSIVE 22-23, 266  
Assignments, issuance OF WOK 107  
Law ROU eee LOZ  
AVID Editors DOG  
+  
Bargaining a 1, 10, 35, 41, 98-101, 158, 171, 186  
| 9B, 200-01, 205, 211, 238, 267, 284  
Benefit, Changes...... Seder 69, 293- 95, 336, 342  
gc pr es craw tsar 293  
Breaking, Extended or Special News Coverage. 20, 113, 116, 159, 172, 275  
nnn i pond 1D S20, JD)  
### EEE  
BrittainfHering Award DOD  
Building Maintenance — Los Angeles 184, 290  
thea 311-12  
Cc  
Ca CM, seis tans 18  
aT scenes 200-02, 204, 255, 276  
Checking iin ee  
Chicago Agreements,  
Try Cheer: ss cases  
College Savings PHan 351  
“Combo” 246  
Committee, SOMO, 245  
Committee on 8.6(c) and A8. 20)...  
Committee, GAREY 65, 272-73  
354  
COMPULETS BO, 82-3, 95, 135, 213, 217, 269, 270  
278-80, 286-87, 305, 308, 321, 332  
Coordinator, 127-29, 133, 262-63, 274-76  
311, 325-28, 334  
Cueing 210  
### D  
Daily 94, 120, 131-32, 148-49, 161, 163  
pee hd oda 174-76, 182-83, 186-88  
Daily Hine — Bee Fit 285  
Daily Hire - Life 38, 66, 122-23, 132, 149, 162  
175, 183, 187, 293  
Daily Hire - Savings and Retirement Trust er 312-13  
Daily Hire - Travel Only Day 39, 123  
Daily Hire - Vacation Pay oo... s, §2-53, 56, 121, 123, 131, 146  
149, 155, 158-59, 162, 168, 171-72  
... 175, 183, 187, 192, 218, 241, 258, 322  
Day Off - Out of Town. 143, 155, 168  
Day OFF — se EE 50-51, 210  
Dore) Pill Ee 38, 76  
Dependent Care Spending Accounts Program ace  
Desk “135-38, 147, 160, 173, 266-67  
213, 322  
Digital a 281-83  
Direct Deposit A EHS 328  
aes pe ee aes pe 39-40  
2  
DK of CX 34, 319  
Dues Deduction su  
2... ten 9-10, 17, 36, 45-46, 99, 111, 115  
er SPIRES 127-29, 135-37, 140-42, 145-47  
159-60, 165-67, 172-73  
a 178-79, 185, 194-95, 199-02, 205-09  
by 213-14, 222, 228, 230-31  
ans vd 238, 242, 248, 258-59, 262  
### E  
ccs cnr 267  
Effect of “A” Unit Rate Compression a  
ELAP 239-44  
Blectromic 79, 81-82, 103, 124, 269  
Electronic Newsroom (Sideletter CX) 268-70  
Employee, Regular 2, 26, 30-33, 37, 42, 68-69  
Jud 73,103, 118, 133-34, 136-37, 196  
Zl, 215, 279, 221, 261, 300, 302  
355  
   
+  
bah NRA aR RR 306, 323, 33!  
Employee, Temporary 7, 31, 201, 241  
Employee, Vacation Relief.................4-5, 7, Jl, 53, 54, 190, 193, 218-21, 256, 262, 311  
Employment  
Gremerall |  
Company-wide Opportunities, Engineering 118, 134  
Entertainment Industry Flex Plan....... rato ee a NRE REN RN 313  
Equipment, Excessive in Weight 117, 139  
### EXCESSIVE ses 22  
Exclusive AssignmenttS 14}  
Expense Allowance, Mealls 14  
Extended Leave of Absence Program 239-44  
Extended Vacation Relief (Stipulation 19) PEL  
### F  
Family and Medical Leave Act 319  
Fees  
News — San 143-44, 146-47  
eee — ear 156, 158, 160  
= Le Ft occas 168-69, 171, 173  
OM VACATION | 15, 146, 147, 155, 159-60, 168  
172, 174, 184, 258  
Field pea ce res tag ane dels OD)  
Flex Phan, 401 (i) Pham... ccc sense 313-14  
Four-Day Workweek tre 284-85  
Freehand Display Devices  
### G  
Gather News or Transmit News Material cone 95, 281  
Gardeners/Painters — Los Ampeles 178-81, 184, 289-90  
OT nie ll  
General aL 2, 198, 241, 243, 261, 268, 278  
292-93, 299, 306, 315, 321, 323  
BEB nnn sree an eae neon csc eens 326-27, 352  
Grievances 1, 58, 61-63, 72, 245, 262, 272  
tes ey Boa, B49  
Grievance rene  
Grievance Committes 3, 59, 60, 245  
A sx exons 59, 60-62, 245, 272  
Grievance Withdrawal 62-63, 332  
### H  
Hand-held Cameras 20, 84-85, 88, 94, 103, 115, 125, 163, 176, 296  
Health Care and Dependant Care Spending Account Plans.............. 68, 293  
356  
### LOS  
Holidays — General 2p 49, 54, 189, 196, 204  
— Pay 31, 56, 192, 209-10, 241  
Holidays — Payback Days 209°10, 24]  
Home OFFICE see 123  
Host Broadcaster Sideletter (Sideletter DA)............ a pe 271  
| ne bd, 44, 46, 89, 123  
—  
Hours General RR ee  
Impartial UMPiIre 306, 319, 325, 329-30, 349-50  
Individual 152-54, 165-67, 314-15, 320  
TALE L 331  
OO, 315, 320  
Insurance  
Accidental Death and dy 233  
CaP casas: 48  
Doe Ei Ogee  
Employees Covered................... ER  
  
### CCIE AE  
Notice of Oe  
Retirees OF, 294, 309  
Issuance Of Work LOA, 184  
### J  
  
Job Openings 33  
* .  
Joint Study Committee wR EPI Te  
Jury sexes sens a Oe 215-16, 225  
### K  
### KABC-TY, New  
### KGO-TY LF  
KGO-TV/KGO-Radio Conditions Qo  
### L  
dO, 90-91, 133, 196, 216, 274, 291  
Dm SN ccs ences etm opm eee eer eens .. 182, 184  
Leave of Absence  
BB ve 33  
Civic or Educational dO  
  
ee eee RE hey Ha RAF Shed EPA DEE SE ERNE EE PT 36  
357  
LC sci ni a7  
CG a8 eens enn es 38  
Participation in Company 38  
### UNION ACHVITY  
cs  
Licenses and serene  
Life Insurance Plan core 66, 122, 132, 149, 162, 175, 183  
85-97, 106-07, 215, 234-35, 196  
Local Qi icers Assi 5  
Local Quarterly Meeting PA  
### LOD  
Long Term Disability Income 293  
LOT ccc press LO, LOT  
Los Angeles and San Francisco 8. 10(c) ... ed  
### M  
Oy 290, Sea, DOS  
Management — Engimeering DOP  
Management — tes 140, 1$2, 165  
Master Agreement Terms, 1997-2003 .......... 69, 77, 105, 127, 143, 148, 168, 174, 250-53 ©  
de, SOF, 318-19, 322, 329-30, 333, 336-37  
Materials, Use of  
News — Chicago 164  
News — PPP  
AICI cs ede di  
Meal Expense ld, LE2-46, 121, 164, 188, 196-97  
One Phe 21a aly 2 20, 2  
Meal dl 2, 24, 36, 44-45  
112-16  
Engineering — News Field Assignments........... |  
A sop en TN LE ECE ere  
Last Hour Lunches — New IO  
News —  
Medical OF Bene litS icc 38, 67-68, 294  
Meetings  
GEVANCE 245, 272  
Local Quarterly Meetings RE  
Semi-arinual Meetings 272  
scan | oy Ses 102, 246, 279, Poe, 290  
Microphone and Other Audio Devices  
Microwave Receive Site Maintenance DB  
  
Motion Picture 95, 101  
Mount Wilson VDF  
358  
### N  
NABET-CWA 401(k) Plan - (Daity LO  
### NABET-CWA Laty  
Network Distribution Operation senses 327  
Wee They ss dO  
New Hire, Referral to sO  
New Technical Equipment LOO, 329  
New Technology and Consolidation Dee  
News Acquisition 325  
News Assignment 313  
News Assignments, Undercover  
News Gathering  
News Bureaus  
NewS [S60 oe  
Tape  
NewsOne (Sideletter CZ).......  
News Produced saree Rhy et  
New York “Library” Agreement ee  
Night Shift Differential.............. 207, 300  
ACES re ens eee re eer  
Non-Covered Businesses... ae  
Non-Union Recordings................ LA  
No Strikes or Lockout  
Notice, Union Dues  
0  
Unit Daily Hires dM  
Office, HOME cee sees MO, 123  
Office Cassettes 101  
Offices of the  
Uy  
One person crew EOS  
Opportunity To Eat LIB, 115, 341  
Out Of Towns Travel 143, 155, 168  
Outside Crews and Facilities Rental OOS  
Outside Post-Production — Los Angeles  
Outside-Produced lt, 96, 271, 276, 298  
Outside  
Overseas Dy 150, 163, 176  
OVEFTIIME ere andi Lot  
Overtime and Penalties  
Overtime Cancellation eed dD  
339  
   
### P  
PP? LEE 323  
Painters/Gardeners — Los Angeles  
dy 20%, 321-23  
Bay 8 3b, 50, 225, 241  
Payroll Deduction ....................- tos 351  
Payroll Deduction Of Dues cones OOO  
Pay: Pers kT  
CU 17  
Per Diem (Travel) LA  
Personal Services ASTEEMERNE LG  
LANE eee  
FI ce ees RNIN  
Poindexter Awatd 284  
Pood Assi Lighting 86, 320  
Pool PiCkupS ARE by OO  
### NO  
Pre-Calll  
Preamble oS, 318  
Presence of Employce Not Required. HNN ren on SE 16, 98, 239  
Prior Discussion (New Technical Equipment).............+  
  
Process Control 217  
Produced 146, 159, 172, 259  
Production Control 321  
Program cai el 128, 228, 271  
Promo REVIEW 305  
Publicists, New York — Layali: 1 Ol  
Publicists, New York — Special Payment vena 29]  
### Q  
Radio Network or Syndicated Programs- KABC-AM, KLOS-FM, WABC-AM .........330  
Radius  
Television bh ly 88  
Tape  
Washington Origination Agreement sees  
Rate Compression Oe  
AN ss 2  
Recorded Material, Origin eo  
Regis Proms LO  
Reena WG esi LS  
Regular Workweek Fs sine  
25, 32  
Remote Cameras, Fixed  
Repair and/or Calibration of Equipment .....................-.  
Rest Periods snes Si es eee sale en 1ié  
Retiree Medical Berefits 0.0.0... by SOF  
Retirement Program, Company Contributions OD  
Retirement Program, Notice to Covered ee  
Revision of Contract Provisions .. en  
Rotating Watch, New York TV Master a tases 210, 327  
### S  
Safety Comittee  
Sale, Merger or Consolidation LA  
San Francisco  
Satellite or Microwave Transmission roe  
Satellite Trucks, Meal Scheduling. 317  
Schedule  
### CWS a  
General DE  
Publicists, New York LBB  
Posting, by 2  
Scnpts and Program 164, 197  
Section A2.2(¢)9 Network and Local Station  
Section 529 College Savings Plan I  
Segment and Specialty News Producers — Chicago and Los “sein 24  
Segment and Specialty News Producers — San  
Seniority  
Gemeral  
Traffic and ISS  
Plant Maintenance, Los Angeles 184  
Publicists, New YOrk | BD  
### TE  
yy  
Total a ee  
| SL  
Severance Pay  
### GSA TIES sors  
ui 42, 216, 226  
Special Severance D2  
Separate Periods Of Service 7  
  
Shop Steward 2, 286  
Short Term Disability «FA, 319  
Sick and Disability Leave d LD  
Sick Leave Policy BO  
361  
   
Sideletter GD Wage Rates .......... 9  
Sipmature dO, 208, 221  
SNG Assignment — Scheduling Meals Fass UT  
Sound Effects — Chicago and Los Angeles LOB  
Special Severance  
Spending Plan... 293  
Sports  
Statement of interpretation Article Xu dod  
### Steward/Officers List................ SCSI eas  
Stewards/Officers ~ WABC-TY  
Stipulation Of nl OP  
Stipulations and Sideletters  
VD eee tO  
Strip Shows, Affiliate Origination 1B  
### SELON  
Supervisory Duties — Unit “Fees AS  
### SUSPCNSIONS ly 22D  
Sit nae ere ETE ee ESTEE 328  
### T  
Talent 298  
TatenvTelephone Coordinators ~ New York ae 198  
Technical LOO, 235  
Technical Director - New York Upgrades... Oo  
Technical Director — Upgrades on Vacation D2  
Technical Director — Working Rules 210, 235  
Technical DO  
Technical Equipment, LOD  
Technical Equipiment, New Oy 100  
Technical Equipment, seen  
Technical Lighting .......... scan CANE Wve NCW Nene 85, 107  
Technician A (SFP) renee OG  
Technician B ee 304  
renee tenis 2 OU  
Telephone... 6, 12, 14, 21-22, 97, 119, 135, 147  
3, 160, 166, 173, 194, 258-59, 279  
Telephone Call — Past Midnight ... cern rye  
Temporary Employee 7, 30-31, 137, 201, 203, 241, 261  
sive 26, 294, 331  
Temporary tern 36  
Term of Agreement..,........,........ ans FE  
Third Party Producer IAL, 215  
Timekeeping 292  
### Tours, COMINUOUS EO  
362  
   
Tours — Local President and Vice President  
### WOME, LOS 18  
Traffic and Communications Vacation Dod  
Traffic Coordinator LOD  
205, 306  
Training Rate dol  
Transfer Of Work LG  
THaMSfers I, 34  
Transfers, Interoffice 1, 34  
Transfer, Transmitter to Studie........... set dy 11 |  
Transimitter DOU  
### BA Od  
Transmitter Maintenance, By Supervisors Qe  
Transmitter, Manning OF LO  
Transmitter, Site, Subcontracting. eee cece DOG  
TALS TT ance ce eee i AER LA)  
7 LF  
Transportation for Employees tad, 139, 191  
Travel, General 190, 220  
orcs dines Oem LES  
Tuition #0  
### EPG  
### U  
Witty OA ed  
Upgrading  
pa eens ewe  
New York Technical DINGCINS Ue  
Ree  
Vv  
. .  
Vacancies, Notice of ems eee eee eee ere eee ree SOE whee PRETEEN SEA EPA ESE PT EE EEE NSN ETE ETE 4  
.  
Vacations  
’  
Outside Penod.,....,... Stare er  
  
Period ®t  
r  
### Period Posting REEF EEE EAE AEA ARR EE REE D4  
Recall EERE AEA A RA TT Tee ren Pd  
-  
Relief Employee eee eres by 54  
Return Date  
-  
Single Days  
  
  
.  
Unpaid Leave...... Rha Raed ed RA BAe ee SR AR A Rea IG  
.  
Year-round (Section 19, CO) eee ee RAST EPR PET PT peered  
Vendor Employees SRR RR TT TEP PET PRET EPS ET PET PRES PERE PTE eee teed wee ew ete pI ed 1-296  
363  
   
Video Tape 16, 84, 89, 94-97, 101, 105, 126  
cee ns  
Dd P  
cor nines er ND  
Voluntary Separation Program ............... 311-12  
### WwW  
WABC-TV Two Person ENG Crew Rate oe  
Wage Scales and Groups 103, 130, 136, 143, 155  
abies «soe 168, 180, 585, 195, 205  
Warranty UA FO. [Oe  
Un Pray ene  
Washington Engineering Agreement  
Weekly Schedules 202, 210  
Weight, Equipment, Excessive ........... 117, 139  
screenees ge eee 318  
Work Schedule  
General PTR ere POT PEER ET ee HE AE te TR EAE HES ta 17  
### Changes. EE RAE ER ENE ERAS ET BARA EE Rae ep ASE 1  
Overtime and 2, 188, 195, 202  
Unreasonable Workload 23  
Whitten Stipulations Ae REA SR RAPA PSST ROT PTR TT ETT BL  
### X¥Z  
364