Cornell University  
ILR School  
   
BLS Contract Collection — Metadata Header  
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School,  
Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.  
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the  
digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent  
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.  
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see  
http://digitalcommons. ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/  
Or contact us:  
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853  
607-254-5370 _ ilrref@cornell.edu  
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -  
http://digitalcommons. ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/2/)  
Title: Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Office and Clerical Employees) and  
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO Local 1245  
(2003)  
K#: 6072  
Employer Name: Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Office and Clerical  
Employees)  
Location: CA  
Union: International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO  
Local: 1245  
SIC: 4911 NAICS: 221122  
Sector: P Number of Workers: 2700  
Effective Date: 06/01/03 Expiration Date: 12/31/07  
Number of Pages: 146 Other Years Available: Y  
   
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of  
the Catherwood website - http://www. ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/  
For additional information on the ILR School, http:/Awww. ilr.cornell.edu/  
(1/0 4  
re erg  
Agreement  
Between  
PACIFIC GAS AND Pacific Gas and  
ELECTRIC COMPANY | Electric Company~  
   
and  
### LOCAL UNION NUMBER 1245  
### OF  
### INTERNATIONAL  
### BROTHERHOOD  
### OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS  
   
Affiliated with  
### AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR —  
### CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS Uy OP  
### APPLYING TO:  
### OFFICE AND CLERICAL EMPLOYEES  
### EFFECTIVE JUNE  
wi Pacific Gas and  
Electric Company”  
September 24, 2001  
7? Beale Sueet  
PG. Box 770000  
San Franersco, CA 9417?  
415.973.7000  
### PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY EMPLOYEES:  
Pacific Gas & Electric Company and IBEW Local 1245 have a 50-year history of labor-management  
cooperation to address areas of mutual interest. This letter reaffirms our ongoing commitment to labor-  
management cooperation in a traditional industrial relations framework.  
While we recognize that both parties have different needs, we are committed to an ongoing alliance to  
address shared interests. Our alliance includes:  
=> Quarterly meetings between the Union's leadership and the Company's officers to  
discuss current business issues and the Company's strategic business pian.  
hohe os ote vee Quarterly labor-management meetings in in.each functional department or area to  
address department/area specific issues  
= . Ad hoc negotiations to discuss current business needs in a timely manner.  
“  
. oe  
Pacific Gas & Electric Company and IBEW Local 1245 are committed to work together in a collaborative  
manner to address issues critical to PG&E’s abitity to compete now and in the future, and to promote  
_ profitability for PG&E, and employment and income security. for PG&E employees. It is in our mutual. best  
-.the Company's, the Union's, and,the employees’ - to ensure PG&E's success.  
   
fee Gov  
Se,  
### AGREEMENT  
### APPLYING TO:  
### “OFFICE AND CLERICAL EMPLOYEES  
between - .  
4  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY  
'  
and  
2 ww wt  
### INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD l14 Po  
### » OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS  
Affiliated with  
### AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR  
### CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS,  
:  
wert y  
‘  
EFFECTIVE JUNE 1, 2003 - 12-1 31/  
  
as  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### TITLE  
oo ws oO S&F Hw =  
See tee 2 Sa  
of WH fF —-— mo th & WH WH &  
TO nm DOW >  
  
### , RECOGNITION...  
### CONTINUITY OF SERVICE  
### UNION SECURITY  
  
### . LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
### | SICK  
### . VACATIONS...  
### . GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...  
### HOURS OF WORK  
### | PREMIUM PAY  
©  
### | WAGES  
### | HOLIDAYS  
### | EXPENSES  
### | MEALS.  
.  
### . JOB BIDDING, PROMOTION AND TRANSFER...  
### DEMOTION AND LAYOFF PROCEDURE  
### . SAFETY...  
### . LABOR-MANAGEMENT 1 COOPERATION...  
### . INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS...  
### _ SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS FOR INDUSTRIAL INJURY ...  
### _ MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY AND MISCELLANEOUS  
  
### EXHIBITS  
### . LINES OF ce  
. Educational Assistance  
. (Deleted 1-1-00}  
. Letter Agreement 87-165-PGE Productivity Enhance Committee  
. Schedule of Wage Fates  
. Classification of Employees Subject to Provisions of Section  
. Utilization of Intermittent  
### PAGE  
o VN & & WO —+ —  
### PF FPS SA  
### oN MH Oo OH WN G&S CO OW  
  
98  
... 100  
102  
117  
117  
. Addendum to Title 19. Demotion and Layoff Procedure  
. Letter Agreement 91-99 Appointment Due to Urgent Necessity..........  
  
### SUPPLEMENTS  
Supplement to Section 1.7..  
Supplement to Title 16 - Meals: Comparable § Substitute for Usual and Average Meais......  
Supplement to Title 18 - Bidding Units.......  
Supplement to Title 19 - Demotion Units  
117  
vee  
119  
124  
125  
12  
cerere 129  
September 1, 1953  
September 1, 1954  
January 1, 1955  
July 1, 1956  
October 1, 1956  
January 1, 1957  
July 1, 1957  
January 1, 1958  
July 1, 1958  
duly 1, 1959  
July 1, 1960  
July 1, 1961  
July 1, 1962  
July 1, 1963  
January 1, 1964  
July 1, 1964  
July 1, 1965  
July 1, 1966  
July 4, 1967  
September 24, 1967  
January 1, 1968  
This Agreement dated July 1, 1953 has been amended on the following dates:  
July 1, 1968  
July 1, 1969  
July 1, 1970  
January 1, 1971  
July 1, 1977  
July 1, 1972  
April 1, 1973  
January 1, 1974  
July 1, 1974  
January 1, 1975  
January 1, 1977  
January 1, 1978  
December 1, 1978  
January 1, 1980  
January 1, 1983  
January 1, 1984  
January 1, 1988  
January 1, 1991  
January 1, 1994  
January 1, 1997  
January 1, 2000  
June 1, 2003  
April 14, 2003  
Local Union No. 1245  
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
P.O. Box 4790  
Walnut Creek, CA 94596  
Attention: Mr. Perry Zimmerman, Business Manager  
Dear Mr. Zimmerman:  
This letter and its attachments will confirm the Company's understanding of the settlement reached on March 28,  
2003 between the Company's Negotiating Committee and the Union’s Negotiating Committee in General  
Negotiations with respect to the IBEW Agreements between Company and IBEW Local 1245. This settlement  
agreement is subject to a ratification vote by Local 1245 bargaining unit members at PG&E.  
1. Term  
Five years, June 1, 2003 through December 31, 2007. Includes a commitment to bargain in good faith over  
separate Newco agreements.  
2. Wages  
The Company will grant a general wage increase, rounded up to the nearest nickel, of four percent (4.0%),  
effective June 1, 2003, four percent (4.0%), effective January 1, 2004 and four percent (4.0%), effective  
January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 500.1 (25.1), either party may re-open this  
Agreement with respect to the subject of wages by giving notice of such re-opening to the other party 60 days  
prior to January 1, 2006 and January 1, 2007. A lump sum payment of $900 will be paid to active employees  
who were on the payroll as of January 1, 2003.  
3. Stockton Credit and Records Center  
Company and Union agree to execute a letter agreement to extend the provisions of Letter Agreement 01-45,  
which established a temporary second shift at the Credit & Records Center, upon ratification of the  
bargaining settlement. The extension of the letter agreement will be through the term of the Agreement.  
Company and Union agree to execute Letter Agreement 02-42-PGE upon ratification of the Agreement ta be  
in effect through the term of the Agreement. Modifications will include: for overtime, vacation, floating  
holidays, and Title 18, Credit and Records will be considered separate headquarters; for Title 19 purposes,  
Credit and Records will be considered as the same headquarters. The letter agreement may be canceled by  
either party upon 60 days written notice.  
4. General Construction  
During discussion of Union's proposal to modify the provisions of Subsection 305.4(d}, the parties addressed  
Union’s concern that the temporary upgrade report is not being posted for employee review in many locations.  
Company committed to make a good iaith effort to ensure that the required list is made available to Title 300  
employees at all field locations.  
Title 300 classification wage rates wilt be adjusted to reflect the historical 5% dilferentia! from the comparable  
Title 200 classification during each year of the Agreement.  
It was agreed to modify/relocate the clarification of 301.4{a) also known as Exhibit XV to Section 301.21.  
5.  
Interim Negotiations  
B. Merge Title 200 and Title 300 Fleet  
Company and Union agree to revisit the previous recommendation to merge the Title 200 and Title 300 Fleet  
workforce made by the previous Fleet Subcommittee.  
### Cc. DCPP  
Company and Union agree to discuss establishing separate Radiation Protection Technician and Chemistry  
Technician classifications and associated training programs in Diablo Canyon.  
Company and Union agree to discuss establishment of a multi-skilled journeyman classification in the  
Mechanical, Electrical and l&C disciplines at Diablo Canyon.  
D,. System Operator Program  
Company and Union agree to the following concepts and will establish a System Operator Ad Hoc Committee  
to discuss and reach agreement on a journeyman re-certification program, an enhanced OIT program, lines of  
progression and bidding-displacement for Transmission, Distribution and Hydro Operators, an entry-level  
classification, filling of shifts, alternate work schedules, and wages. It is recommended that this Committee  
begin its work immediately upon ratification of the Agreement and conclude within six months, unless  
agreement is reached to extend the timeframe. Upon reaching agreement, an increase as agreed to by the  
Ad Hoc Committee will be granted to classifications identified by the Committes.  
E. Pre-screen Potential Candidates for Meter Reader Positions  
Company and Union agree in concept to a physical pre-assessment test for potential Meter Reader  
candidates. The Meter Reader Committee will ensure that the physical assessment test is validated. Upon  
successful validation, the physical assessment will be implemented and administered to any potential  
candidate for a Meter Reader position, including but not limited to new hires, transfers, and displaced  
employees.  
F. Premium Standardization  
Company and Union agree to establish a Premium Standardization Committee to simplify the administration of  
payroll rules to facilitate administration in the current environment and to successfully position for future  
system implementation. Also, included for discussion in this Subcommittee will be standardization of the shift  
premiums.  
General Construction:  
Promotion-Demation Geographic Areas  
Company and Union agree to form an Ad Hoc Committee for the purpose of examining the Promotion-  
Demotion geographic areas in Exhibit |] of the Physical Agreement and discuss possible updates and  
modifications to this Exhibit.  
Residence Definition  
Company and Union agree to meet within 90 days of ratification to bargain in good faith. |  
Update Job Descriptions and Lines of Progression  
Company and Union agree to establish a Subcommittee to review and update the Job Definitions and Lines of  
Progression.  
Rubber Glove Premium  
Company and Union agree to meet to discuss improvements in productivity and safety.  
### Gas T&D JDLOP  
Company and Union will conduct a review of the Title 200 Gas T&D Lines of Progression, Reverse Lines of  
Progression and Job Descriptions. The purpose of the review is to ensure that the Lines of Progression and  
the Reverse Lines of Progression as well as the Job Descriptions and compensation are appropriate and  
reflect the current work force and job duties.  
Clerical Job Definitions  
Company and Union will conduct a review of the Position Evaluation Questionnaire benchmark job duties to  
Clarify job definitions.  
Exhibit XVI  
Company and Union agree to review the administrafive process used to track work performed by outside  
contractors.  
### CDLA  
Company and Unian will meet to discuss the requirements of requiring a COLA.  
Meals  
Company and Union will meet to develop clarifications for various meals issues.  
Working Foreman/Lead Classifications  
This committee will review job expectations of lead positions, identify qualifications necessary for Jlead  
positions and identify a selection process to ensure that employees are qualified for Lead positions. The  
Committee will ensure that its recommendations are consistent with the language in Subsection of  
the Physical Agreement and Section 18.13 of the Clerical Agreement.  
Cost of Living  
Company and Union agree to meet and to explore alternatives to address high cost of living areas.  
Successor  
Company and Union agree that an employee with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of equivalent  
employment from an Affiliated Acquiring Entity at ihe employee's last regular headquarters or a headquarters  
that is within 45 road miles or 60 minutes automotive travel time from the employee’s current residence, or  
equal to the employee's last reguiar commute if the last regular commute exceeded these limits  
will be eligible for options under Titles 19/206/306 but will not be eligible for severance.  
Pension  
A 20% pension adjustment will be made for retirees who retired prior to 1/1/78. The parties agree to meet, in  
good faith, to re-open discussions regarding pension adjustments for 2006 and 2007.  
Effective 1/1/04, the pension formula will be increased to 1.5% of pay for the first 25 years of service and to  
1.6% of pay for years of service above 25.  
vi  
### ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES  
Pension Formula Benefit (effective 2004)  
Physical Journeyman Rate of Pay  
Example based on 32 years of Service:  
Basic Weekly Pay on 1/1/04 $1,283.60  
Pension Band 35  
25 years @ 1.5% of pay  
Monthly Benefit Per Year of Service x Credited Service (25 years) $83.85 x 25= $2,096.25  
7 years, @ 1.6% of pay  
Monthly Benefit Per Year of Service x Credited Service (7 years) $89.44 x7 = $ 626.08  
Total Monthly Pension Benefit’ $2,096.25 + $2,722.33  
Cierigal Service Rep, Rate of Pay  
Example based on 32 years of service:  
Basic Weekly Pay on 1/1/04 $1,079.90  
Pension Band 14  
25 years @ 1.5% of pay  
Monthly Benefit Per Year of Service x Credited Service (25 years) $70.20 x 25 = $1,755.00  
7 years @ 1.6% of pay  
Monthly Benefit Per Year of Service x Credited Service (7 years) $74.88 x 7 = $ 524.16  
Total Monthly Pension Benefit' $2,279.16  
Long-Term Disability  
For disabilities occurring on or after the date of ratification: No Social Security offset will be assumed until  
Social Security disability is actually granted. When Social Security is granted, family disability payments  
attributable to the employee will be included in the offset. To continue on LTD for more than two years, an  
employee must be deemed disabled by Social Security. Participants who have not received a final Social  
security Disability ruling within 24 months may receive a monthly extension of up to an additional 36 months of  
Long-Term Disability benefits.  
The time period for LTD eligibility will be reduced from-.six cumulative months from onset of disability to five  
consecutive months.  
Other changes include return to work language for current and future LTD recipients.  
' Monthly Pension Benefit is unreduced for early retirement or spouse/joint beneficiary and does not include any  
premiums. Monthly Pension Benefit will be different based on classification and rate of pay. Pension income is  
one source of retirement income. Other sources include Social Security, the Savings Fund Plan [401{k)], and  
personal savings.  
vil  
9.  
10.  
11.  
12.  
Retiree Medical  
Effective 1/1/04, a medical account balance of up to $7,500 will be established for current and future retirees.  
Retirees may use their account balance to pay 50% of their medical premium contribution. The account  
balance amounts will be prorated from 10 to 25 years of service.  
A ten-year minimum service requirement is established for eligibility for future retiree medical benefits. In  
addition, the Company's fixed contribution for future retirees will be prorated from 0 to 25 years of service for  
both over- and under-age 65 retirees.  
Effective 1/1/03, retirees who drop medical coverage through the Company will be allowed to re-enroll during  
future open enrollment periods.  
Medical (Effective 1/1/04 unless otherwise noted)  
« Replaces current POS, PPO and OOA plans with new PPO and OOA plans.  
o Includes changes to copayments and coinsurances.  
oa Changes in network deductibles will be effective 1/1/05.  
e Increases HMO copayments.  
e increases allowed EAP visits from three to six visits.  
* Establishes Kaiser in-patient drug and aicohol rehabilitation benefits (effective upon ratification).  
e¢ Establishes a mandatory generic drug provision for prescription drug coverage.  
*  Estabiishes cost sharing of 3.75% of medical plan premiums.  
401(k)  
Members in the Savings Fund Plan (administered by CitiStreet) will be switched to the Retirement Savings  
Plan {administered by Fidelity Investments) as soon as possible. Concurrent with the plan and administrator  
change, employees will be eligible to start to the pian upon hire date, to contribute up to 20% of  
covered pay to the plan, and to receive the maximum employer matching contribution after only three years of  
service.  
Attachments  
Attached are amended contract sections as agreed to during the negotiations, as follows:  
A. Physical Agreement and its Exhibits, Supplements and Clarifications  
B. Clerical Agreement and its Exhibits, Supplements and Clarifications  
C. Medical, Dental and Vision Agreement  
D. Benefit Agreement  
lf any of the above or the attachments thereto are not in accordance with your understanding of our settlement,  
please let me know immediately.  
Sincerely,  
Stephen A. Rayburn  
Stephen A. Rayburn  
Director and Chief Negotiator  
Attachments  
vill  
   
   
     
    
(ss  
a  
  
  
x, A  
CU ey  
### SOS  
  
### A Pere LETTER AGREEMENT  
te a NO. 03-26-PGE IBEW  
   
   
### WE DELIVER ENERGY™  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF  
### INGUSTRIAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO  
### 2850 SHADELANDS DRIVE, SUITE 160 LOCAL UNION 1245, 1.B,E.W,  
### WALNUT CREEK, CALIFORNIA 94598 P,Q. BOX 2547  
{925} 974-4104 VACAVILLE, CALIFORNIA 95696  
(707} 452-2700  
### STEPHEN A. RAYBURN, PERRY ZIMMERMAN,  
### DIRECTOR AND CHIEF NEGOTIATOR BUSINESS MANAGER  
September 4, 2003  
Local Union No. 1245  
intemational Brotherhood of  
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
P.O. Box 2547  
Vacaville, CA 95696  
Attention: Mr, Perry Zimmerman, Business Manager  
  
On August 25, 2003, the parties concluded general negotiations, with the assistance of a Federal Mediator, for the  
Physical Agreement. Both parties made changes to their respective positions to reach agreement on this table  
settlement.  
One of the changes contained in the Physical table settlement is to grant a one-time payment equal to the amount  
employees would have received if the general wage increase had been implemented on January 1, 2003. The one-  
time payment applies ta employees on the active payroll on the date of ratification of the Physical Agreement. This  
one-time payment will apply to straight-time, overtime and 401(k) and wil be made as soon as practical on a regular  
- paycheck. The 401(k) deduction and Company match will be based on the employee’s 401(k) contribution election  
as of August 31, 2003.  
The Company proposes upon ratification of the Physical Agreement, that the one-time payment cited above  
also apply to Clerical Bargaining Unit employees taking into cansideration the $900 Jump sum payment that has  
already been made. The 401(k) deduction and Company match will be based on the employee’s 401(k)  
contribution election as of May 31, 2003. The retroactive amount will be calculated for each clerical employee.  
If the retroactive amount comes out to more than $900, the employee will receive the difference. !f the amount  
comes out less than $900, no deduction wil! be made and the employee will not receive any additional pay.  
The inclusion of 401(k) deductions to be made from the pay is contingent upon approval by the  
Employee Benefits Committee.  
lf you are in accard with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return  
one executed copy of this letter to the Company.  
Yours very truly,  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY  
By: s/Stephen A. Rayburn  
Stephen A. Raybum  
Director and Chief Negotiator  
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD  
### OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO  
September 4 , 2003 By: s/Perry Zimmenman  
Perry Zimmerman  
Business Manager  
Ix  
### AGREEMENT  
This Agreement made and entered into this first day of July, 1953, by and between Pacific Gas and Electric  
Company, hereinafter referred to as Company, and Local Union No, 1245 of (nternational Brotherhood of Electrical  
workers, (affiiated with the American Federation of Labor-Congress of industrial Organizations), hereinafter referred  
0 as Union,  
### WITNESSETH that:  
WHEREAS the parties hereto desire to facilitate the peaceful adjustment of differences that may from time to  
time arise between them, to promote harmony and efficiency to the end that Company, Union and the general public  
may benefit therefrom, and to establish wages, hours and working conditions for certain hereinafier designated  
employees of Company,  
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto do agree as follows:  
### TITLE 1. PREAMBLE  
### 1.1 PRINCIPLES .  
The parties recognize that the free private enterprise system in the United States has produced the highest  
standard of living i ar in the world, and they hereby confirm their adherence to, and belief in, that system. In  
accordance with such belief the parties support the principle of private ownership of public utilities under enlightened  
reguiation by public authority. Further, the parties support the principles of collective bargaining and seif-organization.  
### 1.2 NON-DISCRIMINATION  
It is the policy of Compan and Union not to discriminate, harass or allow the harassment of an employee or  
é  
ree for employment on sis of race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, ancesiry, ph ‘sical or mental  
isability, medical condition, veteran status, Marital status, Pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, or a request  
for family medical leave, or any other non-job related factor. (Amende  
d 61-03)  
### 1.3 SECTION TITLES |  
Section Titles in this Agreement are for identification Only and are not to be used for the purpose of  
interpreting either the intent or the meaning of the language of any Section. (Added 1-1-80)}  
### 1.4 NEUTRAL GENDER  
Any changes to contract language made as a result of the ratification of the Physical and Clerical  
Agreements effective on 1-1-88 and not changed in the contract language effective 1-1-88 were changed in the  
contract language effective 1-1-91. Changes made to the contract sections, effective 1-1-91 are not intended to  
change the context of the language other than to neutralize the gender. (Added 1-1-91)  
### 1.5 DIVISION  
In acknowledgement of a review by Company and Union of those areas of the contract-where the word  
"Division" is stil present, "Division" will ba considered to represent an area designated as a "Division" by the  
Company, with Union reserving its right to have the geographic boundary remain intact, utilizing the Supplement to  
Title 19. (Added 1-1-91)  
1.6 All language printed in italics indicates new language frorn previous printing of the contract. (Added 1-1-91)  
### 1.7 REGION  
The use of the word “Region” or “Regional” as used in the contract shall represent the geographical area thal  
was in effect in 1992. See Supplement to Section 1.7.  
### TITLE 2. RECOGNITION  
### 2.1 RECOGNITION  
For the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of oT and other  
conditions of employment, Company recognizes Union as the exclusive representative of all office and clerical  
em including Credit Representatives, in Company's geographical Divisions and Regions and Departments,  
as follows;  
Materials Distribution (except General Office)  
Computer Operations  
Design- Drafting  
Construction Accounting (VP Controllers) |  
Accounting Go Me ihe Accounting Research and Analysis Section) (VP Controllers)  
Customer Accounting (VP Measure Bill and Collect)  
Payment Accounting (VP Controllers  
Accounting Data Control Section (V ;  
Gas System Maintenance & Technical Services/Gas System Operations  
Mail Processing Center  
Reprographics Section (20-RC-14824) |  
Maintenance and and Garage of the Building and Land Services Department  
Gas Chart Office (32-RC-650) - Gas Measurement and Production.  
Engineering and Planning (20-RC - 17475) - Distribution  
(Amended 6-1-03)  
The foregoing applies to areas and Departments for whom the National Labor Relations Board has certified  
Union as such representative; exciuding Supervisors, confidential employees, and all other employees in Company's  
General Office. Whenever the word "Division" or “Region" is used hereinafter, it may be construed to apply to  
Departments herein above enumerated, provided the context makes such application reasonable. (Amended 1-1-94)  
### 2.2 APPLICABILITY  
_ The provisions of this Agreement shall be limited in their application to ar bl ati of Company in the  
bargaining unit described in Section 2.1. Wherever the words “employee” and “employees" are used in this  
Agreement they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to the employees described in Section 2.1  
for whom Union ts the exclusive collective bargaining representative. The respective obligations af the parties herein  
shail be operative only insofar as Union acts in the capacity of colieclive bargaining representative of said  
empioyees.  
2.3. SUCCESSOR (Added 1-1-00)  
Any parent or affiliated company of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company that acquires any  
property or facility at which employees covered by this Agreement have regularly assigned jobs  
Acquiring Entity’) shall offer employment to ali such covered employees, up to thé number oF such employees that  
the Affiliated Acquiring Entity determines are ey to operate the property or facility, under the terms and  
conditions contained in this agreement except as to those specific benefits that the Affiliated Acquiring Entity  
cannot offer. For such benefits, the Affiliated Acquiring Entity shal! offer alternate benefits of comparable value  
and coverage.  
Any employee covered by this with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of  
equivalent employment from the Affiliated Acquiring Entity at the employee's current reguiar headquarters or a  
headquarters that is within 45 road miles or 60 minutes automotive travel time from the employee's current  
residence, of equal ta the employee's current regular commute if the employee's current reguilar_ commute  
exceeds these limits, shail not be eligible to participate in the severance program described in Exhibit XIV  
(Severance) of this Agreement. {Added 6-14-03)  
Any employee covered by this Agreement with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of  
employment by the Affiliated Acquiring Entity shail remain to panicipate in the Demotion and Layoff  
Procedure under Title 19 of this Agreement, (Added 6-1-03)  
(a) (2) In addition to the obligation to offer employment as required in (a) (1) above, an Affiliated  
Acquiring Entity shall adopt this agreement or alternate terms and conditions of employment mutually acceptable  
to the Affiliated Acquiring Entity and Union. |  
(b) (1) An entity not affiliated with Pacific Gas and Electric Company that acquires any property or facili  
at which employees covered by this Agreement have regularly assigned jobs (“Non-affiliated Acquiring Entit  
shall offer employment to covered employees, up to the number of such employees that the Non-affiliated  
Acquiring Entity determines are necessary fo operate the property or facility, at the terms and conditions contained  
in this Agreement; except as to those specific benefits that the Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity cannot offer. For  
such benefits, the Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity shall offer alternate benefits of comparable value and coverage.  
(b) (2) in addition to the obligation to offer employment as required in (b) (1) above, the Non-Affiliated  
Acquiring Entity shall maintain the same or camparable terms and conditions of employment applicable to covered  
employees hired by the Non-Affiliated Acquiring Entity for a period that is not less than the unexpired term of this  
Agreement that is in effect as of the date such employees are hired by the Non-Affiliated Acquiring Entity.  
{c) This section shail only apply to an acquiring entity to operate the property or facility in  
the same or substantially the same manner as the Pacific Gas and Etectric Company operates the property or  
facility immediately prior to its acquisition.  
-{d) The Pacific Gas and Electric Company shall include the obligations set forth in sections (a) or {b)  
above in any transfer or sale agreement, as provided in section (a) or (b) above, with an Sore entity of its  
property or facility. For any property or facility that is subject to Public Utilities Code section 363, the obligations  
set forth in sections (a) or ()} shali commence at the end of the applicable operating and maintenance period. The  
only claim the Union may have against Company under this section is for the failure to include in the  
transfer or sale agreement the obligation set forth in Section (a) or (b) above.  
### TITLE 3. CONTINUITY OF SERVICE  
3.1 Company is engaged in rendering public utility services to the public, and Union and Company recognize that  
there ts an obligation on each party for the continuous rendition and availability of such services.  
3.2 The duties performed by employees of Company as part of their employment pertain to and are essential to  
the operation of a public utility and the welfare of the public dependent thereon. During the term of this Agreement  
employees shall not partially or totally abstain from the performance of their duties for Company. Union shall not call  
Hal or authorize employees individually or collectively to engage in such activities and shall make a reasonable  
e “ip the circumstances to dissuade employees from engaging in such activities, and Company shall not cause  
any lockout.  
3.3 Employees who are members of Union shall loya) and efficient work and service, and shall use their  
influence and best efforts to protect the properties of Company and its service to the public, and shall cooperate in  
and advancing the welfare of Company and in preserving the continuity of its service to the public at ail  
Imes.  
3.4 Company and Union shall cooperate in promoting harmony and efficiency among Company employees.  
### TITLE 4. UNION SECURITY  
### 4.1 AGENCY SHOP  
(a) Thirty days after being employed, every employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of  
employment (1) become a member of the Union; or (2) in the alternative, an employee must tender a registration fee  
to the Union in such an amount as the Union may prescribe (but in no event to exceed the initiation fee required of  
Union members), and shall tender, monthly, an agency fee as established by the Union in an amount not to exceed  
Ae pallet monthly dues and per capita fees required of BA members in their base wage rates; except that  
mended 1-1-  
(b) Any employee of Company in a classification represented by Union and who, on December 1, 1970,  
was an employee and was not a member of the Union, and who remains an employee continuously after December  
1, 1970, is exempt from the provisions of Subsection 4.1({a} unless he or she becomes a member of Union.  
ey Any non-bargaining unit employee who is placed in a classification represented by Union shall, as a  
S80) of employment, within 30 days comply with the provisions of Subsection (a) above. (Section amended  
_ (d) Any bargaining unit employee who is temporarily placed in a non-bargaining unit classification shall  
pF subject to the provisions of Subsection (a) above, for the duration of such temporary assignment.  
e  
(e) Once each month, Company shall provide to Union a list of employees in bargaining unit  
classifications who did not tender dues or an agency fee to Union during the preceding 30 day period. (Added 1-1-91)  
### 4.2 PAYMENT OF UNION DUES  
Any employee who is or who becomes a member of Union shall, as a condition of employment, tender to the  
Union periodic dues uniformly required by Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.  
### 43 CHECKOFF OF DUES  
Company shalt deduct from wages and pay over to the proper Officers of Union the membership dues of any  
member of Union or agency fees of any other € as provided fot in Subsection 4.1(a) who individually and  
voluntarily authorizes such deductions in writing. The form of checkoff authorization shall be approved by Company  
and Union. (Amended 1-1-33}  
### 4.4 TERMINATION FOR NON-PAYMENT OF OUES  
Upon written request from the Union, the Company shail, within 21 calendar days, terminate the employment  
of any employee who fails to comply with the requirements of this Title.  
### 4.5 GRIEVANCES  
_ If any dispute arises under the provisions of this Title it shall be referred directly to the appropriate Local  
investigating Committee for determination under the grievance procedure provided for in this Agreement.  
3  
4.6 (Deleted 1-1-80)  
### TITLE 5. UNION ACTIVITY  
### §.1 BULLETIN BOARDS  
Union may use one-half of Company's reguiar bulletin boards and Company shall designate by letterin  
thereon or otherwise the portion of each builetin board which shall be reserved for use by Union. Company sha  
erect additional bulletin boards in any location where ft may be found that existing bulletin boards are not adequate.  
### 5.2 LIMITS ON USE OF BULLETIN BOARDS  
Union's use of bulletin boards shail be limited to the posting thereon of official notices of meetings and simitar  
matters relating to official Union business and its relationship with Company. Union shall not post thereon any matter  
derogatory to Company or to its customers.  
### §.3 NON-DISCRIMINATION  
_ Company shall not discriminate against any employee because of membership in Union or activity on behalf  
of Union. {Amended 1-1-91}  
### 5.4 REPRESENTATIVES OF UNION  
At Union's request Company shall authorize any representative of Union to enter any Company properties on  
which employees represented by Union are employed. Such authorization shalt be for the purpose of enabling such  
representative to transact Union business other than the solicitation of employees to join Union or the collection of  
dues, and it shal) not be used in any manner which will interfere with the work of any employee,  
### 5.5 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION  
Union shall not require or request an employee to divulge to it or its representatives any matter concerning  
Company's operations or interests which Company regards as confidential,  
### 5.6 NEW EMPLOYEE INFORMATION  
oo local Human Resources Representatives shalt, notify the designated local Shop Steward or  
Representative of Union, in writing, of the reporting for duty of new bargaining unit employees within thirty days. Upon  
said notification, the parties may schedule necessary paid time (nat to exceed one-half hour) and facilities for Union to  
provide orientation information regarding the a in and benefits of Union membership. In addition, Company  
will include a one-page document, as submitted by Union, in the customary new employee orientation information  
rah or discussion shall not include any matters derogatory to the Company and its customers.  
me  
### TITLE 6. LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
### 6.1 ELIGIBILITY  
"Leave of absence” without pay shail be granted to regular employees, under the conditions set forth in this  
Title for urgent or substantial personal reasons, provided that adequate arrangements can be made to take care of  
the employee's duties without undue interference with the normal routine of work. A "leave" will not be granted if the  
purpose for which it is requested may lead to the employee's resignation, For the purpose of this Agreement the  
erms “leave of absence” and signify absence without pay for periods in excess of ten consecutive workdays.  
in the computation of the length of a "leave of absence“ there shall not be included any time the employee is absent  
with pay. Absences without pay for ten consecutive workdays or less shall also be authorized under these provisions,  
In addition to the provisions of this Title, it is the intent of the parties to include leave benefits as mandated by  
State and Federal law, including both the Califomia Family Rights Act of 1991 and the Federal Family and Medical  
Leave Act of 1993. (Amended 1-1-94)  
### 6.2 PERIODS OF LEAVE  
{a}. The Company may ame a “leave of absence" without pay to a regular employee for a period not in  
excess of six consecutive months. ft may grant an additional "leave of absence” without pay to such employees if  
personal circumstances and service to the Company warrant the granting thereof. Except as provided in Sections 6.6  
and 6.8, a “leave of absence" will not be granted which, together with the last “leave” or "leaves" granted, will exceed  
twelve consecutive months. (Amended 1-1-91)  
(b) Child Care Leave: A reguiar em proyee who has become a parent by the birth or adoption of a child,  
or has become the legal guardian of a child shall be entitled to an unpaid "leave of absence” for a period not to  
exceed six consecutive months, without reference to urgent and substantial personal reasons to care for such  
newborn or adopted child. When an employee who was granted a leave for child care applies for reinstatement the  
4  
employee will be returned to the employee's former classification and headquarters which the employee vacated.  
(Amended 1-1-91)  
An employee shall be entitled to an additional "leave of absence" for a period not in excess of six  
consecutive months for child care with the understanding that the employee may retum to work provided a vacancy  
exists in the classification and headquarters which the employee vacated, or in a Classification lower thereto in the  
Line of Progression at such headquarters.  
lf a vacancy of this kind does not exist after the second six consecutive months, the service shall  
be considered terminated. (Added 1-1-84)  
### 6.3  COMMENCE AND END  
_ _A“leave” shail commence on and include the first workday on which the employee is absent without pay, and  
terminate with and include the workday preceding the day such rill get returns to work. The conditions under  
which an am shall be restored to on the termination of the empkyee's “leave of absence” shall be  
ciearly stated on the form on which application for the “leave” is made. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 6.4 STATUS  
An employee's status as a reqular employee shail not be impaired by a "leave of absence.”  
### 6.5 TERMINATION OF SERVICE  
If an employee fails to return immediately on the expiration of the employee's “leave of absence,” or if such  
employee accepts other employment while on “leave,” except as provided in Section 6.6, or makes application for-  
unemployment benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act while on "leave," such employee shall  
thereby forfeit the “leave of absence," and terminate Service with Company. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 6.6 | UNIONLEAVE OF ABSENCE  
Subject to the provisions of Section 6.1 Company shall at request of Union grant a “leave of absence" without  
pay to any employee for the purpose of in Union business. Such “leave" shall be for a period or periods not  
o exceed a total of 36 consecutive months. An employee who has retumed to work for Company following an  
absence on “leave” for Union business in excess of six months shall not be granted another such "leave" until Such  
employee has worked for a period equivalent to the time of the fast continuous absence on for Union  
business. (Amended 1-71-91)  
### 6.7 RETURN FROM UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
Uniess an employee who is on "leave of absence" for Union business notifies Company that he/she will  
return to work at the end of the first six months of such absence, such employee's job shall be considered as vacant,  
and Company may fill it as provided in Title 18. When such employee returns to employment after an absence in  
excess Of six months, such employee shall be employed in his/her former Bidding Unit or Department and former  
classification subject to the following:  
(a) Such employee may elect to displace another employee, or, if Company offers an assignment to a  
job vacancy on which another employee with longer Service does not have a prebid, the employee may elect to  
accept it.  
{b) ff such employee accepts such assignment, the location of such job shall thereupon become the  
tegular headquarters. {f there is no vacancy to which the employee can be assigned or elects not to accept an  
assignment to an existing job vacancy, placement in the Company shall be governed by Title 19.  
(c) if the employee elects to displace another employee, he/she shall displace that empi in his/her  
former Bidding Unit or Department and classttication who entered such classification during the period o the “leave of  
absence“ and who has the jeast Service. if such displacement cannot be efiected, the employee shall displace that  
employee in such Bracing Unit or Department and classification who has the least Service, except that the employee  
may not displace an employee whose Service is equal to or exceeds his/her own. If the last mentioned displacement  
cannot be effected, placement in the Company shall be governed by Title 19, and the job headquarters shall be the  
same as it was when the “leave of absence" was granted.  
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-91)  
### 6.8 MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
An employee who leaves employment with Company to enter the military service or other service where  
reemployment nignts are protected by law will be granted a “leave of absence” under the provisions of Sections 6.1 to  
6.5, inclusive. Upon qualifying for reemployment under any such law, and betng reemployed the employee will be  
granted a further “leave of absence” to cover the balance of the absence. (Amended 1-1-91)}  
   
### 6.9 FUNERAL LEAVE  
lf at all possible, a reguiar employee will be granted the actual time off with pay necessary to attend  
the funeral of a member of the immediate family, including the time the body may lie in state and the day of the  
funeral, and the time necessary to travel to and from the location of the funeral, but not to exceed three workdays.  
Unused vacation or floating holidays may be granted to extend an employee's funeral leave beyond the three days  
rovided for above or personal time off without pay for the time needed will be granted. The immediate family shall  
e limited to: an employee’s spouse, parent, grandparent, grandparent-in-law, parent-in-law, child, grandchild,  
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepchild, brothers, sisters, haif-brothers and half-sisters, foster parents, step-parents,  
aunts, uncles, or an individual who was a member of the employee's immediate household at the time of death.  
{Amended 1-1-91)  
(b) Consisient with the Companys operational needs, a reguiar employee may be granted the time off  
with pay necessary to attend the funerals of oiher persons the employee may be reasonably deemed to owe respect,  
but not lo exceed one day.  
rh Employees who have noi attained réguiar status will be allowed time off withoul pay as provided jor  
in (a) and (b) above.  
### 6.10 JURY DUTY  
Employees who aré summoned to serve on a grand jury, trial jury, or a jury of inquest will be granted the  
necessary time off for this purpose under the following conditions:  
{a Reguiar employees will be allowed the necessary lime off with pay for Jury duty which occurs within  
their scheduled working hours during the basic workweek. Such employees assigned to a third shift shall be  
rescheduled to a first shift during such a period of time ai the straight rate of pay, and such employees assigned to a  
second shift who are required to report to the jury commissioner on a second coinseculive workday or more shail be  
rescheduled to a first shift on a Monday-Friday Dasic workweek during such a period of time at the straight rate of  
pay. Such employees will be paid at their basic rate of pay. In the application of other provisions of this Agreement,  
such time off with pay for jury duty will be considered as time worked and, if dismissed by the court on any workday  
before the end of the employee's work hours, such Shall return to work provided such dismissal  
occurs at feast two hours before the conclusion of such hours of work. (Amended 1-1-88)  
(b) Employees who have not attained reguiar status will be allowed time off without pay subject to the  
other provisions of (a) above.  
(c) Employees shall advise their supervisor on the following receipt of notice that they are  
required to report for Jury duty service. The employee may be required ta provide receipt of such notice to their  
supervisor, (Amended 1-1-88)  
### 6.11 WITNESSES  
_ Regular employees will be given the necessary time: off to appear as a witness in administrative, civil or  
criminal cases under the following conditions:  
(a) Employees who are required to appear as witnesses on behalf of Company will be treated with  
respect io the provisions of this Agreement as though they were employed in their customary work.  
Eraployees who are subpoenaed to appear in litigation in which has no interest and is not  
a party, but nonetheless involves an employee's presence as to matters arising out of and in the course of their  
employment with Company will be paid at their regular straight-time rate of pay for the time required to appear or  
testify (but not more than eight hours in any one normal workday), less any remuneration they are entitled to by law  
except that travel and other expenses for which they are reimbursed which are not subject to income tax will not be  
included when computing such remuneration.  
(c) Following dismissal of the employee-witness by the court or administrative agency on any workday  
before the end of the employee's regular work hours, the employee shall retum to work provided such dismissal  
occurs at least two hours before the conclusion of such hours of work. (Amended 1-1-91)  
{dj In all other instances, an employee who has been subpoenaed as a witness in any matter not  
provided for above will be excused from work, without pay, for the time necessary for such administrative or court  
appearance.  
### 6.12 ADOPTION  
Regular will be allowed uR to 8 hours of time off with pay (as Ie court appearances in  
connection with child adoption procedures. Such time may be taken in increments of one hour or more. (Amended  
1-1-88.)  
### TITLE 7. SICK LEAVE  
### 7.4 QUALIFICATION AND RATE OF COMPENSATION  
After completing one year of Service and for each year of Service thereafter, a regular employee shalt be  
allowed sick leava with pay for a total of 80 hours per calendar year. A regular part-time or intermittent employee  
shall be allowed sick leave with pay for such portion of 80 hours per calendar year as the ratio of straight-time hours  
worked in a year to 2,080 hours. (Amended 1-1-91}  
### 7.2 ACCUMULATION  
A regular employee, in addition to the annual sick leave allowed under the provisions of Section 7.1, shall be  
allowed further sick leave with which shall not exceed the total of unused annual sick leave in the eight years  
immediately preceding. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 743 ADDITIONAL SICK LEAVE AFTER 16 YEARS  
In the calendar year in which Company anticipates that an employee may attain ten years of Service and in  
any calendar year thereafter, an employee whose sick leave record qualifies the employee in accordance with the  
formula shown below upon exhausting his/her accumulated and current sick leave, be allowed additional sick  
leave, if needed, not to exceed 160 hours in such calendar year. (Amended 1-1-91)  
For each of the preceding eight calendar years, calculate the employee's annual sick leave accrual  
Px Subtracting nN 80 hours each year the hours (not exceeding 80 hours) of sick leave used in such year.  
mended 1-1-  
(b) Total such annual sick leave accrual for the sight years involved.  
{c} If such total is 320 hours or more, the employee shal! be qualified for the additional allowance.  
(d) Once the employee has qualified for such allowance, such additional allowance shall be  
renewed in full on the first day of each succeeding calendar year.  
### 7.4 ADDITIONAL SICK LEAVE AFTER 20 YEARS  
In the calendar year in which Company anticipates that an employee may attain 20 years of Service, an  
employee who has qualified for additional sick leave under Section 7.3 shall, upon exhausting such additional sick  
leave as provided in Section 7.3, be allowed, if needed, an additional 160 hours in such calendar year. Once the  
employee has qualified for such additional allowance, such additional allowance shall be renewed in full on the first  
day of each Succeeding calendar year.  
### 7.5 ORDER OF USE  
Current sick leave shall not be applied until cumulative sick leave has been exhausted. Cumulative sick  
leave shall be applied in the order in which tt accumulated. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 7.6 HOURLY INCREMENTS  
Sick leave shail be charged by the hour with no charge made for increments of less than one hour, Such  
time off as that allowed for an employee's personal medical and dental appointments shall be charged as sick leave.  
### 7.7 HOLIDAYS  
If a holiday occurs on a workday during the time an employee is absent on sick leave with pay. the employee  
shall receive pay for the holiday as such; and it shall not be counted as a day of sick feave. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 7.8 ABUSE  
Company may require satisfactory evidence of an empioyee’s iliness or disability before sick leave will be  
granted. If an employee abuses the sick leave provisions of this Agreement by misrepresentation or falsification, the  
employee shall restore ta Company all sick leave payments the employee received as a result of such abuse. In  
case of recurring offenses by the employee, Company may cancel all or any part of such employee's current and  
cumulative sick leave, and may treat the offense as it would any other violation of a condition of employment.  
Charges of alleged discrimination in the application of this Section shall be investigated by the Local Investigating  
Committee described in Section 9.6, (Amended 1-1-88})  
### 7.9 TERMINATION DUE TO PHYSICAL DISABILITY  
lf a regular employee is required eee leave the service of Company because of physical disability,  
the employee shall, on termination of employment, be entitled to an allowance which shall be the equivalent of the  
ee to which the employee would be entitled under the provisions of Sections 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, and 7.4. (Amended  
   
### 7.10 PLACEMENT OF PARTIALLY DISABLED EMPLOYEES  
{a) Except as provided in Section 23.2, if an employee's health or physical ability becomes impaired to  
such an extent that he/she cannot perform the work of his/her classification, Company shail, if practical to do so, give  
such employee light work within his/her ability to perform for which he/she shalt be compensated at the rate of pay  
established tor such work. (Amended  
_ .(b) In the event an employee ts disabled due to injury or iliness and is returned to active payroll in a  
physical or clerical classification or ts assigned to a classification designed for the employee with the prior written  
agreement of Union, the employee shall be paid in accordance with the following formuta:  
( _ tf the employee is returned to the classification held before the disability occurred, the rate of  
pay for such classification, or  
(2) lf the employee has less than ten years of service at the time of the employee's disability,  
the rate of pay of the ctassification to which assigned, or  
(3) _ If the employee has ten or more years of service at the time of his or her disability: The rate  
of pay of the classification to which assigned plus four percent per year of service (but not over 100 percent) times the  
difierence between such rate of pay and the rate of pay of the employee's regular classification immediately prior to  
the injury or iliness which caused the employee's disability.  
An employee who returns to active payroll at a rate of pay calculated as in (3) above shall be limited  
to 50 percent of any general wage increase until such time as the partially disabled employee Js receiving a rate of  
pay equal to the rate of the classification to which such employee is assigned. In no case will a partially disabled  
employee who is placed on the active payroll bé paid less than 110 percent of such current LTD rate of  
pay. {Added 1-1-83)  
ae, AC) An employee who is disabled due to or ilness who is able 6 return 16 aciive and the  
ciassijication held prior to such disability but is assigned to a classification with a lower rate of pay shall be entitled to  
the provisions as described above unt! such time_as the employee is returned to his/her former status on an  
accelerated basis as provided in Section 19.9 of the Clerical Agreement. (Amended 1-1-91)  
7.11 (Deleted 1-1-97)  
7.12 (Deleted 1-1-97}  
### 7.13 TIME CARD UPGRADE  
The sick leave pay of an employee who works in other than his/her classitication on a time card basis  
shalt be based on the rate of pay of the reguiar classification. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 7.14 UPGRADE OTHER THAN TIME CARD  
li an employee who is temporarily upgraded other than on a time card basis is absent by reason of illness or  
disability, the sick leave pry for such absence shall be based on the rate of pay of the job to which the employee is  
temporarily upgraded. (Amended 1-1-91}  
### 7.15 RETURN FROM LTD  
By written agreement between the Company and the Union and on an individual basis, an employee who  
qualified for and received benefits under provisions of the Long-Term Disability Plan of the Benefit Agreement  
between the Company and the Union may be returned to active service.  
7.16 FAMILY SICK LEAVE (Added 1-71-00)  
(a) In any calendar year, a regular full or part time employee shall be permitted to use the employee's  
current available sick leave benefits, in an amount equal to the sick leave benefits that the employee would accrue for  
six months at his or her annual rate of entitlement, to attend to an iliness of a child, parent, or spouse of the  
employee.  
(b) _ All conditions and restrictions that apply to an employee’s use of sick feave for his or her own illness  
shall apply to sick leave usage to attend to an illness of a child, parent, or spouse under this section.  
(c} An employee's use of sick leave under this section does not extend the maximum period of leave to  
She the employee may be entitled under the California Family Rights Act or the Federat Family and Medical Leave  
For purpose of this section only, the following definitions shall appiy:  
(1} “Child” means a biological, foster, or adopted child, a stepchild, or a legal ward.  
{2) “Parent” means a biological, foster, or adoptive parent, a stepparent, or a legal guardian.  
8  
### TITLE & VACATIONS  
### 8.1 DEFINITIONS  
(a) Eligibility: The provisions of this Title apply only to regular employees.  
(b) A Regular Employee is an employee who has fulfilled the applicable requirements of Section 17.5  
of this Agreement. (Amended 1-1-91)  
Earned Annual Vacation Allowance is the number of paid vacation days which an has  
earned in the previous calendar year. The number of paid vacation days will be determined by the straight-time days  
worked in the preceding calendar year and years of employment.  
### 8.2 VACATION ALLOWANCE  
(a) Aregular employee, who compietes his/her first year of Service, shall be entitled to vacation with pay  
in accordance with the following table:  
Employment date:  
From to inclusive Days of Vacation  
January 7 February 3 10  
February 4 March 9 9  
March 710 April 11 8  
April 12 ay 14 7  
ay 15 June 16 6  
June 17 July 19 5  
July 20 August 21 4  
August 22 September 23 3  
September 24 ctober 26 2  
October 27 November 28 1  
November 29 December 31 0  
{Amended 1-1-91}  
(b) — In the subsequent calendar years a regular employee shall be entitled to vacation with pay in  
accordarice with the following table:  
Subsequent Calendar Workdays  
Years Following With Pay  
Date of Employment  
2-5 10  
6-15 15  
16-21 20  
22-29 . 25  
30 and greater 30  
(Amended 1-1-91)  
(c) (Deleted 1-1-91)  
(d)} (Deleted 1-1-91)  
(e) (Deleted 1-1-91}  
(f) (Deleted 1-1-91)  
### 8.3 SERVICE ANNIVERSARY VACATION - BONUS VACATION  
(a) In the fifth calendar year following his/her employment date and in each fifth calendar year thereafter,  
Company shail grant each employee a service anniversary vacation of five workdays. A service anniversary vacation  
shall be in addition to the annual vacation allowance set forth in Section 8.2 above to which the employee may be  
otherwise entitled in that calendar year and the employee acquires no right as to all or any part of the service  
anniversary vacation unless the emph works in the calendar year in which itis granted. The service anniversary  
vacation, as herein provided, vests on the first day of each calendar_year in which an em pres qualifies for a service  
anniversary vacation, and must be taken in that calendar year. the provisions of this Section shall not apply to  
part-time or intermittent employees.) (Amended 1-1-91)  
{b) In each of the first five calendar years following his/her employment date an employee who has used  
five days or less of paid or unpaid sick leave in the preceding year shall be entitled to one day of bonus vacation in  
addition to any vacation allowance the employee is eniitled to as set forth in Section 8.2. An employee must complete  
one year of Service before becoming qualified tor such day. In the tenth calendar year foliowing an employee's  
employment date and in each fifth calendar year thereafter an em ployee who has used 25 days or less of sick leave  
during the five preceding calendar years shail be entitled to five bonus days of vacation in addition to the vacation  
allowance the employee is entitled to as set forth in Section 8.2. in determining the number of sick days used in  
computing 25 days or less, no more than ten days or 80 hours will be charged to ihe employee in any one year. The  
bonus vacation, as herein provided, vests on the first day of each year in which an employee qualifies for a bonus  
vacation and must be taken in that calendar year, An employee acquires no right to all or any part of the bonus  
vacation unless such employee works in the calendar year in which it is granted. (The provisions of this Section shall  
not apply to part-time or intermittent employees.) (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 8.4 PART-TIME REGULAR EMPLOYEES  
_ A regular Se Aaah or intermittent employes shall earn an annual vacation allowance as determined in the  
foregoing Section 8.2, but such allowance will be based on the ratio of the total straight-time hours worked by the  
employee in a year to 2,080 hours. 1-1-91)  
### 8.5 FORFEITURE OF VACATION  
(a) An employee who ts absent for 22 consecutive workdays or more in any calendar year by reason of  
leave of absence or layoff without pay for any reason, or for 110 worncaye or more in any calendar year by reason of  
industrial disability, shall in the following calendar year forteit for each 22 workdays of such absence 1/12th of the  
number of days of vacation to which the employee is entitled, to be computed to the nearest full day. An employee  
may, at his/her option, take the full vacation to which the employee would be otherwise entitled, in which event the  
shall receive no vacation pay for the number of days of vacation forfeited as herein determined. (Amended  
1-1-91  
lf any absence is for less than 22 consecutive workdays in duration because of leave of absence, or  
(b)  
without pay for ay reason, or is for less than 110 workdays in duration because of industrial disability, an  
employee shall be entitled to a full vacation as provided for in Section 8.2. (Amended 1-1-91)  
{c) Any employee who ts affected under this Section shall be notified in writing. (Added t-1-84)  
(d) The provisions of this Section do not apply to part-time employees.  
### 8.6 VACATION ALLOWANCE WHEN LAID OFF FOR LACK OF WORK  
An employee who has qualified for a vacation, and who is laid off for lack of work, shall be paid a vacation  
allowance under the provisions of Section 8.7. Thereafter if the employee returns to work and Service is not deemed  
to be broken under the provisions of Title 17, vacation allowance for the next calendar year shalt be computed on the  
basis of 1/10th of the allowance provided for in Section 8.2 for each 22 workdays remaining in the calendar year of  
the employee's return to employment. - (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 8.7 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  
(a) Any employee who terminates Service with the Company for any reason shall be paid a vacation  
aliowance of 1/12th of his/her annual vacation for each 22 workdays worked peyond January 1 of the year in which  
he/she leaves the Company's service, plus any unused vacation earned in the calendar year(s) preceding severance,  
provided the employee('s):  
1) was first employed before December 31, 1969, and retired from the Company's service  
under the provisions of Company's Retirement Plan, or  
(2) was first employed after December 31, 1969, or  
. (3) vacation entitlement as of December 31, 1970, was calculated on the basis of the then  
existing provisions of Section 8.17 of this Agreement.  
(Entire Subsection 1-1-91)  
b) Any employee, other than an employee described in Subsection (a) above, whose Service with  
Company terminates shall, upon such termination, be paid only a vacation allowance equivalent to the unused  
vacalion earned in the calendar year{s) preceding such termination.  
### 8.8 HOLIDAYS DURING VACATION  
If any of the holidays enumerated in Section 14.1 occurs during an employee's vacation, it shall not be  
counted as one day of vacation. The employee shall receive pay for the holiday as such. If a holiday occurs on a  
non-workday in conjunction with an employee’s vacation, the provisians of Section 14.6 shall be appticable.  
(Amended 1-1-84)  
0  
### 8.9 PAY COMPUTATION  
(a) Except as otherwise provided in Subsections 8.9(b} and (C). vacation pay shail be computed at the  
a 1 rate of pay applicable to the employee's regular classification as of the time vacation is taken. (Amended  
(b) The vacation pay of an employee who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time  
card basis shail be based on the rate of pay of such employee's regular classification. (Amended 1-1-91)  
(c) | The vacation pay of an employee who is temporarily upgraded at the time his/her vacation begins on  
other than a time card basis shall be based on the rate of pay of the classification to which he/she is temporarily  
upgraded. In no case, however, shall such upgraded rate of pay apply beyond the expiration date of the temporary  
upgrade. (Amended 1-1-91)  
(d) (Deieted 1-1-97}  
### 8.10 SICK LEAVE  
(a) An employee not be required to use vacatian in lieu of sick leave; provided however that;  
(Amended 1-1-91)  
| (b) an employee who becomes sick or disabled while on vacation shall continue to receive vacation pay  
unless  
(1). the employee has been hospitalized for one day or more for which the employee otherwise  
would receive vacation pay; or (Amended  
° (2) the employee's doctor has ordered the employee to remain in bed for two or more such  
days. (Amended  
### 8.11 DEFERRED VACATION  
An employee may defer vacation in one year and add it to his/her vacation in the next following year,  
provided that the Company gives tts approval thereto prior to December 1 of any year. In no event shall an employee  
defer vacation longer than one year, or be permitted to take more than a total of two vacation allowance years in any  
one vacation year, or take a vacation in advance of the year in which it is due. An employee may defer vacation in  
consecutive years provided that in no event shali the amount of vacation deferred exceed more than one year’s  
vacation allowance. (Amended 1-1-91) »  
__ (b) If an employee forgoes any part of his/her vacation the Company shall pay for the time worked and,  
in addition, shall pay a vacation pay allowance, provided, however, that in no event shall an employee be permitted at  
hisher option to forego vacation for the purpose of Teceiving vacation pay allowance in addition to pay for time  
worked. Time worked in lieu of time off for vacation shall not be considered overtime as such shall be  
compensated at the rates of pay applicable to the work performed. (Amended. 1-1-91)  
### 8.12 STARTING DAY  
For the purposes set forth in the following Section 8.13, vacation shall be scheduled in increments of one  
week or more to commence on Monday, except for an employee whase basic workweek starts on a day of the week  
other than Monday, where the vacation shall commence with the starting day of the employee's basic workweek. An  
employee shall be allowed vacation in increments of one-half day or more on any day of the week, except where  
prohibited by operational needs or where necessary relief cannot be provided, or where the payment of overtime to  
another employee would be required. (Amended 1-1-84)  
### §.13 SCHEDULING  
(a} An employee desiring to use vacation during the months of January, February and March shail  
indicate a choice of vacation periods oy the 15th day of December of the preceding year. Company shall post on  
appropriate bulletin boards in each headquarters a special sign-up schedule for this purpose. (Amended 1-1-91)  
Not later than March 5 of each year Company shall post on appropriate bulletin boards another  
vacation schedule sign-up in each department in each headquarters where employees shall designate their cheice of  
vacation periods for the months of April through December for that year. Such schedule shail be posted no later than  
March 15 on the appropriate headquarters’ bulletin boards.  
(b) = (1) Company shall schedule vacations throughout the calendar year and shalt prepare the  
annual vacation schedule on the basis of the sign-up giving effect where possible to the selection of employees in  
order of their Service. An employee may schedule in increments of one-half day or more. (Amended 1-1-  
{2} To prevent undue interference with the proper and economic rendition of service to the  
public, Company may designate the number of employees at a headquarters, the number of employees within a  
Classification at a headquarters or within a Bidding Area or the number of employees within a combined group of  
classifications within a Line of Progression at a headquarters or within a Bidding Area which may be on vacation al  
11  
one time. In such event there shall be a separate sign-up schedule for each such group and a vacation schedule  
shall be prepared for each group giving effect where possible to the selection of employees in order of their Service  
within the group designated. (Amended 1-1-91)  
43) if an employee elects to divide the annual vacation into two or more periods on a sign-up  
schedule and it is persue for Company to give effect thereto, such employee shall be given preferential  
consideration over other employees in the selection of only one of such periods until alf other employees within the  
group have indicated their first choice of vacation period. Where more than one employee in a headquarters or group  
esires to divide vacation into two or more periods on a sign-up schedule, there shall be subsequent sign-ups as  
required for selection of open periods not filled by the previous i a Sign-ups for additional periods shall be  
conducted in the same manner with the employee with the most Service having the choice of vacation periods not yet  
selected. (Amended 1-1-97)  
8.14 ERROR  
. if an employee is misinformed as to his/her vacation allowance, the employee will not be required to  
reimburse the Company for any excess day(s) taken if such employee pointed out the to his/her supervisor in  
writing. (Amended 1-1-91)  
In those cases where an employee has not pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in writing beforehand,  
the employee may elect to (a) reimburse the Company for the wages paid for the excess day(s), or {b) have such  
excess day(s) deducted from his/her next year's vacation entitlement, (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 8.15 UNANTICIPATED VACATION  
Any combination of vacation hours, up to 24 per year for full time employees and 16 per year for part-time  
employees, may be taken in increments of one hour or more, not to exceed six (6) hours, at an  
employee’s option. (Amended 71-1-00)  
### 8.16 VOLUNTARY VACATION TRANSFER  
By local agreement between Company and Union, employees may voluntarily sell vacation and transfer the  
roceeds to an employee experiencing a medical emergency (including a medical condition of a family member), who  
as insufficient leave available to cover their absence from work. In addition, and by local agreement between  
Company and Union, an employee may also sell vacation for the purpose of relieving personal financial difficulties  
experienced as a result of a medical emergency in his or her own jamily even though the employee may have paid  
leave available. (Amended 1-1-94)  
### TITLE 9. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
### 9.7 STATEMENT OF INTENT - NOTICE  
The provisions of this Title have been amended and supplemented from time to time. Company and Union  
have now reviséd and consolidated this Title in its entirety to provide a concise procedure for the resolution of  
disputes.  
_ It is the intent of both Company and Union that the processing of disputes through the grievance procedure  
will give meaning and content to the Collective Bargaining Agreement. .  
The parties are in agreement with the policy expressed in the body of our nation's labor laws that the mutuai  
resalution of disputes through a collectively bargained grievance procedure is the hallmark of competent industrial  
self-government. Therefore, apart from those matters that the parties have specifically excluded by way of Section  
9.2, ali disagreements shall be resolved within the scope of the grievance procedure.  
Union agrees to provide with a copy of any settlement reached at the grievant's last known  
address. Such copy shall be sent by certified, U.S. mail, or handed to the grievant, within 30 calendar days of the  
signing of the settlement,  
### 9.2 GRIEVANCE SUBJECTS  
Disputes involving the following enumerated subjects shall be determined by the grievance procedures  
established herein:  
(a) Interpretation or application of any of the terms of this Agreement, including exhibits thereto, letters  
of agreement, and formal interpretations and clarifications executed by Company and Union.  
{b) Discharge, demotion, suspension or discipline of any individual employee.  
{c) Disputes as to whether a matter is proper subject for the grievance procedure.  
12  
### 9.3 TIME LIMITS  
(a) Filing  
_ . It is the intent of Company, Union and the employees that timely filed grievances shall be settled  
promptly. (i) A local grievance is timely filed when submitted by the Union Business Representative or his/her  
alternate (hereinafter either is referred to as “Business Representative’) in writing on the torm adopted for such  
purpose to the Director, HR Service Center, 245 Market Street, San Francisco or his/her alternate (hereinafter either  
Is referred to as "Human Resources Advisor’); or (il) a Business Manager grievance is timely filed when submitted by  
Anon Manager to Company's Industrial Relations Director (iii) within the following time periods:  
mende .  
(1} A grievance which involves the discharge of an employee must be filed not later than 14  
calendar days atter the employee is notified in writing of the discharge. Whether or not a grievance is filed, Company  
a at Union's request, siate in writing the reasons therefore within two workdays of such request. (Amended 1-1-  
1  
(2) A grievance which does not involve the grievant's discharge must be filed not later than 30  
calendar days after the date of the action complained of, or the date the employee became aware of the incident  
which is the basis for the grievance, whichever is later. The Company shall, at Union's request, state in writing the  
oe for an employee's discipline, demotion or suspension within seven calendar days of receipt of such request by  
nion.  
_ (3) +Business Manager grievances which may be filed pursuant to (a}{ii) above shall concern  
contractual interpretation matters which have system-wide or classification wide implications. Business Manager  
genes shail not involve an discharge, demotion, discipline, dernotion or transfer. {Added  
-1-  
The time limits set forth above for filing a grievance are absolute and may not be waived or extended, Failure  
to meet the time limits set forth above will have the same effect as the dismissal of a timely filed grievance concerning  
that incident with prejudice.  
(b) Steps One Through Five Extension of Time Limits  
Either the Company or Union members of any of the Committees provided for in each of the  
following grievance One through Five may, if they agree that further determination of fact is required, request  
an extension of time which may be granted by the other. In no event shall any extension by either or both parties  
exceed one additional time period provided for at the step where the extension is granted.  
### 9.4 FINALITY  
The resolution of a timely grievance at any of the steps provided herein shall be final and binding on the  
Company, Union and the grievant. A resolution at a step below Step Five, while final and binding, ts without prejudice  
to the position of ether party, unless mutually agreed to otherwise.  
a) if an employee has been demoted, disciplined or dismissed from Company's service for alleged  
violations of a Company rule, practice or policy and Company finds upon investigation that such empioyee did not  
violate a Company rule, practice or policy as alleged, Company shall reinstate the employee and pay the employee  
for all time and benefits lost thereby plus on such reinstated pay in the amount of 7 1/2 percent annum.  
} In the event of a “continuing grievance” as set forth in Section 9.9 and Attachment A, a retroactive  
wage adjustment shail be made as provided therein.  
(c) Provided further that nothing contained herein shall restrict or inhibit the parties or the Board of  
Arbitration from reducing the amount of a retroactive wage adjustment to an otherwise successful grievant where, in  
their discretion, the equities of the situation do not call for the employee to receive a full retroactive wage  
adjustment.  
### 9.5 ADJUSTMENTS  
Company will make a reasonable effort to effectuate remedies provided for in a grievance settlement within  
30 calendar days of such settlement.  
### 9.6 STEPS  
### STEP ONE  
### SHOP STEWARDS  
Except for disputes involving an employee's discharge, demotion, suspension, discipline or qualifications for  
promotion or transfer, the initia) step in the of a grievance shal! be a discussion between Union's shop  
steward (or grievant or Business Representative if no shop steward is assigned to the work area) and the foreman or  
other immediate supervisor directly involved. The foreman and_shop steward may discuss the grievance with the  
general foreman or other supervisor of corresponding authority. The purpose of such discussion shall be to reach a  
13  
Business  
satisfactory disposition of the grievance but shall not waive or delay the filing requirements set forth in Section 9.3  
an Discussions shall be af such time and place as not to interfere with the work then in progress. (Amended 1-1-  
Shop stewards shall be employees of Company, and Union may designate as many shop stewards as it  
oe necessary for the proper administration of its affairs and for the administration of the provisions of this  
greement.  
### STEP TWO :  
### LOCAL INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE  
immediately toltowing the filing of a timely grievance, a Local investigating Committee will be established.  
The’ Committee will be composed of the Human Resources Advisor, the Business Representative, the exernpt  
M00) is Involved in the grievance, and the shop steward representing the department involved.  
mended 1-1-  
(1) The Human Resources Advisor and Business Representative will arrange for meetings of the  
Committee at times and places convenient for the persons involved. (Amended 1-1-00)  
(2) The Committee shall meet as soon as reasonably possible and shall make a full and complete  
investigation of all of the factors pertinent to the grievance. if necessary to gain all of the information required to  
resolve the grievance, the Committee may hold investigative interviews with other persons involved in the dispute.  
Except for cause to the contrary, the grievant shall be permitted to be present during these interviews. The  
rievant will not be a party to the disposition of the grievance, nor is the grievant's Concurrence required for the  
ommittee to reach a settlement of the grievance. Griévant, however, does have the right to point out the existence  
of other facts or witnesses favorable to grievant's case.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing prohibition, with the written consent of the Union's Business Manager,  
or designee, the members of the Local Investigatina Committee may include the grievant wheres sucn is  
also the shop steward the depa ment involved in the grievance. fn this limited situation, the shop  
steward/grievant may be a party to the disposition of the grievance. (Amended 1-1-  
(3) (a} Within 30 calendar days following the filing of a grievance which does not concern an  
employee's qualifications for promotion or transier (except as provided in the next paragraph for inter-regional, or  
General Office Departmental prebids or transfer applications), or the employee's demotion, suspension or termination  
of employment, the Local Investigating Committee shall prepare a report of its findings, which shall include: (i) a  
mutually agreed-to brief narration of all the events and factors invoived in the dispute, and {ii} the Committee's  
mutually agreed-to findings with respect thereto. if the Committee has reached an agreeable disposition of the  
grievance, the report shall also coniain a to thai effect and the reasons therefore. (Amended 1-1-88)  
inter-regional or General Office Departmental prebids or transfer applications shall be subject to the  
further limitation, however, that the report of the employee's present Regional or General Office Departmental Local  
Investigating Committee shall be forwarded within 15 calendar days from the date a Spon was requested by the  
bypassing Region or General Office Department and further, the latter Committee musi of the grievance, in  
the manner described above, no later than 15 calendar days thereafter. (Amended 1-1-88)  
If the grievance is not resolved in 30 calendar days following its being timely filed, either Company or  
Union me, request "Certification to Fact oe for a local grievance or referral fo the Review Committee for a  
anagers Grievance. (Amended 1-1-00) ,  
The referral in either event shall be accompanied by the report referred to above. The referral shall  
also include either an agreed-to summary or separate summaries of the reasons (facts or factors in dispute) why the  
Lacal Investigating Committee could not resolve the grievance.  
lf either party requests "Certification to Fact Finding," copies of the report and the request shall be  
forwarded to the Chairman and the Secretary of the Review Committee. li the request is not received within the  
seven calendar days following the expiration of time limits stated for resolution by the Local Investigating Committee  
the grievance will be automalically referred to Fact Finding. Business Manager Grievances not resolved by the LIC  
within the time timits in Step Two (3) (a) wil) be automatically referred to the Review Commitiee. (Amended 1-1-00)  
(3} (b) Within 15 calendar days following the filing of a grievance which does concern an employee's  
qualifications for promotion or transfer (except as provided above for Inter-regional or General Office Departmental  
rebids or transfer applications), or an employee's demotion, suspension or termination of employment, the Local  
nvestigating Committee shal) prepare a report of its findings as set jorth in Subsection (a) above.  
lf such grievance is not resolved in 15 calendar days following its being timely filed, the grievance  
must be referred to and accepted by the Fact Finding Committee. The referral shall also include the report referred to  
above and either an agreed-to summary or separate summaries of the reasons (facts or factors in dispute) why the  
Locai investigating Committee could nol resolve the grievance. (Amended 1-1-88)  
14  
### STEP THREE  
### FACT FINDING COMMITTEE  
The Fact Finding Committee shall be composed of the Chairman of the Review Committee or his/her  
designee, the Secretary of the Review Committee or his/her designee, and the Human Resources Advisor and the  
Business Representative involved in the preceding step. (Amen 1-1-00)  
The Fact Finding Committee shall hold hearings or meet at such places and times as it deems necessary to  
resolve the grievance. If the grievance is resolved by the Fact Finding Committee before the expiration of the 30  
calendar days following the date of referral from the preceding step, the Committee shall issue an agreed-to  
“Memorandum of Disposition,” copies of which shail be distributed to each member of the Committee and to the  
grievant, and such others as the Committee determines.  
lf the Fact Finding Committee has not settled the grievance within 30 calendar days following receipt of or  
acceptance of certification, it may, by mutual agreement of the Secretary and Chairman, be:  
(1) referred to arbitration; or  
(2) referred to the Region or Genera! Office Department Joint Grievance Committee; or  
(3) referred back to the Local Investigating Committee for further information and/or instructions as  
to the grounds for settiement; or  
_ if none of the foregoin can be mutually agreed to, the complete grievance file shall be referred to the Review  
Committee. (Amended 1- “B8)  
### REGIONAL OR GENERAL OFFICE DEPARTMENT JOINT GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE (Deleted 1-71-00)  
STEP FOUR (Title Amended 1-1-00)  
### REVIEW COMMITTEE  
_ The Review Committee shal! consist of four representatives designated by Company's of Industrial  
Relations, one of whom shall serve as Chairman of the Committee, and four representatives designated by the  
Union, one of whom shall serve as Secretary of the Committee. Company will not assume payment of any expense  
or lost time incurred by Union members of the Review Committee. (Amended 6-1-03)  
The Chairman of the Committee shail maintain an agenda of the current cases referred to the Committee.  
long as there are cases pending on the agenda, the Committee shall meet at least once each calendar month.  
These monthly meetings shail be scheduled for the fourth Thursday of each month unless the Chairman and  
Secretary agree to mee! more often.  
### A. PRE-REVIEW COMMITTEE PROCEDURE  
_ After the Industrial Relations Department receives a Business Manager's Grievance or the file from the Local  
esas Committee, or Fact Finding Committee as provided for in the foregoing, four copies shalt be submitted  
ta the Union's Business Office. Thereafter, and prior to docketing, the Chairman and the Secretary of the Review  
Committee shall meet at a mutually agreeable time and place for the following purposes: (Amended t-1-00)  
(i) To allow Company to indicate whether or not it will implement the correction asked for. in the event  
Company takes such action, the grievance will, upon agreement of Union, be considered closed; or  
(i) | To allow Union to indicate whether or not it will summarily reject the grievance. In the event Union  
takes such action, the grievance will, upon agreement of Company, be considered closed; or  
_ (iii) To determine whether or not the file forwarded for review contains sufficient facts to enable the  
Review Committee to formulate a decision. In the event it is determined the file is incomplete, it shall forthwith, and  
prior to docketing, be retumed to the source of referral for correction or supplementation.  
(iv) To number and docket cases not disposed of by subparagraphs (i), (i) and (iii) above; and  
(v) To prepare a statement of issues and to endeavor to reach a preliminary understanding of grounds  
for settlement.  
Mi) To appoint a Local eae Committee to investigate and prepare a Joint Statement of Facts for  
Business Manager Grievances, (Added 1-1-00)  
### B. REVIEW COMMITTEE PROCEDURE  
_ After the Pre-Review Committee meeting, referrals not disposed of shall automatically be added to the  
Review Committee Agenda.  
_ {i Cases for which preliminary grounds for have been reached in the Pre-Review  
Committee meeting shall have priority over other cases. The parties shall, as expeditiously as possible, determine  
15  
whether the preliminary grounds are dispositive of the matter. In the event it is not, the matter shall be treated in the  
Same manner as any other referral.  
(ii} _ Other referrals - Within 30 calendar days of cocketing a grievance, the Company shall submit, in  
writing, a “Preliminary Disposition" of all new cases placed on the Agenda. Company may have a continuance for an  
additional 30 caiendar days or until the next Review Committee meeting, whichever is laier, to submit such  
Preliminary Disposition,  
{iit) After receipt of the Preliminary Disposition, Union. shall have 30 calendar days or until the next  
Review Committee meeting, whichever is later, to submit to the Company a “Counter-Preliminary  
isposition,”  
(iv) After receipt of Union's “Counter-Preliminary Disposition,” a matter may, at the option of erther party,  
be sei over to the next scheduled Committee meeting if, in the view of either party, compromise or settlement  
appears possible. Within 30 calendar days thereafter or at the conclusion of the next scheduled meeting, whichever  
occurs later, the matter must be disposed of by mutual agreement, in writing, by one of the following methods:  
{1} Settlement.  
(2} Acceptance of Company's "Preliminary Disposition."  
(3) Acceptance of Union's “Counter-Pretiminary Disposition."  
(4) Close the Review Committee file and remove it from its Agenda by notifying the Company's  
Director of industrial Relations and the Union's Business Manager that the case is "suspended." Following such  
notice, the Union's Business Manager and Company's Manager oi Industrial Relations shall, within 15 calendar days,  
meet for the purpose of proposing an interim consultative disposition of the issues involved or, at their option, refer  
the case to an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee as provided for pursuant to the provisions of Title 24. (Amended 6-7-  
If a matter so suspended has not been referred to an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee for interim  
negotiations within 15 calendar days of the receipt of the case from the Review Committee and, provided further, if no  
other disposition is made within that time period, the case may, within five calendar days of the expiration of said 15  
calendar days, be filed for arbitration pursuant to the applicable provisions of the applicable Labor Agreement then in  
effect between the parties. If not filed for arbitration or if the day limits are not waived as provided for  
herealter, or if the grievance has not been withdrawn, the grievance shall be considered finally settled without  
prejudice.  
If Ad Hoc Negotiations are agreed upon within the time periods panes the Committee will meet  
and confer at the earliest date that can be are. between them. The Committee will meet thereaiter as often as  
both parties deem necessary to effect an early disposition of the issues involved. The Committee is empowered to  
render a final, binding disposition of the case. Such decision will be reduced to writing, signed by both Union and  
Company, and distributed by each to Union members and Company's management as each deems necessary to  
effectuate the decision.  
If an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee is unable to reach a disposition of the "suspended" case within  
180 days of the date the case was suspended, and if within that period of time neither party has notified the other in  
writing of their intent to submit said case to arbitration, then at the expiration of said 180 days, the case shall be  
automatically closed without prejudice, uniess there is mutual agreement that the case be terminated by other means.  
While "suspended," the ern disposition proposed by either party may, upon mutual  
agreemeni of ihe parties, be placed into effect anywhere without prejudice to either party. i both have submitted  
preliminary that provide for different methods of resolving the issues, either or both may, by mutual  
agreement, be put into effect for the purpose of determining which, if either, is mutually acceptable to the parties as a  
solution.  
To provide a favorable atmosphere for negotiating a settlement of the issue referred to an Ad Hoc  
Negotiating Commitiee and to encourage the trial of preliminary dispositions proposed by either Company or Union,  
the period of “suspension” will insulate Company from additional monetary liability, if that is involved In the case, in the  
following manner: The Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee is empowered'to mutually determine in an appropriate case,  
the amount of retroactive wage adjustment which will accompany its disposition of the case. In no event, however,  
will such period of retroactive wage adjustment exceed the period of time beginning with the date the grievance was  
originally tiled and ending with the 30th calendar day following the date the Union notifies Company of their election to  
“suspend,”  
The period of suspension shall end, and the insulation of Company of further liability shall cease  
whenever either party notifies the other of tts desire to submit the case to arbitration.  
(5) Referral to arbitration.  
(6) Withdrawal of the grievance by Union without prejudice.  
16  
Unless the parties mutually agree in writing to the waiver of the applicable time limitation in any  
Specific instance, the failure to strictly comply with the time limits provided above shall result in:  
(1) Granting, at the option of the Union, of the correction sought by the grievance if Company does  
not submit its "Prefiminary Disposition" within the time limits set forth in item (ii) of this Part B, or  
(2} The closure of the case without adjustment and without prejudice.  
{vi} Either party may request a Review Committee hearing. Such hearing will be scheduled at the  
earliest time possible, but shall not delay or extend the running of time limits set forth in Part B of this Procedure.  
STEP FIVE (Title Amended 1-1-00)  
### ARBITRATION  
### A. TRIPARTITE BOARD  
__ Either Company or Union may request, within the time limits provided in the foregoing steps, that a grievance  
which is not settled at one of the steps provided above be submitted to arbitration.  
An Arbitration Board shall be appointed on each occasion that a grievance is timely submitted to arbitration  
pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Title. The board shal] be composed of two members pointed by  
Company, two members appointed by Union, and a fifth member appointed pursuant to the procedure set forth in the  
fatlowing Subsection B. Such fifth member shall act as Chairman ot the Arbitration Board and conduct hearings and  
render a decision in accordance with the appropriate Submission Agreement.  
### B. SELECTION PROCEDURE  
The parties to an arbitration proceeding will make a good faith effort to mutually agree to the selection of the  
Chairman. If they cannot, each party shall nominate two candidates from the pane! established by Company and  
Union, Subsection C. if the parties are still unable to agree upon the selection of a Chairman, then the Chairman  
shall be chosen by lot from the panel names submitted.  
### C. PANEL OF ARBITRATORS  
A panel of not more than ten arbitrators shall be established and renewed annually by the mame and the  
Union on January 1 of that year. Each party shall have the right to name five panelists who will remain on the panel  
during the calendar year.  
### 9.7 INDIVIDUAL DISPUTE ADJUSTMENT  
Pursuant to the provisions of Subsection 9(a) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1949, as last  
amended, no provision of this Title shall be construed to restrict or Brom it an individual employee or group of  
employees from presenting disputes to Company and to have such disputes adjusted without the intervention of  
Union, provided that the adjustment shal! not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, and that Union shall  
be given an opportunity to be present at such adjustment. (Amended 1-1-91)  
_ An employee’s election under this Section shall not preciude the employee’s later consenting to Unian’s filin  
a grievance on his/her behalf if the employee is not satisfied with the results. Such grievance, however, must be file  
within the time limits provided in Section 9.3, and such time limits are not delayed or suspended by the  
Original choice to pursue the dispute without Union's intervention. (Amended 1-1-91)  
Uniess the employee consents to Union's later filing of a grievance, the procedures and grievance  
“steps” set forth in the foregoing Sections of this Title are not available to the employee.  
### 9.8 ENABLING CLAUSE  
By written agreement between Company and Union, ather provisions may be substituted for or added to the  
provisions of this Title. .  
### 9.9 ATTACHMENTS  
In addition to the provisions of Section 20.1, the Benefit Agreements, Training Agreements, and other special  
agreements that may be executed from time to time under Section 9.8, the provisions of this Title shall also include  
the following attachment which is set out elsewhere in this Agreement.  
(a) Continuing Grievances  
{Entire Tithe Amended 1-1-80)  
7  
   
Attachment A  
### LABOR AGREEMENT INTERPRETATION  
SUBJECT: Retroactive Wage Adjustment - Continuing Grievances  
SECTION 102.2 - Physical Agreement  
SECTION 9.2 - Clerical Agreement  
_ For the purpose of determining the extent of a retroactive wage adjustment resulting from the submission of  
a continuing grievance timely filed under the applicable provisions of Section 102.2 or 9.2, thé following procedure will  
be observed. For this purpose, a "continuing grievance” ts defined as a continuing course of conduct allegedly in  
violation of the Labor Agreement as opposed io a single isolated and completed transaction,  
A _ The period of retroactive wage adjustment shall not exceed mat (30) calendar days prior to the date  
of filing such grievance in writing in the jorm and manner prescribed by Section 102.2 or 9.2, whichever is  
unless  
2. __— iit can be established that sometime prior to filing the grievance, as provided above, the grievant  
requested his or her supervisor to make the same correction, during the period of that continuing course of conduct,  
and a supervisor of grievant, who is authorized to make the correction, had declined to da so. The period of  
retroactive wage adjustment in this case (or an adjustment made pursuant to the provisions of Section 102.7 or 9.7)  
shall commence with the date it can be established that grievant made such request. In etther event, however, if the  
request was made within thirty (30) calendar days of the day the alleged violation first occurred, the adjustment shall  
commence with the first day the violation occurred.  
It is further understood and agreed that this interpretation shall in no way limit Companys right to make  
further wage adjustments which result from unintentional or inadvertent errors which are not alleged to be a matter of  
4 trti at thn | en Awd  
law or OF ine Lavor Agree  
For Union: ‘si Ronald i fieakley For Company: /s/_ LW. Bonbright  
ts Business Manager its Manager of Industrial Relations  
Date: March 17, 1969  
### TITLE 10, HOURS OF WORK  
### 10.1 WORKWEEK AND BASIC WORKWEEK  
_ A workweek is defined to consist of seven consecutive calendar days and a basic workweek is defined to  
consist of five workdays of eight hours each. The days in the basic workweek shall be known as workdays and other  
days in the workweek shall be known as non-workdays. Employees may be scheduled to work more or less than five  
days per week or more or less than eignt hours per day, but in any such event the basic workweek shall continue to  
be as herein defined. Except as provided in Section 10.3, the basic workweek shall be from through Frida  
or from Tuesday through Saturday. Employees may be assigned to the basic workweek of Tuesday throug  
Saturday in rotation.  
### 10.2 PUBLIC CONTACT DEFINED  
An employee who is assigned to work in a commercial or business office which brings the employee into  
direct contact with the shall be known as a public contact employee. The foregoing definition shall include  
A ct counter clerks, cash receivers, telephone service clerks, PBX operators and adjusters,  
mended 1-1- |  
### 10.3 WORKWEEK OF PUBLIC CONTACT EMPLOYEES  
The workweek of a public contact employee shall be regularly scheduled and may start on any day of the  
week and at any hour of the day. The workdays of the basic workweek of public contact employees may be  
consecutive or non-consecutive. Company shall keep assignments of such employees to work on non-consecutive  
workdays to a minimum consistent with the rendering of adequate service to the public and shall, if practicable, assign  
employees to such workdays in rotation.  
### 10.4 REGULAR HOURS OF WORK  
In general, and except as otherwise provided herein, the regular hours of work shall be from 8:00 a.m. to  
5:00 p.m. with not more than one hour off for lunch. The lunch period shall be scheduled between 11:00 a.m. and  
2:00 p.m. and when scheduled for less than one hour, adjustment to correspond thereto shall be made in hours of  
work. i  
18  
### 10.5 PUBLIC CONTACT HOURS  
_ _ seérvice to the public requires, or when established office hours are other than from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,  
poe contact employees may be regularly scheduled to work hours other than from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Work  
ours other than from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m, for full-time employees shall be kept to a minimum consistent with the  
rendering of adequate service to the public. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 10.6 EXCEPTIONS TO 10.4  
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to limit the ngnt af Company to establish hours of  
work at times other than as provided in Section 10.4, for such employees as stub-cierks, payment processors, cash  
posters, data entry operators, machine operators, computer operators, core console operators, and those  
classifications listed in Exhibit G, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof. The hours of work of such  
employees shall be regularly scheduled. (Amended 1-1-80)  
### 10.7 HOURS CHANGES - PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OR AGREEMENT  
(@) The reguiar hours of work established herein may be changed by Company at the request or  
direction_of public authorities provided, however, that before any such change is made Company shail discuss it with  
shall not be required to pay overtime compensation by reason of any change made as provided in  
is Su ion,  
d Un & Such hours of work and the basic workweek may also be changed by agreement between Company  
and Union.  
### 10.8 TEMPORARY CHANGE OF HEADQUARTERS  
If an employee is required to leave such employee's regular headquarters and report to a temporary  
headquarters the travel time involved shall be considered as time worked. If an employee is required to report directly  
from tne employee's living quarters to a temporary headquarters, the employee shall be paid for the amount of travel  
time involved which is in excess of the time normally taken in traveling from the employee's living quarters to the  
employee's regular headquarters. If an employee is required to leave a temporary headquarters and return to such  
employee's regular headquarters the travel time involved shall be considered as time worked. If an employee goes  
directly from a temporary headquarters to his/her living quarters, the employee shall be paid for the amount of travel  
time involved which is in excess of the time normally taken in traveling from such employee's regular headquarters to  
ean Thé provisions of Section 15.2 shalt apply to the use of an employee's personal vehicle.  
mended 1-1-  
### TITLE 11. PREMIUM PAY  
### 11.1. SHIFT DEFINITIONS  
All eight hour work periods regularly scheduled to begin at 4:00 a.m. or thereafter but before 12:00 o'clock  
noon shall be designated as first shifts. All eight hour work periods reguiarly scheduled to begin at 12:00 o'clock noon  
or thereafter but Before 8:00 p.m. shall be designated as second shifts. All eight hour work periods regularly  
scheduled to begin at 8:00 p.m. or thereafter but before 4:00 a.m. shall be designated as third shifts.  
### 41.2 AMOUNT OF SHIFT PREMIUM  
(a) No shift premium shall be paid for the first shift. An hourly premium of 4 1/2 percent of the weighted  
average Straight-time rate of all employees represented by Union (rounded to the nearest full cent per hour) shall be  
paid for work performed in the second shift, and an hourly premium of 9 percent of the weighted average straight-time  
rate of all oo by Union (rounded to the nearest full cent per hour} shall be paid for work  
performed in the third shitt. An emptoyee will be pad the shift premium, if any, in effect for such employee's regular  
work hours for work performed on a regular workday where all work performed is con with regular work hours.  
An employee will be paid the shift premium, if any, in effect for the shift in progress at the time such employee reports  
for wor (exclusive travel time} when work is performed on a regular workday where such work is not contiguous  
with regular work hours. An employee will be paid the shift premium, if any, in effect for time worked on such  
employee's non-workday based on the shift in progress at the time the employee starts work (exclusive of travel  
time). (Amended 1-1-91  
b) — The weighted average straight-time rate referred to in Subsection (a) hereof shall be calculated  
annually Y adding any general wage increase effective on January 1 to the computed weighted average straight-time  
rate as of the December 31 imme  
rate ¢ é iataly prior, as provided for in (c) below. The effective date of any change  
in shift premium shall be January 1. (Amended 1-1-91)  
 c When all emplo es represented by Union are not granted equal increases, or where the effective  
date is not the same, the calculation shall be computed by adding the appropriate general wage increase to the  
appropriate group's weekly payroll of the month immediately prior to the effective date of the general wage increase  
and adding the totals of the together to ascertain the total weekly payroll of the groups of employees  
represented by the Union. e sum of those amounts should be divided by the total number of employees  
represented by the Union and divided by 40, (Added 1-1-91)  
19  
### 11.3 OVERTIME RATE  
When a shift premium is applicable to time worked at the overtime rate of pay, the applicable multiplier shall  
be used in determining the applicable shift premium.  
### 11.4 NON-WORK TIME  
Shift premiums shall be payable only for hours actually worked and shail not be payable for non-work time  
such as holidays, sick leave and vacation.  
### 11.5 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
premiums shail not be payable for work performed by part-time employees (as that term is defined in  
Section 17.6) who work less than 8 hours per day.  
### 11.6 DISCLAIMER  
_ Nothing contained in Sections 11.1 to 11.5, inclusive, shall be construed to modify or supersede any other  
provisions of this Agreement with respect to hours of work, rates of pay, and working conditions.  
### 11.7 SUNDAY PREMIUM  
in addition to any other compensation due an employee, Company shall pay to all employees regularly  
scheduled to work on Sunday, and who in fact work on a Sunday, an hourly premium for such work equal to the  
Premium paid by Company for the third shift as provided in Subsection 17.2{a) of the Agreement. {Added 1-14-80)  
### TITLE 12. OVERTIME  
### 12.4 DEFINITION  
Overtime is defined as (a) time worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek, {2 time worked in excess of  
eight hours on a workday, &) time worked on a non-workday, (d} time worked on a@ holiday as provided for in Title 14  
and (e) time worked outside of regular work hours on @ workday. Company shall not be required to pay overtime  
compensation more than once for any single period of time worked. Overtime shall be cumujated each day and shall  
be compensated to the nearest 1/4 hour.  
### 12.2 RATE AND DOUBLE-TIME CONDITIONS  
(a) In general, overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times the straight rate of pay shall  
be paid to employees for overtime as defined in ltemms (a), (b), (c}, (d) and (e} of Section 12.1; except that  
b} the time worked in excess of 12 consecutive hours and continuing until the employee is dismissed  
from such work shall be paid at the rate of two times the ernployee's straight rate of pay, or  
(c) __ if, following an em ployee's dismissal from work or on an employee's non-workday or holiday which  
the empioyee is scheduled to have off, the employee is called out for work, the employee shall be paid at two times  
the employee's straight rate of pay for all work performed outside the employee's regular work: hours or on a  
non-workday or holiday which the employee is scheduled to have off. (Amended 1-1-88)  
_ {d) The time worked in excess of eight hours on the employee's second of two scheduled days off  
counting from the basic workweek shall be paid at the rate of two times the employees straight rate of pay provided  
such employee has work on the first scheduled day off. pol i ag scheduled t6 have four consecutive  
days shall be entitled, in addition to the above, to pay at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay for  
the time worked in excess of eight hours on the fourth scheduled day off, provided that such employee has also  
performed work on the third scheduled day off.  
(e) For purposes of this Section, an employee's "regular hours of work" shall be the same on a  
non-workday as those reqularly scheduled for such employee on a workday.  
### 12.3 EQUAL DISTRIBUTION  
(a) Prearranged and emergency overtime work shail be distributed among employees within a  
department as equally as practicable. The will post the overtine worked or credited as worked for each  
person for that week. The method for practicable equalization of ed and emergency overtime should be  
developed at each location by agreement between Cornpany and Union. Such procedure should be in writing and  
signed by both parties. Whether procedures are developed or not, it is incumbent on Company to comply with the  
provisions of this Subsection concerning equal distribution. Where an imbalance cannot be justified, paying the  
aggrieved employee(s) is an appropriate remedy after the end of the accounting period, although this does not  
preclude other local agreements. (Amended 1-1-91)  
(6) An employee who is scheduled to be off on vacation shall not be scheduled for work under this  
Section for the period between the end of the employee's last day of work preceding the employee's vacation  
20  
and the start of the em first regular day of work following the vacation. An employee who is off due to illness  
or injury shall not be scheduled for work under this Section until the employee returns to work on a regular workday.  
### 12.4 TRAVEL TIME - EMERGENCY  
Employees who are called irom their homes for emergency work on their non-workdays or on holidays which  
they are entitled to have off, or outside of their regular work hours on workdays shail be paid overtine compensation  
for the actual work time and travel time in connection therewith. (Amended 1-1-88)  
### 12.5. TRAVEL TIME - CALL OUT BEFORE WORK HOURS  
If an employee, who is called out for emergency work outside of such employee's regular work hours on a  
workday, continues to work into or nd the employee's regular work hours the employee shall be paid overtime  
compensation for actual travel time only from his/her home. (Amended 1-1-88)  
### 12.6 TWO-HOUR MINIMUM - EMERGENCY  
The minimum time for which overtine compensation shall be paid under the provisions of Section 12.4 shail  
be two hours, except that if an employee who is called out for emergency work outside of such employee's reqular  
work hours on workdays continues to work inte or beyond regular work hours the employee shall be paid overtime  
compensation only for travel time as provided in Section 12.5 and for actual work time up to regular work hours  
unless the provisions of Section 12.10 are applicable. When an employee is called out for emergency work durin  
his/her lunch period, the minimum time provision hereof shail not be applicable, but such employee shall be paid a  
the avertime rate of pay for the actual time worked during the tunch periad. (Amended 1-1-91.}  
### 12. PREARRANGED OVERTIME  
_ When, at the request of the supervisor in charge, an employee reports for prearranged work (a) on workdays  
outside of his/her regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and  
travel time in connection therewith, provided, however, that if such employee continues to work into or beyond the  
employee's regular work hours, such employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time from the  
employee's home and for actual work time up reguiar work hours unless the provisions of Section 12,10 are  
applicable; (b) on non-workdays outside of his/her regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime  
compensation for actual work time and travel time in connection therewith, provided, however, that if such employee  
continues to work into or beyond regular work hours, travel time only from the employee's home shall be paid for; and  
(c) on non-workdays during regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for actual  
work time. For the purpose of this Section prearranged work shall be deemed to be work for which advance notice  
has been given by the end of the employee's preceding work period on a workday. However, Company shall make a  
good faith effort to notify the ae at least 24 hours in advance of the need to perform prearranged overtime  
work on non-workdays or holidays. (Amended 1-1-88)  
### ' 12.8 TRAVEL TIME BEFORE REGULAR HOURS  
The provisions of Section 12.7 as to travel time shall not apply when the prearranged work starts less than  
two hours before regular work hours. 2  
### 12.9 MINIMUM PAY - CANCELLATION  
If an employee is instructed by his/her supervisor to eon for prearranged work on a non-workday, or on a  
holiday which the employee is entitled to take off with pay, and such work is cancelled, the employee shall be paid  
overtime compensation for a minimum of two hours, inclusive of any travel time as provided in Section 12.7, if the  
employee is not given notice of the cancellation of such work by the end of his/her preceding work period on a  
workday. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 12.10 REST PERIODS  
_ If an employee has worked for eight hours or more at the overtime rate during the 16 hour period immediately  
preceding the beginning of the employee's regular work hours on a workday, such employee shall be entitled to a rest  
period of aight consecutive hours on the completion of such overtime work.  
(a). There shail be included as part of the eight hours worked at the overtime rate in such 16 hour period  
any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled when emergency or prearranged work is periormed,  
except that any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled after being dismissed from work shall not  
a ae = an worked in such period, but it shall be included in the computation of the eight hour rest period.  
men -1-  
b) Hours worked prior to any eight hour rest period in which the employee does not work shail not be  
included in computing another period of overtime work.  
(c) — If the eight hour rest period in whole or in part overlaps the employee's regular work hours, the  
employee will receive pay at the straight rate for the extent of the overlap, except that the time taken during such  
Mon for any meal to which the employee is entitled on dismissal shall be paid for at the overtime rate. (Amended  
21  
If the employee is called back to work during his/her eight hour rest period, a new rest period will  
commence at the conclusion of such work, (Amended 1-1-91}  
(e}, (1) lf the rest period overlaps the employee's regular work hours but does not extend into the  
second half of the the employee shall be excused from reporting for work until the beginning of  
the second half of the employee's workday, and in such an event the employee shall be paid for the time between the  
expiration of the rest period and the end of the first half of such workday. (Amended 1-1-88)  
(2) lf the rest period extends into the second haff of the employee's workday, the employee shall  
be excused from reporting for work until the following workday, and in such event the employee shail be paid for the  
the expiration of the rest period and the employee's regular quitting time on such day. (Amended  
(3) In the application of the foregoing, an employee, due to operational needs, may be required  
to report to work at the end of the employee's rest period. (Amended 1-1-88)  
(f) An employee entitled to a rest period hereunder may nevertheless be required to work during regular  
work hours on a workday without having had a rest period of eight consecutive hours, in which event the employee  
shall be paid at two times the straight rate of pay for all work performed until the employee has been relieved from  
duty for at least eight consecutive hours. (Amended  
### 12.11 TIME OFF IN LIEU OF OVERTIME - PROHIBITED  
Company shall not require employees to take equivalent time off during a workday in lieu of overtime  
compensation. (Added 1-1-88)  
### TITLE 13. WAGES  
### 13.1. WAGE RATES IN EXHIBIT F  
Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit F is a schedule of the wage rates applicable to  
employées covered by this Agreement.  
### 13.2 PAYDAY  
(a) Wages shall be paid at biweekly intervals on Fridays for the two week payroll period ending not less  
than four nor more than ten days prior to the pay date, provided thal if the regular pay date falls on a holiday payment  
shall be made on the preceding workday.  
(b} Company shali make direct deposit of regular pay available to all employees. (Added 1-1-91)  
### 13.3. WAGE RATE ON PROMOTION  
iar as otherwise provided in Subsection 13.9({a), an employee who is assigned to a  
classification having a higher maximum wage rate shall be paid at the highest wage rate of the following:  
(a the first step of the wage progression of such classification which is higher than the employee's  
present wage rate, or (Amended 1-1-91)  
. (b) at the wage step in the higher classification determined by the time previously accumulated in such  
higher classification, as provided for in Section 13.7, or  
the lop rate of pay of such higher classification if the employee has previously been demoted or  
displaced, pursuant to Title 19, from a clerical classification having a higher wage rate than the classification to which  
the employee is assigned. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 13.4 TEMPORARY UPGRADE  
_. When an employee is temporarily assigned to work in a classification higher than his/her  
classification for two hours or more, such employee shall be paid at the wage rate of the higher classification. Such  
ew paid for the time worked in the higher classification at the highest wage rate of the following:  
mended 6-1-  
the first step of the wage progression of such classitication which is higher than his/her present wage  
rate, or (Amended 1-1-91)  
(b) the wage step in the higher classification determined by the time previously accumulated in such  
higher classification, as provided in Section 13.7, or  
(c) the top rate of pay of such higher classification if the employee has previously been demoted or  
displaced, pursuant to 19, from a clerical classification having a higher wage rate than the classification to which  
the employee has been temporarily assigned. (Amended 1-1-91)  
22  
### 13.5 NEW CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES  
Upon agreement thereon by Company and Union, additional regular classifications, wages therefor, and  
normal Lines of Progression may be established, and the wages, duties and Line of Progression of any classification  
eyes, ending such agreement, Company may establish temporary classifications and wages therefor.  
13.6 (Deleted 7-1-66)  
### 13.2 WAGE PROGRESSION  
(a} An employee who has accumulated sufficient time in a classification having a time progression shall  
be advanced to the next step in such classification until such employee receives the maximum rate thereof. For the  
purpose of wage rate in a temporary Classification, the time worked by an employee in other than his/her  
regular classification snall also be accrued in such temporary classification. (Amended 1-1-91}  
(b) The "Wage Progression" of an employee who is absent on leave of absence without pay for more  
than ten consecutive workdays will be delayed by a period of time equivalent to such leave of absence. The age  
Progression” of an employee in a beginning or other negotiated training classification who is absent for more than 25  
consecutive workdays because of an industrial injury as defined in Section 23.1 or for an illness or disability and is  
eee sick leave with pay as provided for in Section 7.1, will be delayed by the period in excess of 25 consecutive  
workdays,  
13.8 (Deleted 7-1-66)  
### 13.9 WAGE RATE - ASSIGNED LOWER CLASSIFICATION  
_ fa When Company appoints an employee from another Line of Progression to a beginner's  
classification and such employee is receiving a rate of pay less than the maximum rate of pay for in the  
beginner's. classification to which the employee is such employee shall retain his/her present wage  
progressive step and be credited with time spent in such step but not to exceed six months, toward the next  
progressive wage increase. The rate of pay for the wage progressive step the employee is now in will be adjusted to  
tate of pay for such corresponding step for the inner’s classification in the new Line of Progression which  
relates to his/her time progression and the employee shall receive further applicable increases in accordance with the  
provisions of Subsection 13.7. (Amended 1-1-91  
{b) An employee who is receiving in his/her present classification a rate of pay the same or higher than  
the maximum rate of pay established for the classification to which he/she is being appointed shall receive the top  
rate of pay established for the classification to which the employee is being appointed. (Amended 1-1-91)  
(c) When appoints an employee from a classification covered under the Physical Labor  
Agreement to a classification covered under this Agreement, such employee shall be paid at the first step  
on wage progression of the new classification which is higher than the employee's present wage rate. (Amended  
tap Employees who have received notice of displacement and vacate their base position by  
successful bid, transfer or who are displaced into a lower paying position will maintain their rate of pay for up to  
three years or until such time as the rate of pay in the new position is equal to or greater than that of the  
employee's frozen rate of pay, whichever comes first. If at the end of three years, an employee is still paid above  
the top of the rate for the classification held, the employee will be placed at the top of the rate for that  
classification. During the time that an employee’s pay remains above the wage range of the position into which  
boy bid, the employee will not receive General Wage Increases or Progressive Wage Increases. (Added 1-1-  
13.10 (Deleted 1-1-97)  
### 13.11 WAGE RATE - DIFFERENT LINE OF PROGRESSION (Added 6-1-03)  
A clerical employee in an above entry-level classification who is awarded a bid in an equivalent above  
entry-level classification in a different line of progression, will be placed at the equivalent wage step.  
### TITLE 14. HOLIDAYS  
### 14.1. HOLIDAY ENTITLEMENT  
Only regular employees who are not on a “leave of absence" and who:  
(a) are paid for the workdays immediately before and after the holiday, or  
(b} are off work with permission, but without pay, for reasons of illness or disability, on the workdays  
immediately before and after the holiday, or  
23  
(c) are paid for the workday either before or after the holiday but are off work with permission without  
pay on the other day,  
shall, except as provided in Section 14.7, be entitled to have the following holidays off with pay when they fall on a  
workday in such employee's basic workweek:  
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day 3rd Monday in January)  
Washington's Birthday 3rd Monday in February)  
Memorial Da last Monday in May}  
New Year's Da’ January 1)  
Independence Day July 4)  
Labor Day 1st Monday in September)  
Veterans’ Day Novernber 11  
Thanksgiving Day 4th Thursday in November)  
Friday after Thanksgiving . see 14.5 below}  
Christmas December 25)  
Three Floating Holidays see Section 14.3)  
(Amended 1-1-94)  
14.2 (Deleted 1-1-88)  
### 14.3 FLOATING HOLIDAYS  
(a) An employee may select any day as a floating holiday, except those holidays listed under Section  
14.1, either during the vacation sign-up provided for in Section 8.13 or during the year. Except in emergencies,  
employees shall make a good faith effort to notify their supervisor at least 24 hours in advance for alt floating holidays  
which are not scheduled in accordance with Section 8.13. A supervisor may, however, limit the number of employees  
Ina at hagdar: mirtare ees ha AH AR A” flaating an anew lH mara a  
y Seal Cal 4 Serr cy. ar re Spey Gree  
had teh EA a ae FTE ee aris WIE SE SA  
specific day as a floatin holiday than can be permitted to be off on that day, the preference will be given in order of  
service to employees who sign up during the annual vacation sign-up. Under no circumstances may an employee  
with sy" service "bump" an employee who has signed up for a given floating holiday earlier in the year. (Amended  
1-1-  
(b) (Deleted 1-1-84)  
( Employees are strongly encouraged to schedule and take Fioatin the calendar year  
in which they are granted. However, any unused Floating Holiday hours as of December 31 of each year will be  
converted to vacation hours and will be deferred pursuant to Section 8.1 1{a). (Added 6-17-03)  
### 14.4 SUNDAY HOLIDAYS  
When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday.  
However, those employees scheduled to work on Sunday at the straight-time rate shall observe that Sunday as a  
hotiday and the following Monday shall not be treated as a holiday. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 14.5 EMPLOYEES SCHEDULED TO WORK ON FRIDAY AFTER THANKSGIVING  
Consistent with the provisions of Title 3 of this Agreement, employees may be scheduled to work on the  
Friday following Thanksgiving Day and the provistons of Subsection 14.7{a) are not applicable. In lieu thereof, such  
employee must elect to take another day off by June 1 of the following year. However, if such day off has not been  
arvanged by Company by June 1, the provisions of Subsection 14.7(a) shall apply to the employee's next regularly  
scheduled workday after June 1, provided the employee notifies his/her supervisor of his/her election at least seven  
calendar days in advance of the day selected. The number of such employees who are required to work on the  
Friday following Thanksgiving Day shall be kept to a minimum consistent with operational needs. (Amended 1-1-91}  
### 14.6 HOLIDAY ON EMPLOYEE'S NON-WORKDAY  
If a holiday falls on a regular employee's non-workday, such employee shall be entitled to have one additional  
workday off with pay. Such day shall be scheduled in conjunction with the employee's next scheduled vacation under  
the provisions of Title 8, except that such day may be taken prior to the employee's next scheduled vacation with the  
approval of the supervisor in charge. In no event shall the additional day be taken prior to the date of the holiday. By  
agreement between the employee and the Company, the employee may elect to take one day's pay at the  
straight-time rate for each holiday that falls on his/her non-workday. Such election shall be exercised within ten  
workdays after the holiday falls on an employee's non-workday. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to  
part-time employees. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 14.7. WORK ON HOLIDAYS  
a) Notwithstanding Section 14.1, regular employees may be required to work on holidays which fail on  
their workdays, in which event any such employee shall, in addition to the employee's holiday pay, be paid at one and  
one-half times the employee's straight rate of pay for all time worked on such days. Those regular employees listed  
in Section 10.6 and Exhibit G may, by agreement between the employee and the Company, take an additional  
24  
workday off with ‘pay in lieu of the holiday pay which will be scheduled in accordance with Section 14.6. If Company  
determines that the services of an employee who is regularly scheduled to work on holidays are not required on a  
holiday, such employee shall take the holiday off with pay. (Amended 1-1-88)  
(b) (Deleted 1-1-88.)  
### 14.8 PAY FOR HOLIDAY WORK ON NON-WORKDAY  
_ If an employee is required to work on a holiday which falls on a non-workday or on a workday outside his/her  
basic workweek, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation at one and one-half times the employee's  
straight rate of pay for all time worked on such day, (Amended 1-1-91}  
### 14.9 HOLIDAY PAY FOR PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES  
__ A probationary employee shall not be entitled to pay for a holiday unless such employee works on such day,  
in which event the employee shall be paid at one and one-half times the straight rate of pay for the time so worked.  
(Amended 1-1-91)  
14.10 (Deleted 1-1-97)  
14.11 (Deleted 1-1-97}  
### 14.12 HOLIDAY PAY - TIME CARD UPGRADE  
The holiday pay of an employee who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card or  
attendance report basis shall be based on the rate of pay of his/her reguiar classification. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 14.13 HOLIDAY PAY - OTHER THAN TIME CARD UPGRADE  
The holiday pay of an ee who is temporarily upgraded, other than on a time card or attendance report  
basis shall be based on the rate of pay for the job on which the employee is temporarily upgraded. (Amended 1-1-91)  
14.14 ERROR  
. If an employee is misinformed as to his/her holiday entittement, such employee wilt not be required to  
reimburse the for any excess day(s) taken if such employee pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in  
writing. (Amended 1-1-91)  
in those cases where an employee has not pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in writing  
the employee may elect to (a) reimburse the Company for the wages paid for the excess day(s), or (b) have such  
excess day(s) be deducted from his/her current vacation entitlement, if any, or (c} have such excess day(s) be  
deducted from his/her next year’s holiday entitlement and if none, vacation entitlement. (Added 1-1-91)  
14,15 (Deleted 1-1-94)  
### TITLE 15. EXPENSES  
### 15.1 MOVING EXPENSES  
_An employes who is required ta change his/her residence from one locality to another for Company's  
convenience shail be reimbursed by Company for any expense the employee incurs thereby in moving his/her  
household goods, but no reimbursement shall be made by Company for expenses incurred by an employee in  
connection with a transfer which is made at the employee's request. (Amended 1-1-91}  
### 15.2 TRANSPORTATION  
If it becomes necessary for an employee to perform temporary work away from his/her headquarters,  
Company shall provide transportation or shall reimburse the employee for the cost of using public transportation,  
rovided, however, that if solely for Company's convenience an employee uses his/her personal automobile,  
ompany shail reimburse the employee therefor to the maximum non-taxable vehicie mileage allowance aliowed by  
the IRS., except that an employee covered under Standard Practice 552.3 will continue to receive reimbursement as  
Adee ineren. However, the application of the DMA shall not be reduced without agreement with Union.  
mended 1-1-  
### 15.3 INTERVIEWS  
An employee, who at Company ee is required to travel for the purpose of attending an interview shall be  
reimbursed by Company for all reasonable costs incurred, including travel time during regular work hours on a  
workday, transportation or mileage rates, and board and lodging when authorized in advance. If at all possible,  
interviews and travel time will be scheduled on workdays during regular work hours. (Amended 1-1-80) -  
25  
### GENERAL PHOVISIONS FOR EMPLOYEES  
### ATTENDING COMPANY TRAINING CLASSES  
The provisions of Sections 10.4 and 10.8 shall not apply to an emplo who is temporarily assigned to  
attend training classes at other than the employee's regular headquarters. In such assignments, the following  
provisions of Sections 15.4 through 15.9 shall apply: (Amended 1  
### 15.4 DAILY TRAVEL  
When arrangements are made for an em ployee to travel each day between the employee's living quarters  
and the training location, he/she shall be given an allowance for the time involved which is in excess of the time  
normatly taken in traveling between his/her living quarters and regular headquarters and such compensation shall be  
paid at the employee's regular straight rate of pay. Transportation between living quarters and the training location  
Shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 15.6. (Added 1-1-91)  
### 15.5 TRAVEL AND EXPENSES - NON-COMMUTABLE LOCATION  
(a) if it is impracticable for an employee who attends training classes to return to the employee's reguiar  
headquarters or Wing quarters each day, Company shall, for the duration of the training assignment, provide such  
employee with board and lodging or, at its option, provide such employee with lodging and meal reimbursement as  
provided in Section 16.2(6) or reimbursement for the reasonable cost for meals. (Amended 1-1-88)  
(b} An allowance for reasonable travel time incurred by an employee in traveling between the  
employee's regular headquarters or living quarters and the training location at the beginning and at the end of the  
employee's training assignment shall be authorized. Such allowance shail be computed at the straight rate of pay of  
the employee's classification at the employes temporary and shall also include reimbursement for  
aay eae ai Teey incurred while traveling. shall be in accordance with the provision of Section  
‘6. (Amended 1-1-  
c _ an employee's non Wore such employee remains at the training location, the employee's  
board and lodging on such days shall be provided by Company. If Company does not provide board on such days, it  
shall reimburse the employee for the reasonable costs incurred in obtaining such meals, or at the employee's option,  
provide meal reimbursement as provided in Subsection 16.2(b). (Amended 1-1-88)  
(d an employee elects not to utilize Company-designated board and lodging on the employee's  
non-workdays, including any holiday which immediately precedes or follows the non-workdays, Company  
shall allow such employee, for transportation, the sum of $10.00 per day for each of such days. ifn lieu of su  
allowance, Company may provide transportation arrangements between the training location and the employee's  
living quarters or regular headquarters in accordance with Subsection 15.6(a). if the employee is scheduled to  
the training class for three consecutive weeks or more, transportation allowances under the provisions of Subsection  
15.6(a), (b), or (c} will apply, with the second weekend and every weekend thereafter for the duration of  
such scheduled attendance. (Amended 1-1-88)  
### 15.6 TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS  
. in arranging under the provisions of Section 15.4 and Subsections 15.5{b) and 15.5(d),  
Company, at its option shall:  
(a) provide individual or group transportation by Company vehicle, or  
(b) authorize in advance of the assignment the use of an employee's personal vehicle, or  
(c} provide transportation by public Carrier only, or in combination with other means specified in (a)  
above. (Added 1-1-84) .  
### 15.7 COMMON CARRIER  
An employee who does not utilize the arrangements determined by Company under the provisions of Section  
15.4, Subsection 15.5{a), or Section 15.6 shall be reimbursed for travel expense at the minimum common carrier fare  
or its equivalent. (Added 1-1-84)}  
### 15.8 PERSONAL AUTOMOBILE  
The provisions of Section 15.2 shall apply when an employee is authorized to use his/her personal vehicle as  
a means of transportation under the provisions of Subsection 15.6(b). (Added 1-1-91)  
### 15.9 HOURS IN TRAINING SCHOOL  
The raga hours of work of an employee on the days the employee attends training classes shall be from  
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., with not more than one hour off for lunch between 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. When the lunch  
period is scheduled for less than one hour, adjustment of the hours of work to correspond thereto shail be made at  
the end of the afternoon work period. (Added 1-1-9}  
26  
### 15.10 ENABLING CLAUSE  
_ By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions  
of Section 15.4 through Section 15.9 inclusive. (Added 1-1-84)  
### TITLE 16. MEALS  
16.1. iNTENT  
_ The provisions of this Title shall be interpreted and applied in a practical manner which shall conform to the  
intention of the parties in negotiating with respect to meals, namely, that a comparable substitute shall be provided  
when employees are prevenied from observing their usual and average meal practices or are prevented from eating  
a meal at approximately the usual time therefore.  
### 16.2 MEALS - REIMBURSEMENT AND TIME TAKEN  
_ (a) - Company shall pay the cost of any meal which it is required to provide under this Title, and shall  
consider as hours worked the time necessarily taken to consume such meal, except, however, that when a meal is  
taken at Company following dismissal from work the time allowance therefor shall be one-half hour. If an  
employee who is to a meai under the provisions of this Title Pace to work, during or upon dismissal from work  
does not accept such meal the employee shall nevertheless be entitled to such time allowance of one-haif hour for  
each meal missed and meal reimbursement as provided in (b) below. The foregoing shall not apply to an employee's  
regular junch period. (Amended 1-1-91)  
(b) At the employee's option, Company shall pay an aliowance for any meal which it is required to  
provide in accordance with the following schedule:  
1. Prior to reporting to work:  
i) Meal nearest regular starting time 00  
il) Meai nearest midpoint of regular hours 00  
til) Meal nearest regular quitting time $15.00  
Meal following dismissal from work $15.00  
Meal missed during a work period $15.00  
The allowance referred to above may be paid by separate check and shail be issued on a weekly  
basis. (Amended 1-1-91) .  
{c} "Regular hours, starting time, lunch period and quitting time” on a non-workday are the same as  
those of a workday. (Added 1-1-84)  
### 16.3. MEALS - WORK BEYOND QUITTING TIME  
_ {a) lf Company requires an employee to perform. work for more than one hour beyond regular work  
hours, it shall provide the employee with a meal approximately one hour after regular and with meals at  
intervals thereafter of approximately four hours but not more than five hours for as long as the employee continues  
such work. (Amended 1-1-91)  
{b) A part-time employee who has performed work for more than one hour beyond the employee's  
regularly scheduled work period shail be entitled to a meal and the time in which to eat it at the straight rate of pay, up  
to one-half hour, upon dismissal provided the employee has work for five hours since reporting for work or  
the employee's last meal period. Work performed one hour beyond an eight-hour work period shall be compensated  
in accordance with (a) above. The provisions of Section 16.2 apply to part-time employees. (Amended 1-1-91)  
{c When a part-time employee is called to work in advance of his/her regular starting time, for training  
purposes, the employee's regular and usual meal practices shall prevail. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 16.4 MEALS - OUTSIDE REGULAR HOURS OR NON-WORKDAYS  
(a) When an employee, at the request of the supervisor in charge, is required to perform work on  
non-workdays during the hours established as the employee's work hours on the employee shall observe  
the funch arrangement which prevails on his/her workdays. If such work continues after the employee's regular work  
hours, Company shall provide the employee with a meal in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 16.3({a) or  
(b), whichever is applicable. (Amended 1-1-91)  
{b} lf Company requires an employee to perform work on the employee’s non-workday or workday  
wholly outside of the hours established as work hours on a workday, it shall, if possible, provide the employee with a  
(Arne ee approximately four hours but not more than five hours for as long as such work continues.  
Amended 1-1-9  
27  
(c) lf Company requires an employee to perform work on workdays starting two hours or more before  
regular work hours and such em plo ee continues to work into regular work hours, the employee shall provide for one  
meal on the job and Company provide other meals, as required by the duration of the work period, but if such  
work starts less than two hours before regutar work hours, the usual meal arrangements shall prevail. (Amended  
1-1-91)  
(d) lf in any of the foregoing cases, Company does not give an employee an opportunity to eat a  
breakfast or prepare a lunch before reporting for work, it shall provide such meal. The meals provided for in this  
Section shall be eaten at approximately the usual times therefor and the usual practice relating to tunch period on  
workdays shall prevail. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 16.5 ## MEALS - REIMBURSEMENT AWAY FROM HEADQUARTERS  
(a) Other than as provided in Subsection (0). employees who leave from and retum to their established  
headquarters the same day shall not ba reimbursed for lunch expense.  
_ If an employee who works in an office is temporarily reo to be away from such work location  
and is thereby prevented from following his/her usual lunch arrangement Company shall reimburse the employee for  
lunch expense if the employee had not been given notice of the temporary change prior to the close of the previous  
workday. (Amended 1-1-91  
### TITLE 17. STATUS  
### 17.1 EMPLOYMENT DATE  
_As used in this Agreement, "employrnent date” means the latest date on which an employee began a period  
of Service with Company.  
### 17.2 COMPANY  
As used in this Title, the term “Company’ shall include:  
Pacific Gas and Electric Company  
Standard Pacific Gas Line, Inc.  
Pacific Gas Transmission Company  
Alberta and Southern Gas Company  
Alberta NaturalGas Company  
Pacific Service Employees Association  
Alaska California LNG Company  
Calaska Energy Company  
Eureka Energy Company  
Gas Lines, Inc.  
Natural Gas Corporation  
Pacific Gas Marine Company  
Pacific Gas Terminal Com pan  
Pacific Transmission Supply Company  
### 17.3 SERVICE  
Service is defined as the length of an employee's continuous employment since_hisfher Employment Date  
with Company, a Predecessor Company, any Company or association named in Section 17.2 above, and as provided  
hereafter in Section 17.4. The continuity of an employee's Service shall be deemed to be broken by termination of  
employment for any reason or layotts for lack of work which is in excess of the time provided for in Subsection (2)  
below. The following periods of absence shall count as service for purposes of this Agreement and shall no  
constitute a break in service: (Amended 1-1-88)  
(a) Absences caused by layoff for lack of work so long as such employee has been absent less than  
thirty continuous months. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(b) Absence on a leave of absence authorized by the Company pursuant to the provisions of Title 6  
the employee returns to active work with Company immediately following the leave of absence. (Amended  
(c) Absence because of illness or injury as long as the employee ts entitled to receive sick leave pay or  
is entitled to receive benefits under the provisions of the Voluntary Wage Benefit Plan, a state disability plan, the  
Long-Term Disability Plan, or a Workers' Compensation Law, provided that the employee returns to active work with  
Company immediately following recovery from the illness or injury. (Amended 1-1-91)  
(d Absence for military service or service in the Merchant Marine so long as the employee retums to  
aoe within the period during which the employee's reemployment rights are protected by  
aw. (Amended 1-1-  
(e) Absence for Union business pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.6.  
28  
employee fails to return to active work within the above time limits, for any reason except death or  
disability, Service shall be deemed terminated as of the expiration of the time limit. (Amended 1-1-91)  
_ An employee who is rehired after a break in Service shall be treated as a new employee for all purposes, and  
Service and compensation before the break in Service shall not be recognized for any purpose under any provision of  
this Agreement. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 17.4 ACQUISITIONS  
_ In the ac Lisition of another company, the Service of the employees involved in such acquisition may be  
established by written agreement between Company and Union.  
### 17.5 REGULAR STATUS  
(a) Regional or General Office Departmental employees shall be designated as probationary and  
reguiar, depending on the length of their Service.  
New employees shall be hired as probationary employees at a daily rate of pay not less than the  
minimum wage established for the classification of work to be performed, As long as a probationary employee  
retains such status, the employee shall not acquire any Service, or rights with respect to leave of absence, holidays,  
job bidding and promotion, demotion and layoff, sick leave, vacation, or similar rights and privileges.  
__ {ce} On the completion of such employee's first six months of Service which, notwithstanding the  
provisions of Section 17.3 above, is uninterrupted by absence for more than a cumulative total of 30 days due to (1)  
yoff, {2} sickness or disability, or (3} any other reason, a probationary employee shall be given a status of a reguiar  
employee, a definite job ciassification, and placed on a weekly rate.  
d) The transfer of a probationary employee from one job to another without interruption of work time  
shall not be considered an of such six months’ period of Service.  
{Entire Section Amended 1-1-88)  
### 17.6 PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT  
(a) A part-time employee is any employee whose regularly scheduled workweek is 35 hours or less.  
Regular part-time employees who aitained part-time status on or before December 31, 1990 shall be entitled to  
service and prorated vacations and sick leave based on the ratio of total straighi-time hours worked in a year by  
the employee to the full-time equivalent hours (2,080 hours per calendar year}, unless otherwise noted. Regular  
part-lime employees who attained part-time status on or after January 1, 1991 shall be entitled to service and  
prorated benefits, vacations and sick leave based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year by the  
. to the full-time equivalent hours (2,080 hours per calendar year), unless ctherwise noted. (Amended 1-  
_ {b) A part-time employee who attains regular status or a regular full-time employee who accepts  
part-time status on or after January 1, 1991 shall be eligible to receive the following benefits:  
(1) Group Life Insurance and Long-Term Disability coverage, and Retirement Plan and Savings  
Fund Plan benefits as provided in the Benefit Agreement.  
(2) Medical, Dental and Vision plan coverage as provided in the Medical, Dental and Vision  
Benefit Agreement.  
(3) Vacation allowance as provided in Title 8, but prorated based on the ratio of total  
straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours.  
(4) Sick leave as provided in Title 7, but prorated based on the ratio of straight-time hours  
worked in a year to 2,080 hours. Sick jeave ney only be taken on those days or for those hours that an employee is  
asked or scheduled to work and is unable to work due to illness or non-industrial injury.  
(5) Paid dict when regularly scheduled to work on that day. Such holiday payment shall be  
iN proportion to the amount of time which the employee would have worked on that day if it were not a holiday.  
(Entire Subsection Added 1-1-9171)  
(c) Part-time employment is allowed up to, but not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total full-  
time clerical bargaining unit complement at any given time. /n any one headquarters, the number of part-time  
Se a unit employees cannot exceed the number of full-time clerical bargaining unit employees.  
men -  
d Company to furnish Union a listing of all clerical bargaining unit part-time on a quarterly  
basis. (Adued 1-1-975 Y os  
2g  
   
### 17.7. INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES  
(a) An intermittent employee is one who does not work any set schedule of hours per day or days per  
week, but who is on call to fill in on any schedule on an as-needed basis. During sickness or vacation relief periods,  
however, such employee may be assigned to work the schedule and hours of the absent employee if such an  
assignment cannot be made pursuant to the provisions of Subsection 18.3(a) or any Relief Agreement.  
Intermittent employees will attain reguiar status upan the completion of six months of continuous  
service. Continuous service is detined in Section 17.5 as being “uninterrupted by (1) discharge, {2} resignation, or (3)  
absence for more than a cumulative total of 30 days due to {i) Jayofl, {ii} sickness or industna) disability, or (iti) other  
causes.” [f an employee is off for more than 30 days during a six-month period, a new six-month qualifying period will  
begin upon return to work. (Amended 1-1-91)  
{c) An intermittent employee who attains regular status or a regular employee who accepts intermittent  
status shall be eligible to receive the following benefits: (Amended 1-1-91)  
tt) Group Life insurance and Long-Term Disability coverage, and Retirement Plan and Savings  
Fund Plan benefits as provided in the Benefit Agreement.  
(2) Medical, Dental and Vision plan coverage as provided in the Medical, Dental and Vision  
Benefit Agreement. |  
(3) Vacation allowance as provided in Title 8, but prorated based on the ratio of total  
straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours. |  
(4) Sick leave as provided in Title 7, but prorated based on the ratio of total straight-time hours  
in a year to 2,080 hours. Sick leave may only be taken on those days and for those hours that an employee is asked  
or scheduled to work and is unable to work due to illness or non-industrial injury.  
(5) Paid when regularly scheduled to work on that day. Such holiday payment shall be  
in proportion to the amount of time which the would have worked on that day if it were not a holiday.  
(Entire Subsection Amended 1-1-91)  
d Company to furnish Union a listing of all clerical bargaining unit intermittent employees on a quarierly  
basis, (Added 14-91) Y 9  
### 17.6 OVERTIME  
Part-time and intermittent employees shall receive the overtime rate of pay set forth in Title 12 for hours  
worked in excess of eight hours in a day or 40 hours in a week, or on the sixth or seventh day worked in a week or on  
a holiday.  
### 17.9 PROGRESSIVE WAGE INCREASES  
Part-time and intermittent employees shall receive progressive wage increases (where applicable) upon  
completion of 1,040 hours of work ai the straight-time rate of pay at an established wage step.  
17.10 LIST  
As soon after the end of each calendar year as it is practicable to do so, will furnish Union with a  
list showing the name, social security number, home address, employment date, and ciassilication of each employee  
calculated to the end of such year.  
### 17.11 INFORMATION  
Upon an employee's request, Company shall give such employee any information of record concerning  
his/her status as an employee of Company. Such requested information shall be furnished during normal business  
hours and as soon as practicable, but within 28 calendar days from the date of the request. (Amended 1-71-91)  
### TITLE 18. JOB BIDDING, PROMOTION AND TRANSFER  
18.1. INTENT  
(a) The provisions of this Title shall be interpreted and applied in @ manner consistent with the parties’  
purpose and intent in negotiating the job biddi q. transfer, and promotion procedures contained herein, narnely that  
when empioyees are qualified by knowledge, skill and efficiency and are physically able to perform the duties of a job,  
the employee with the greatest Service shall receive preference in accordance with the sequence of consideration  
outlined in Subsection 18.5(b), and Section 18.8 for an appointment to fill a vacancy, and that Company shall  
endeavor to expedite the filling of jab vacancies. {Amended 1-1-88)  
30  
_ (b) Under this Title a regular employee will be considered for promotion or transfer on the basis of  
service and qualifications. it is the intent of the parties that the establishment of Lines of Progression shall not  
operate to impede an employee's advancement unreasonably. The parties recognize that experience and training in  
the duties of a job which is vacant are important elements to be considered in determining an employee's  
qualifications therefor. In filling a vacancy in a clerical or office classification in the collective bargaining unit described  
in Section 2.1, Company shall observe the provisions of Section 18.6 or Section 18.8 and in so doing shail aie effect  
to the above stated purpose and intent. Any alleged arbitrary or discriminatory disregard of this policy shall be subject  
to review under the grievance procedure. {Amended  
(c) (Deleted 1-1-74)  
(d) A vacancy created by an toa absence on or by reason of industrial disability shall be  
deemed to be a temporary vacancy. (Added -1-88)  
### 18.2 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES AND DEFINITION OF TOP RATE OF PAY  
Title 45 (a) § A probationary employee shail not be entitled to consideration under the provisions of this Title or  
itlé 19.  
{b) (Deleted 1-1-74)  
_.. (c) For bidding from a beginner's classification as noted in Subsection 18.5{e) or from a classification -  
which is considered together with a beginner's classification as noted in Exhibit A, Clerical Line(s) of Progression, any  
employee in such classification who has passed the clerical "Employment Test Battery" will be considered as being at  
the top rate of the next lower classification 30 months after the employee’s employment date. (Amended 1-1-84)  
(d) Except as provided for in 3 above, the definition of the Top Rate of Pay is as defined in Exhibit A,  
Clerical Lines of Progression. {Added 1-1-84  
### 18.3 FiLLING TEMPORARY VACANCIES  
1) |. Whenever a vacancy occurs in any job classification, Company may temporarily fill it by  
assignment. jn making temporary assignments to fill job vacancies, other than vacancies in beginner's  
classifications, Company shall first consider regular full-time employees at the headquarters in which the job vacancy  
exists in the order of their preferential consideration under Section 18.8. The foregoing shall apply whether or not the  
vacancy is one which must be filled on a regular basis.  
(2) The following guidelines shall be applied in the application of Subsection 18.3(a)(1):  
i. To the senior qualified 18.8{a) bidder in the department and headquarters of the  
vacancy; and then (b) bidder in the department and headquarters.  
ii. To the senior qualified 18.8({a} bidder in the headquarters of the vacancy; and then  
(6) bidder in the headquarters.  
til, To the senior qualified 18.8(d) bidder in the department and headquarters of the  
vacancy.  
iv. To the senior qualified 18.8(d) bidder in the headquarters of the vacancy.  
Note: If the vacancy is in a Division Department located at the same headquarters as a  
Department under the Region, Region 18.8(b) or (d) bidders fall into categories i and iv and vice versa.  
(Amended 1-1-91)  
b} lf the vacancy cannot be filled as outlined in (a) above, and if there is no next lower classification in  
the headquarters and the temporary vacancy is for more than one week and the Company still desires to fill the  
temporary vacancy, the senior qualified prebidder within the Bidding Unit residing within a commutable distance (30  
miles or 45 minutes road time) from the headquarters shall be offered the vacancy. (Amended 1-1-91)}  
{c} Exhibit A, of this Agreement, is a listing of the Clerical Lines of Progression for the Regions and  
Departments, setting forth the Lines of Progression for the Classifications as referred to in Title 2, Section 2.1, of this  
Agreement. (Amended 1-1-88)  
(d) Additional Lines of Progression may be established and the existing Lines of Progression may be  
modified or eliminated by agreement between Company and Union. .  
### 18.4 PREBID PROCEDURE  
Any tegular employee of Company may submit a prebid on any existing job classification and headquarters  
ollowing procedure provided the employee  
for which the employee desires consideration in accordance with the  
does not exceed a combined maximum number of 200 prebids and transfers. This maximum will not apply to  
employees subject to the provisions of Title 19. {Amended 6-1-03)}  
31  
(a) Eligibility: To be valid, an prebid must be entitled to preferential consideration under  
the provisions of Section 18.8. A list of existing classifications by headquarters with appropriate prebid numbers is  
available in each headquarters where employees in the bargaining unit requiarly report for work. (Amended 1-1-88)  
{b} Forms: Prebids must be submitted on the form provided by Company or via Bid Express, the  
telephone input system.  
(c) Mail: Prebids may be submitted to Company by either United States or Company mail.  
(d) Timeliness: Company shall not consider any prebid which was received by Company less than  
eight calendar days prior to the date the fully authorized job vacancy report was received and. date stamped by the  
Human Resources Department to fill a jen vacancy in the classification and headquarters on which the prebid was  
made. Only those prebids valid as of the date stamped on the job vacancy report will be considered to fill such  
vacancy. Subsequent prebids may be considered only after that list has been exhausted. At that point where there  
An ona oo on file, Company may fi! the job at discretion under the provisions of Section 18.12.  
mende -  
(e) Date of Receipt: The date of receipt will be the date of the U.S. postmark if legible. If such  
postmark ts illegible or if the prebid is submitted by Company mail, the date of receipt will be the Huan Resources  
_ date stamp. (Amended 6-1-03)  
f) Acknowledgement: will acknowledge receipt of all prebids within 15 calendar days from  
the date of receipt and without rejecting the prebid notify the employee in writing (via e-mail for employees who  
submitted prebids via e-mailjot any known reason which might preciude the employee's filling the classification on  
ormation testing programs which must be  
which the empioyee has submitted a prebid, including in  
ed such programs is available from the  
Information on whether or not an employee has comple  
employee's Human Resources Department. (Amended 6-1-03)  
_ (9) Cancellation of Prebids: Prebids are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until  
such time as the employee changes classification and/or headquarters, or until such time as the employee rejects an  
appointment to the classification and headquarters (and shift, if on which the prebid was made.  
ern pany will notify an employee of the cancellation of employee's prebids as indicated below. Cancellation shall be  
effective as follows:  
1) at the expiration of one year from the date of the prebid and after 15 calendar days' advance  
notice from Company,  
2 upon the employee's declining an appointment to the classification and headquarters on  
which the prebid submitted, (Amended 1-1-88) 7 a  
(3) 30 calendar days after any employee’s change of or classification which does  
not affect his or her status as a prebidder, and after 15 calendar days’ advance notice from Company,  
(4) immediately upon an employee's. change of classification and/or headquarters which affects  
his or her status as a prebidder,  
(5) immediately upon receipt of authorization from an employee to cancel a prebid, or  
_. , 6) upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel prebids  
because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section 19.9,  
with notification to the em ployee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases,  
the employee’s prebid will be given the appropriate 18.8 consideration for 15 calendar days from the time the local  
Human Resources Department notifies employee of such cancellation. (Amended 1-1-88)  
(h) New Jobs at a Headquarters: The Company shall post, on all bulletin boards throughout the  
System, a notice describing all new classifications at existing headquarters or any job at a new headquarters in the  
Company, on the first or fifteenth of any month, as soon as such jobs are authorized to be filled. Such notice shall  
remain posted until the next Directory listing the new classification is posted on the bulletin board, but not fess than 15  
days. If_no prebids are received 18 days after the date shown on the notice, or at the point there are no qualified bids  
on file, Company will have 60 days to fill the vacancy under the provisions of Section 18.12. (Amended 1-1-88}  
An employee whe is the senior, qualified bidder to more than one vacancy, which is currently being  
filled, shall be given the option of accepting the classification and headquarters desired. (Added 1-1-88)  
Prebid Directory: The Company shail identify all prebidable classitications covered under the  
Ph + and Clerical Agreements. Such identification shall include the location, function and prebid number. (Added  
32  
_ {k) | Accepting Job Offer: An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business  
day if s/ne is offered a position that will not result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence.  
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the  
offersd position will result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of  
hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up fo 72 hours for the employee to  
respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be the use of a floating holiday or  
vacation day to assist in determining whether ar not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned  
time frame will cause the bid to forfeit.  
An employee who is scheduled to go on vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with  
his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may  
voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will  
expire after the vacation period is ended. in no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on  
vacation, (Added 6-1-03  
### 18.5 FILLING BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION  
Whenever Company intends io fill a beginner's classification, Company shall fill it in the following sequence:  
105 (a) Transfers made by regular employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section  
_ ____ ff a vacancy in a beginner's classification is not filled in accordance with the provisions of (a) above, it will be  
filled in the following manner:  
(b) Compan shall make unrestricted appointments in filling one-half of the vacancies in beginner's  
oy or one-hali of the vacancies in regularly scheduled jobs at any headquarters. (Amended  
_ (c) In making appointments to fill the remaining one-half of the vacancies in beginner's classifications in  
each Line of Progression or one-half of the vacancies in regularly scheduled part-time jobs in a given headquarters,  
Company shall give preferential consideration to regular physical and clerical employees with at least one year of  
service unless transferring to a part-time with a higher wage rate or from a part-time position to a full-  
time, who have previously requested in writing a transfer to fill such vacancies. An employee who is the senior,  
ualified transferee to more than one vacancy, which ts currently being filled, shalt be given the option of accepting  
the classification and headquarters desired. Preference for appointment shalt be given to the employee in ea  
classification who has the greatest Service in the following sequence: (Amended 6-1-03)  
(1) To such physical and clerical employee in the Bidding Unit where the vacancy exists.  
(Priority 2 status transfer) (Amended 1-1-91)  
(2) To any other such physical or clerical employees. (Priority 3 status transfer)  
The provisions of this Subsection shall be applicable to a beginner’s classification in a Line of Progression at  
a headquarters where a transfer for such vacancy is on file and the number of unrestricted appointments  
under provisions of Subsection 18.5(6) exceeds transfers. .  
All transfer requests must be submitted by United States or Company mail on a form provided by Company.  
Transfer requests may be submitted via Bid Express, the telephone input system. The date of receipt shall be the  
postmark date if delivered by U.S. mail, or Human Resources date stamp if delivered by Company mail or if the U.S.  
stmark is illegible. In no event shall the Company consider any transfer application which was received by  
ompany less than eight calendar days prior to the established contral date. The control date is first established on  
the date the fully authorized personnel requisition is received and date stamped by the Human Resources  
Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and headquarters on which the transfer application was made. If  
the transfer listing is exhausted without a successful candidate, a new contro! date will be established. This new  
control date will be the date of the decline or bypass of the last transfer applicant. Transfers which were not timely  
under the original control date but were received eight days prior to the new control date will then be given  
consideration. If the vacancy cannot then be filled by transfer, it may be filled by unrestricted appointment - no  
transfers on file. (Amended 6-1-03)  
vomeany shall acknowledge receipt of all transfer applications within 15 calendar days from date of  
receipt and, without rejecting such applications, notify in writing (via é-mail for employees who submitted transfers via  
lg an who submits a transfer application of any known reason which might preclude the employee  
from filling the classification on which the employee has submitted a transfer application, including information  
regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an em me has completed  
such programs Is available from the employee’s Human Resources Department. (Amended 61-0,  
() Within ten calendar days after the first of each month, Company shall, within each Bidding Unit or  
Depariment, provide Union information on beginning job vacancies that have been filled the previous month as  
follows: (Amended 1-1-91)  
{1} Name ot individual, social security number, ernployment date and classification.  
(2) Classification of vacancy filled.  
(3) Department and Headquarters of vacancy filled.  
(4) Date vacancy filled.  
(5) Show whether vacancy is regular or part-time.  
(6) Show whether vacancy Is filled by transfer, new hire or new hire-no transfers on file.  
(7) Show whether vacancy resulted from the downgrading of a higher classification or is a newly  
established position at the headquarters.  
en) The following classifications shall be considered as beginner's classifications and shall not be  
subject to the bidding provisions of this Title: (Amended 1-1-97)  
Utility Clerk  
Clerk D  
Machine Operator B  
Data Entry Operator  
Operator II]  
Gas Chart Calculator  
Utility Telephone PBX Operator  
Utility Typist  
Utility Stenographer  
Reprographics Operator B  
Litility Machine Onerator  
Word Processing Operator  
Meter Reader and Utility Cierk  
h od? By written agreement between Company and Union, this list of beginner's classifications may be  
changed.  
_{h) Cancellation of Transfers: Applications for Transfer are valid for a period of one year from the date  
of receipt or until such time as the employee changes classification and/or headquarters, or until such time as the  
employee rejects an appointment to the classification and headquarters on which the transfer application was made.  
Company will notify an employee of the cancellation of applications for transfer as indicated below.  
Cancellations shall be effective as follows:  
(4) al the expiration of one year from the date of the transfer and after 15 calendar days  
advance notice from Company,  
(2) upon the employee's declining an appointment to the classification and headquarters on  
which the transfer was submitted, (Amended 1-1-91)  
(3) . 30 calendar days after any ener. change of headquarters or classification, which does  
not affect his or her priority status as a transfer, and a cale  
fter 1 ndar days advance notice from Company,  
. immediately upon an employee's change of classification and/or headquarters which affects  
his or her priority status as a transfer,  
(5) immediately upon receipt of authorization from an employee to cancel a transfer, or  
(6) upon receipt of authorization from the Human Resources Department to cancel transfer  
because a job is deleted from the directory or an_employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section 18.9  
with natification to the employee the Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases the  
(Amended roa" will be given the appropriate consideration for 15 caiendar days from the date of notification.  
mende -  
_ ()  _ Accepting Job Offer; An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business  
day if s/he is offered a position that will not result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence.  
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the  
offered position will result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of  
hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to  
respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted fhe use of a floating holiday or  
vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned  
time frame will cause the employee's bid to forfeit.  
An employee who is scheduled to go on vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with  
his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. . As an alternative, an employee may  
34  
voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will  
expire after the vacation period is ended, in no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on  
vacation. (Added 6-7-03)  
### 18.6 COMPANY ASSIGNMENT  
ee occurs in a clerical or office classification, Company may fill it at its discretion by  
assignment, provided that the employee who is assigned is within the Line of Progression and the Bidding Area in  
which the vacancy occurs and is either in the same classification as that in which the vacancy occurs or is in a  
classification having an identical scheduled wage rate. Successive vacancies created by such assignment may be  
filled in like manner. If any vacancy is not filled as provided herein, it shall be filled in accordance with the provisions  
of Section 18.8. This cannot result in more than one transfer between headquarters. (Amended 1-1-9141)  
18.7 POSTBIDDING PROCEDURE (Deleted 1-1-88)  
### 18.7 FORFEITURE  
ff an employee is the senior qualified bidder for a job vacancy and tums down a bona fide offer for such  
vacancy, such employee's prebid or transfer application on such vacancy shall be cancelled. Such employee's prebid  
or transfer application to such classification and headquarters need not be considered for a period of six months.  
Exceptions to the aforementioned will be as follows:  
(a) Such employee shall retain rights to consideration for appointment under Section 18.12; and  
(b) An employee who after declining a bona fide offer to a vacancy at a given headquarters attains  
preferential bidding rights under Title 19 shall not be subject to the provisions of this Section. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 18.8 SEQUENCE OF CONSIDERATION  
Whenever a vacancy occurs in a job classification listed in Exhibit F, which the Company intends to fill on a  
regular basis, preferential consideration shall be given in the following sequence to a prebid submitted by any regular  
employee who is in a classification listed in Exhibit F, and those classifications listed in Exhibit A:  
(a) Bids made by employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 19.9.  
(b) | Bids made by regular full-time employees in the Bidding Units and in the Line of Progression in which  
the vacancy exists, who are:  
- in the same classification as defined in Exhibit A, “Clerical Lines of Progression," as that in  
which the job vacancy exists, or  
- in classifications which are higher thereto, or  
- at the top rate of pay of the next lower classification.  
{c) Bids made by requiar employees who are:  
- in the same classification as defined in Exhibit A, "Clerical Lines of Progression," as that in  
which the job vacancy exists, or  
- in classifications which are higher thereto, or  
- at the top rate of pay of the next lower classification.  
(d) Bids made by any regular employee in the physical and clerical bargaining units within the Company.  
(e) Bids made by any regular employee of Company. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-88)  
### 18.9 PREFERENCE BY LENGTH OF SERVICE |  
(a) When employees in the same preferential oe as provided in Section 18,8 are each qualified  
by know edge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability ior appointment to a job, the bid of the employee with  
the greatest Service shall be given preference for appointment. (Amended 1-1-88)  
(b) In the event a conllict arises as to seniority between two (2) or more eee whose seniority date  
is the same, the following will be the sequence of consideration for the purpose of a tie-breaker:  
(1) any prior service as a Company employee shall be taken into consideration and the  
employee whose prior service is greater shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;  
(2} - the employee who first successfully completed all preemployment tests shall be deemed to  
have the greater seniority;  
35  
(3) the employee whose application was first filed with the Company will be deemed to have the  
greater seniority; or  
(4) the ies will determine which employee is deemed to have the greater seniority by a  
mutually agreed upon method of chance, such as a coin flip. (Added 1-1-88)  
(c) in the implementation of Title 19, the parties may agree to a process different than the above.  
(Added 6-17-03)  
### 18.40 TIME LIMITS ON BIDDING  
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Title, shall not give consideration to any application for  
transfer or prebid submitted by an employee who has changed Lines of Progression within the preceding 12 calendar  
months or who has entered a training classification within the preceding 42 calendar months, if the consideration of  
such application for transfer or prebid would result in such retuming to his or her Jast previous Line of  
Progression. Training classification is defined as a classification for which there exists a negotiated training program.  
(Amended 1-1-91}  
### 18.11 BYPASS FOR LACK OF QUALIFICATIONS  
(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Title, Company may reject the bid of any em oe who  
does not possess the knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability required for the job on which the bid  
is made. Additionally, the bid of an employee to a classification having a higher maximum wage rate will be rejected if  
the employes has been under active counseling for poor work performance during the previous 12 months. Active  
counseling for the purpose of this Section is defined as: during the previous twelve month period (1) two or more  
instances in which the employee has received written reminders, (2) a decision-making leave or (3) a demotion with  
cause. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(0) Company may give tests to assist in determining an employee's qualifications. By written  
agreement, Company and Union may adopt testing programs for determining employee's qualifications for promotion,  
n employee's failure to pass such fests in accordance with a Company and Union-approved program shall resuit in  
the rejection of the employee's bid without further consideration. The employee shail have the right to review the  
examination and the correct answers unless there are no alternate versions of the examination, in which event the  
employee can review the examination without the correct answers. Any review shall be conducted with a  
management employee. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 18.12 APPOINTMENT TO UNBID VACANCY  
If Company does not within the time provided in Section 18.4 hereof receive any bids on a job which has  
been authorized for filling, or does not receive a bid from an employee who possesses the qualifications set forth in  
section 18.11, it may in its discretion make a final appointment to such job. (Amended 1-1-88}  
### 18.13 SUPERVISING OR LEAD CLASSIFICATIONS  
In making an appointment to fill a job vacancy in a classification involving personal contact by the employee  
with the public or a classification in which an employee must exercise Supervisory duties, Company shall consider  
bids of employees submitted as herein provided, but may nevertheless make an appointment from among  
the qualified bidders to fil! such vacancy on the basis of ability and personal qualifications.  
### 18.14 NOTIFICATION TO UNION OF BYPASS  
_When an employee is to be appointed to fill a job vacancy in preference to an employee with greater Service,  
as provided in Section 18.8, Company shall notify Union of the decision prior to such appointment. {Amended 1-1-88)  
### 18.15 APPOINTMENT DUE TO URGENT NECESSITY  
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Title, Company by agreement with Union may appoint to fill a job  
vacancy any employee who requests such appointment for reasons of urgent necessity, such as impairment of the  
employee's health or that of a member of the employee's family, or the lack of adequate educational facilities for the  
employee's children in the locality in which the has been employed, provided, however, that an appointment  
shall not be made hereunder to.a classification which has a wage rate higher than the classification of the employee  
who requests the transfer. For consideration under this Section, an employee shat} submit to the Company, by United  
States mail, a letter outlining reasons for such request in accordance with Letter Agreement 91-99. (See Exhibit J -  
Procedures to be Utilized in Connection with Hardship When a vacancy occurs at a location that could  
alleviate the employee's problem, Company and Union may agree in writing to the appointment of the employee to fill  
such vacancy. (Amended 1-1-94}  
### 18.16 EXCHANGE OF HEADQUARTERS  
Company, by written with Union, may consent to an exchange of headquarters between  
in the same classification or classifications naving identical, scheduled wage raies and Line of  
Progression without reference to the foregoing provisions of this Title.  
36  
### 18.17 ENABLING CLAUSE  
this Tit By written agreement between Company and Union, other provisions may be substituted for the provisions of  
is Title,  
### 18.18 POSTING OF JOB AWARDS  
(a) 1-1-88)  
(b) Company shall post biweekly on the bulletin boards in each headquarters within the system a list of  
all job awards made through prebids and through transfers since the last list was posted. Such list will include the job  
vacancy number (where appropriate) and headquarters, the appainted employee's name and Service, and the  
Agreement Section relied upon for the award. (Amended 1-1-88)  
18.19 (Renumbered as Section 13.5)  
### 18.20 QUALIFICATIONS FOR GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES BIDDING/TRANSFERRING TO  
### REGION OA GENERAL OFFICE DEPARTMENT JOBS  
An employee in General Construction must pass the a propriate agreed-to employment test battery before  
the em poyess bid to fill a job vacancy in a Region or General Otfice Department under the provisions of Title 18 will  
e considered.  
Such employee shall be entitled to two opportunities to pass the test referred to above. The second attempt  
to pass such test must be a minimum of three months from the date of the initial attempt. However, where the parties  
have agreed that certain classifications, other than normal entry level, have substantially identical tasks in General  
Construction as in the Regions or General Office Departments, successful performance by an employee in such  
classification will be considered as presumptive evidence of meeting the appropriate agreed'to test requirements.  
Additionally, a former Generat Construction employee who has become a Hegion or General Office Department  
employee at the journeyman level or below must meet the agreed-to test battery to meet the employment  
requirements for Region or General Office Department employees before being promoted to a Working Foreman job  
on other than a temporary basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, successful performance as a temporary Working  
Foreman in a Region or General Office for a cumulative total of six months or more shali be presumptive  
evidence of meeting such requirements. (Amended 1-1-88)  
### 18.21 RIGHTS TO GRIEVANCE  
Any employee aggrieved by Company's application and interpretation of the pe bidding and promotion  
policies established herein may thereon invoke the grievance procedure of this Agreement. (Added 1-1-91)  
### TITLE 19. DEMOTION AND LAYOFF PROCEDURE  
### 19.1 GENERAL RULES (REGULAR EMPLOYEES)  
__ The provisions of Title 19 which are applicable to employees with one continuous year of service in cases  
of displacement, demotion, or layoff due to lack of work or the return of an from leave of absence. for  
business or military service shall be applied in such manner as to give effect to the following: (Amended 1-  
a) Employees shall be given as much notice as practicable of proposed action. Followin  
such notice, and prior to the date of the proposed action, employees to be affected by the procedure due to lack o  
work shall be considered as though they had already been demoted, and, notwithstanding the provisions of Title  
18, have their bids to fill vacancies, in the normal Line of Progression, considered under the provisions of Section  
19.9. Subsection 19.1(b) through Section 19.13 shall apply to employees being displaced or demoted due to lack  
of work or employees being displaced by another employee due to lack of work. (Amended 1-1-00}  
(b) An employee's Service, as defined in Section 17.3 shall be the determining factor in the  
application of this Title.  
(c} Where a vacancy in an appropriate classification exists, the filling of such vacancy in accordance  
with the appropriate provisions of this Title shall be substituted for the displacing of another employee as provided  
herein. (Amended 1-1-00)  
{9) An employee may not elect to displace another employee whose Service is equal to or greater  
than his/her own. An employee may not displace an employee in a classification having a wage rate higher than  
that of his/her own classification except where such classification is considered to be the same in accordance with  
Progression as provided for in Exhibit A or where such classification is a beginners classification.  
mended 1-1-00)  
(@) Employees shall be demoted, displaced, laid off, or effect elections under the provisions of this  
rw on the basis of their regular classification, headquarters and Line of Progression at the time of any such  
action.  
37  
the dul (f) in the application of the Title, an employee shall not be placed in a job unless qualified to perform  
e duties.  
(9) In the of this Title, part-time employees and intermittent employees are considered to  
be a different classification than full-time employees under the same job title. Pari-time employees and  
intermittent employees will not be able to displace full-time employees, regardless of seniority. Part-time  
employees can only displace other part-time employees in the same or lower Classifications within their normal  
Line of Progression. Intermittent employees can only displace other intermittent employees in the same or lower  
classifications within their normal Lines of Progression. (Added 1-1-88)  
(hj No regular full-time employee will be displaced, demoted, or laid off due to the usage of part-time  
employees. Further, at a headquarters where Title 19 is to be implemented, all part-time employees shall be  
affected prior to requiar full-time employees. (Added 1-1-91)  
### 19.2 NOTICES  
_ __ The following notices shall be given in connection with the demotion, displacement and layoff provisions of  
this Title: (Amended  
a) Company will give all employees as much notice as possible of an impending displacement, but in  
no case less than 14 calendar days. Further, ee will give an ernployee who is to be demoted or displaced  
due to lack of work as much notice thereof as possible, but in’no case less than 14 calendar days. (Amended 1-1-  
00)  
(b} All employees will be given an opportunity to notify the Company, through the completion of the  
employee option form, of their preferential order in which Section 19.3 through 19.7 shall be administered. This  
information will be kept on file for use in any displacement action and may be updated by the employee at any time  
un to 2 days orior to the start of a disnlacement action. Preferential consideration shall he qiven to emnloyees in  
the order of. their Service, while Company shall endeavor to give effect to an employee's preference in the order  
he/she has indicated. Length of Service shall be the determining factor where two or more employees express a  
preference for a single location. Company shall notify an employee as to the specific location to which such  
employee will be transferred. (Amended 1-1-00)  
(e) An employee’s failure to give the notice prescribed in Subsection (b) will result in the Gompany  
applying the rae preference sequence: 1) 19.3 to immediate next lower classification; 2) regular sequence of  
consideration of 19.4 to Area, then Unit, then 3) 19.5 to Area and then Unit; 4) 19.6 to Area, then Unit,  
then System; and 5) 19.7 layoff. (Amended 1-1-0Q)  
{d) Any transfer resuling from the application of this Section wifl be made effective at any time after  
the expiration of ten workdays from the giving of ihe notice provided for in Subsection (a). (Amended 1-1-88)  
fe) By agreement between Company and Union, the notice periods in this Section may be extended.  
(Added 7-1-91)  
### 19.3 DEMOTION IN LINE OF PROGRESSION  
When a demotion or displacement is to be made in a classification at a Company headquarters, the  
employee with the least Service in such classification shall be demoted to the next lower classification in the reverse  
order of the normal Line of Progression. An employee shall be demoted on a step by step basis; that is, the  
employee shall first be demoted in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression for his/her classification to the  
next lower classification and, at such step, if the is subject to further demotion, the employee may exercise  
the election provided for in Section 19.4 or Section 19.5, as the case may be. !f successive demotions must be  
made, the same procedure shall apply at each step until the employee is either placed in another job or is laid off. if  
more than one demotion.is to be made, the within procedure shall first be applied to the highest classification to be  
affected, and then to successively lower classifications. {Amended 1-1-91)  
### 19.4 ELECTIONS TO CHANGE HEADQUARTERS OR DEPARTMENT  
4?) Elections to retain department: An employee with three years or more of Service, who is to be  
Camere feo” as provided in Section 19.3 has the following elections within his or her department: -  
menged 1-1-  
{1} may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the  
Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-94  
2) may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the  
Demotion Unit who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended  
(3) may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department in the System  
who has the least Service, (Amended 1-1-00)  
38  
   
3? _ Elections to change department: An employee with three years or more of Service, who is to be  
demoted or displaced as provided in Section 19.3 also has the following elections: (Added 1-1-00)  
_ (1) may elect to displace that employes in the same classification in the Demotion Area who has  
the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-00)  
_ (2) may elect to displace that employee in the same classification in the Demotion Unit who has  
the teast Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-00)  
(3) may elect to displace that employee in the same classification in the System who has the  
least Service. (Amended 1-1-00)  
_(c) An employee with less than three years of Service who is to be demoted or displaced as provided  
in Section 19.3 has the following elections: (Amended 1-1-00)  
(1) may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the  
Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-94)  
. (2) may elect to displace that employee in the same Classification and department within the  
Demotion Unit who has the least Service, or if no such élection is available; {Amended 1-1-94)  
(3} may elect to displace that employee in the same classification within the Demotion Area who  
has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-91)  
(4) may elect to displace that employee in the same classification within the Demotion Unit who  
has the least Service. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(d) An employee who has been demoted or displaced, as provided in Section 19.3, before exercisin  
(Ar tice ON by Subsection (a) hereof, may exercise such elections as if the demotion has not occurred.  
mended 1-1- . |  
49 Under a systemwide application of Title 19, the three year service requirement under Sections  
19.4 and 19.6 will be waived. (Added 1-1-00)  
### 19.5 ELECTION TO RETURN TO PREVIOUS LINE OF PROGRESSION  
(ay lf an employee cannot effect a demotion or displacement in accordance with Section 19.3 and, if in  
addition, such employee does not for any reason effect an election in accordance with Section 19.4, the employee  
may, if such employee has previously worked for at least six months in any other classification in another Line of  
Progression in Company, elect to displace that employee in such classification and Line of Progression in the  
employee's Demotion Area who has the least Service. An employee may exercise an election under the provisions of  
this Section only when it is for the purpose of returning to the Line of Progression in which the employee worked  
immediately prior to entering the Line of Progression from which the election was exercised. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(b) lf an employee cannot effect a demotion or displacement in accordance with Section 19.5{a) above,  
the employee may, if he/she has previously worked for at least six months in any other classification in another Line of  
Progression in Company, elect to displace that employee in such classification and Line of Progression in such  
employee's Demotion Unit who has the least Service. An employee may exercise an election under the provisions of  
this Section only when it is for the purpose of returning to the Line of Progression in which the employee worked  
immediately prior to entering the Line of Progression from which the election was exercised. (Added 1-1-88)  
### 19.6 BUMPING EMPLOYEE IN BEGINNER'S JOB  
(2) If the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in accordance with  
Section 19.3 and, if in addition, such employee does not for any reason effect_an election in accordance with  
Section 19.4 or 19.5, he/she may elect to displace that employee in the Demotion Area, in a beginning  
who has the least Service for which he/she meets the qualifications of the transfer. (Amended 1-1-  
(6) - If the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in Subsection (a)  
hereof, such employee ay aoe to displace that ee in the Demotion Unit in a beginning classification, who  
has the least Service, for which the employee meets the qualifications of a transfer. (Aménded 1-14-00)  
(c) ‘if the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in Subsections (a) and  
(b) hereof, if the employee has been employed three years or more, such employee may elect to displace that  
employee in the Company in a beginning classification, who has the least Service, for which the employee meets  
the quaiifications for a transfer, (Amended 1-1-00)  
### 19.7 LAYOFF  
{a) An employee can elect layoff in lieu of options under 19.3, 19.4, 19,5 or 19.6. Further,  
an employee who does not effect a displacement under any of the elections in Section 19.3, 19.4, 19.5, and 19.6,  
will be laid off; (Amended 1-1-00)  
39  
_{b) An employee who is not affected 4 this Title may elect to take a under this Title, without  
employing applications of Sections 19.1 through 19.6, thereby reducing the number o employees affected. Such  
employee shall have preferential rehire rights as provided under Section 19.13. This option for layoff is restricted  
to employees in impacted classifications and (Added 1-1-00)  
### 19.8 MOVING ALLOWANCE  
(a) When an employee is displaced under the provisions of this Title because of lack of work at  
his/her headquarters, and the employee’s new is beyond commutable distance from his/her  
residence, Com pany shall reimburse the employee for the reasonable costs incurred in connection with moving  
his/her household in a sum nat to exceed $2,400. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(b) Reasonable costs as referenced above shall include and are restricted to; (Amended 1-1-94)  
) Transportation of the employee and his/her immediaie family to ihe new headquarters location  
(one trip only}. (Amended 1-1-94)  
2) Meal and motel expenses for the above incurred on moving day when movers cannot  
complete the move on the same day. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(3} Moving of furniture and household goods to the new residence. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(4) Cost of containers to be used in moving less applicable credits for returned items, such as,  
barrels, wardrobes and boxes. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(5) Reasonable insurance on furniture and household goods. (Amended 1-1-94)  
{6} instaiialion of leievision anlerina or (Amended 1-71-34)  
(7) Piping and wiring costs to accommadate moved appliances. (Amended 1-1-94)  
(8) Reasonable costs of any kind and all non-refundable deposits and/or hook-up fees for water,  
garbage, telephone, gas and electric. {Amended 1-1-94)  
1-94) All expenses not specifically covered above are excluded from payment under this Section. (Amended 1t-  
Although there is no time limit on when the move should occur, notice of intent to move must be  
filed by the employee within 90 days after his/her transfer in order to quality for reimbursement of moving  
expenses outlined above. All requests for reimbursement for moving expenses must be presented together wit  
proper receipts before payment can be granted. (Amended 1-1-00}  
{c) “Beyond commutable distance,” as used above, shail mean a-new headquarters located more  
than 45 minutes or 30 miles from his/her present residence. (Amended 1-1-94)  
() An employee is not required to move within a commutable distance (45 minutes or 30 miles) to  
become eligible for a moving allowance, but must move closer to the new headquarters to qualify, (Added 1-1-00)  
### 19.9 ACCELERATED PROMOTION  
_ __ For the purpose of enabling employees who have been demoted or transferred under the provisions of  
this Title, or to enable employees who have been on or are oan Long-Term Disability status, to return to their former  
status (includes former classification and department and/or any other intermediate classification in the  
department and in the Line of Progression), on an accelerated basis, Company will give preferential consideration  
(A he dean to the bids and transfer applications submitted by such employees on any job vacancy:  
mended 1-1-  
(a) Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees who formerly worked in such job  
classification and headquarters, and who were transferred from such headquarters, demoted from such  
classification, or were placed on Long-Term Disability status from such headquarters. An employee’s bid or  
transfer application shall not be considered under this Subsection if following demotion or transier the employee  
has not exercised each opportunity available to return to a job in his/her former classification and headquarters.  
(Amended +-1-91)  
(b) Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees fisted in Subsection (a) above who  
formerly worked in such job classification and Area. (Added 1-1-00}  
(c) Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees listed in Subsection (a) above who  
formerly worked in such job classification. (Amended 1-1-00)  
Should an employee return to a classification and/or Line of Progression under the provisions of  
section 19.13 other than one from which such employee was demoted, transferred or laid off, such placement  
40  
shall not be considered as voluntarily removing himself/herself from the Line of Progression to which such  
employee would have accelerated promotional rights under the provisions of this Section. (Amended 1-1-00)  
In considering, under Subsections (a), (b) or (c), bids or transfer applications received from two or more  
employees on the same job, Company shail give preferential consideration to the bid or transfer application  
submitted by the employee who has the greatest Service. (Amended 1-1-00)  
An employee who has been demoted or transferred under the provisions of this Title who thereafter  
voluntarily removes him/herself from the Line of Progression to which the employee was previously transierred or  
demoted shall not be given consideration under this Section. (Amended 1-1-91)  
### 19.10 DEMOTION TO UNIT FROM OUTSIDE  
_ a) When by reason of lack of work at the employee's headquarters the Company demotes into a  
classification in the collective bargaining unit a supervisory or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a  
of such unit such employee shall thereupon be entitled to exercise the rights set forth in this Title. (Amended  
1-1-  
(b) In no case shall such demoted employee be placed into a classification that is higher than the  
classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit subject to Subsection 19.1(f). (Added 1-1-88}  
(c) Company shall not demote into the collective bargaining unit a supervisor or other ernployee who  
was hired or left the bargaining unit on 1-14-91 or thereafter. {Added  
### 19.11 NOTICE OF LAYOFF  
When an employee is to be laid off because of lack of work, ope shall give the employee as much  
advance notice thereof as practicable, but in no event shall a regular employee be given less than ten workdays’  
notice of layoff, provided, however, that notice of layoff need not be given to an employee who is employed on a  
probationary or temporary basis. (Amended 1-1-88)  
### 19.12 ENABLER  
By written agreement between the Company and the Union, special provisions may be substituted for the  
provisions of this Title.  
### 19.13 REEMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS  
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a regular employee who has been laid off for  
lack of work pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement for a period not in excess of thirty months and who had one  
or more years of Service at the time of layoff shall be entitled to preferential rehire on the basis of Company Service at  
the time of layort that the laid-off employee keeps the = pay informed in writing of the current mailing  
address and telephone number for contact and the Bidding Unit(s) for which reemployment will be accepted an  
whether the laid off employee wants to be considered for part-time employment. The employee will be notified on the  
proper method for informing the Company. Company shall maintain one address to which the above notice may be  
mailed.  
(b) When a vacancy exists in a:  
{i) beginning classification covered by this Agreement, or;  
i", ‘classification above beginning level that is not filled pursuant to the provisions of Section  
18.8 (a) through (d) of this Agreement, or;  
(ili) part time position that is not filled pursuant to the provisions of Section 18.5 {a} or (c) of this  
Agreement.  
Campany shall provide notice of openings for reemployment as follows:  
1. By calling the last telephone number furnished by the laid-off employee offering reemployment. If  
contacted by telephone, such employee must advise whether or not such employment will be accepted  
within three working days and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days.  
2. lf the laid-off employee, cannot be reached by telephone, Com pany shall forward notice Certified  
eon Receipt Requested of openings for reemployment to the last mailing address as furnished by the laid-off  
employee.  
Within three working days after such notice is received at such mailing address, such laid-off empioyee must  
advise Company whether or not the reemployment offer will be accepted, and the employee must be available for  
work within seven calendar days after so advising Company. If the certified letter is returned undeliverable, such  
employee will be considered terminated, and the next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening.  
41  
3, To expedite rehiring, more than one may be notified of an opening, but priority shall be  
given to employees in the order of Service at the time of layoff. lf no employee remains on the faid-oif list, the  
provisions of Section 18.5 will be invoked.  
4 _ Company shall not be required to contact laid-off employees when the openings for reemployment is  
Sober the Unit(s) and deparimentis) in which such employee has indicated a desire to accept  
reemployment.  
5. ___ lf Company cannot contact the laid-off employee by telephone and if no reply is received  
Company within three working days after notice is received at the employee's mailing address, or if the laid-o  
employee does nat accept reernployment to a full time position or report for work within Ihe time periods provided in  
this Subsection, such employee will be considered terminated, with no further reemployment rights under this Section,  
and the next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening. If the laid-off employee declines an offer of  
part-time employment, such employee will not be considered for reempioyment to future part-time positions.  
6. An employee returning to a classification under the provisions of this Section must possess the  
necessary skills, ability and physical qualifications to perform the duties of the position to which he/she returns.  
i) The Certified Mail Retum Receipt in (b) above shall be retained by the Company for a period of one  
ar after the notice was mailed to the laid-off employee and shall serve as proof of such notice actually being mailed,  
Entire Section Amended 1-1-94)  
### PROVISIONS FOR DEMOTION FOR OTHER THAN LACK OF WORK  
Except for Sections 19.9 and 19.12 the foregoing Sections 19.1 through 19.13 apply only to an employee  
demoted for lack of work. Demotion for any reason other than for lack of work is provided for as follows:  
### 19.14 DEMOTION OF UNIT EMPLOYEE  
An employee who is demoted for any reason other than for lack of work may be placed in a vacancy created  
in such employee's headquarters by the promotion of one or more employees to fill the job which the demoted  
employee vacated. If no such vacancy occurs the employee may be demoted ta a vacancy in a lower classification in  
the Demotion Area in which he/she is employed or if no such vacancy occurs, the employee may be demoted toa  
vacancy in a lower classification in the Region in which he/she is employed. In the application of this Section, an  
employee shall be demoted to a vacancy in the first successively lower classification which the employee is qualified  
to fill. (Amended 1-1-94)  
### 19.15 DEMOTION OF NON-UNIT EMPLOYEE INTO UNIT  
(a) A supervisory or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of the collective  
bargaining unit but who formerly worked in a classification which is in such unit may be demoted for any reason other  
than for lack of work into a previously existing vacancy in such unit within the Demotion Area in which the employee is  
employed or into a vacancy which has been created in any Demotion Area by the concurrent transfer or promotion of  
an employee out of such unit in connection with such demotion. {Amended 1-1-94)  
_ (b) In no case shall such demoted employee be placed inio a classification that is higher than the  
classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit subject to Subsection 19.1(f). (Added 1-1-84)  
_ {c) Company shall not demote into the collective bargaining unit a supervisor or other employee who  
was hired or left the bargaining unit on 1-1-91 or thereafter. (Added 11-94)  
### 19.16 RELOCATION OTHER THAN FOR LACK OF WORK  
When it becomes necessary to relocate individuals, crews, or groups of employees in a headquarters/office  
due to the closing of a reporting headquarters/office ar when such relocation is necessitated by a shift of workload or  
other economic consideration, either of which is expected to be permanent, and where the number and the  
vee of jobs in the Demotion Area will be unchanged, the following procedure shall be followed: (Amended  
-1-  
(a) All employees in a headquarters/Office, including those on leaves of absence, off sick, on vacation,  
“ih disability, shall be considered on the basis of Service, as defined in Section 17.3 in the following  
ubsections. ‘ ;  
(b} Employees with the greater Service shall be given the first opportunity to relocate.  
(c) In the event there are insufficient volunteer(s} for such relocation, the employee(s) with the least  
Service in the affected classifications shall be relocated.  
(d) Each employee in Subsection (c) above shall be given as much notice as possible of the impending  
relocation and such employee may elect either:  
(1) to fill any vacancy in the employee's classification in the Demotion Area in which the  
employee is assigned, notwithstanding Subsection 18.7(a), or; (Amended 1-1-94)  
42  
(2) to fill the vacancy in the employee's classification created at the new location where such job  
is relocated.  
(2) An employee so displaced in Subsections (b) and (c) above shall be given preferential consideration  
under Section 19.9 to return to such employee's former headquarters/office.  
AY, An employee relocated in accordance with Subsections (b) or (c) above shall be entitled, when  
appropriate, to the provisions of Section 19.8.  
(g)_ | Company shall not implement the provisions of this Section for the purpose of subverting Titles 10,  
15, or 18. (Entire Section Amended 1-71-80)  
### 19.17 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES  
_ Gompany shall continue to provide Union with as much notice as practicable of technological changes in its  
business which may have a oe effect on its workforce. In such circumstances, Company and Union shall then  
meet to study and endeavor to adopt appropriate solutions, such as retraining or special placement, as may be  
practicable before Company implements the provisions of Titles 206, 906, and 19 of the Physical and Clerical  
Agreements. (Added 1- 38) .  
### TITLE 20. SAFETY  
20.1 (Deleted 1-1-91)  
### 20.2 PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS  
(a) The safety rules of the state having Jurisdiction shall be observed by the parties hereto. It is  
recognized that the Employer has the exclusive responsibility for providing a safe and healthful workplace.  
(b) Company shall make reasonable provisions for the of employees in the performance of their  
work. Company and Union shail cooperate in promoting the realization of fhe responsibility of the individual employee  
and supervisor with regard to the prevention of accidents.  
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-91)  
### 20.3 PROMULGATION OF ACCIDENT PREVENTION RULES  
(a) Company reserves the right to promulgate reasonable accident prevention rules for employees and  
to insist on the observance of such rules. Except in emergencies, at least 14 days before a new or revised accident  
prevention rule is put into effect and disseminated in writing, Company shall inform Union of the substance of such  
rule for its comments and possible referral to the Health and Safety Committee as provided for in Section 105.3  
below. (Amended 1-1-80)}  
b Nothing in the Accident Prevention Rules is intended to conflict with applicable Federal or State  
health and safety laws, rules and regulations. in the event any applicable Federal or State health or safety rules are  
revised or adopted so that any provisions of the Accident Prevention Rules are in conflict therewith, such rules shall  
be revised as provided in Subsection (a) above.  
### 20.4 HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE  
{a} Members - (1) There shall be established immediately a eye Health and Safety  
Committee ony of not more than ten members, five of whom shall be appointed by Company's Director of  
Industrial Relations trom am its employees and five af whom shall be appointed by Union fram among its  
members. (2} Only a single Health and Safety Committee and Safety Inspection Committee shall be established, but  
Clerical employees may be appointed to such Committees pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 105.3 and  
105.8 of the Physical Agreement. (Amended 61-03)  
(b) Purpose - The purpose of the Committee will be to further promote safe working conditions and  
safety awareness on the part of and other employees; negotiate with respect to additions to or  
revisions of the Accident discuss serious industrial accidents where not prejudicial to the legal  
position of either the employee or Company and report hazardous conditions; adjust grievances relating to any  
provision of this Title; and such other related agenda items as either party may request.  
(¢ Chairman-Secretary - The Chairman and the Secretary of the Committee shall be appointed by the  
Company. The Secretary will meeting agendas and keep the minutes of the meeting which will be distributed  
to the Committee members.  
(d) Meetings - The Committee provided for herein shall meet quarterly on the third Wednesday in the  
months of February, May, August, and November unless it is mutually agreed in writing to schedule any such meeting  
on a different date or to cancel it.  
In addition to the foregoing, the Committee shall also meet on a mutually convenient date at the  
request of the Union's Business Manager or the Company's Director of Industrial Relations. (Amended 6-1-03)  
_{e) | Agenda - An agenda for each meeting shall be prepared by the Secretary and distributed to the  
Committee prior to such meeting. The Committee members, the Company or the Union may submit items for  
discussion to the Secretary at least two weeks prior to any scheduled meeting date. Items so submitted that are  
within the scope of (b) above will be listed on the agenda prepared by the Secretary.  
20.5 TIME  
The time spent in connection with the work of this Committee by Union's Committee members who are  
employees of the Company shall be paid by Company, and Union shall reimburse open far such expenditures in  
accordance with the provisions of the Letter Agreement dated July 6, 1977. (Amended 1-1-80)  
### 20.6 GRIEVANCES  
__ (a) _. Grievances concerning any provision of this Title shall be filed and processed in accordance with the  
rovisions of Title 9--Grievance Procedure -- except that: {1} prior to the discussion of such grievances at the Division  
Local Investigating Committee, the Union shall give Company sufficient notice so that arrangements can be made to  
have a Company Safety Supervisor present at the meeting to act as a consultant to any such Committee; and (2)  
Union's Business may in lieu of Union relerning Such grievances to a Fact Finding Committee or the Review  
Committee as provided Tor in Title 9, upon giving 15 calendar days’ written notice to Company's Director of Industrial  
Relations, request that such grievance be forwarded to the Committee provided for herein for inclusion on the agenda  
of its next quarterly meeting or request that a special meeting be called for the purpose of adjusting such grievance.  
The Committee may, in its discretion, conduct a hearing on any grievance forwarded to it. (3) Adjustment -- The  
decision of a majority of the members of the Committee shail be final and binding on Company, Union, and the  
aggrieved employee, if any, provided that this decision does not in any way add to, disregard, or modify any of the  
provisions of this Agreement. The Committee in its discretion may issue written decisions in a form agreeable to the  
Committee in cases which nave been limely refeired to tne Committee; or it may reter a case back to any tevel of the  
Grievance Procedure provided for in Title 9 of this Agreement, along with written instructions it may wish to issue to  
the Committee to which the case is referred. (Amended 61-03)  
(b)  _ By written agreement, Company and Union may replace or modify the Grievance Procedure  
provided for in Subsection (ay above at any time during the term of this Agreement. (Amended 1-1-80)  
### 20.7 ELECTION OF REMEDY |  
(a) The parties, in their belief that the health and safety of employees is of mutual concern to the  
Company, the Union and the employees, will mutually strive to resolve disputes with respect to health and safety  
issues. To that end Union agrees to raise all health and safety issues with Company before availing itself of any other  
remedy provided by Federal or State law or regulation for the settlement of disputes over health and safety issues.  
Union agrees that it will, in addition, encourage any individual employee in the unit who may that  
he/she has a Complaint with respect toa safety matter to exhaust these remedies before electing any individual  
to Investigate and adjust such matters as may be provided by Federal or State law or regulation. (Amended  
_ (6b) No employee shall be discharged for refusing to work on a job, a piece of equipment, or under  
conditions which present a real and apparent hazard to the employee's life or health. (Amended 1-1-80)  
### 20.8 ELECTRICAL LIMITS  
{a) Except in cases of trouble and emergency work involving immediate hazard to life or property, an  
employee shall not work alone dangerously near energized lines of more than 600 volts.  
(b) Only qualified employees shall take clearance on electrical equipment. (Relocated 1-1-33)  
### 20.9 SAFETY INSPECTION COMMITTEES  
_ Safety Inspection Committees shall continue to function in the prevention of accidents by ascertaining unsafe  
working conditions and recommending measures to be taken for correction thereof. There shall be as many such  
Committees in each Division as may be warranted by the extent of the territory of such Division and the number of  
employees therein, but in no event shall there be less than two such Committees in any Division. Division Managers  
shall make appointments to the Safety Inspection Committees from among nominees selected by Union for their  
respective Divisions. Union shalt annually provide each Division Manager with a list of at least three nominees for  
each Committee; one of such nominees shall be appointed in the spring and another prior to September 7 for a term  
of one and one-half years. Each such Committee shall continue to be composed of three non-supervisory employees  
who shall be selected from different departments or shops, except that, where practical, an additional member shall  
be appointed from a General Construction crew which is headquartered within the physical boundaries of the Division.  
Committee members shall serve for three periodic inspections. The chairman of each such Committee shall be the  
Division employee who has served on said Committee for the two preceding inspection periods. Each Committee  
shall make not less than two inspections annually of Company's properties and activities in its designated territory.  
One of such inspections should be made between January 7? and June 30 of each year and the other of suc  
inspections during the month of September prior to “Fire Week." Members of such inspection Committees shall have  
44  
time off with pay for the purpose of making said inspections and reports and shall be reimbursed by Company for  
expenses incurred therefor. (Amended 1-1-80) ¥ vompany  
### 20.10 WALK-AROUND INSPECTION  
Union may select from among its members, individuals who shall serve as employee representatives in  
walk-around inspections conducted by authorized Federal or State agencies. Union shall keep Company advised as  
to such selectees. Time spent in such inspections by employees shall be considered and compensated for as their  
reguiarly assigned work.  
### 20.11 INDUSTRIAL INJURY REPORT  
{a) In the event of a serious injury or fatal accident involving es employee covered by this Agreement,  
Company shall notify Union as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours after such occurrence. (Added 1-1-88)  
To the extent feasible, Company shall submit a quarterly summary of all lost-time industrial injuries to  
Union. Such summary is to be submitted at least 15 days in advance of regularly scheduled meetings of the  
Company-Union Health and Safety Committee. (Amended 1-1-88)  
### TITLE 21. LABOR-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION  
### 21.1 COMPANY LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS (Title Amended 1-1-00)  
_ Quarterly system joint labor-management meetings shall be regularly scheduled for the purposes of  
improving communications and promoting harmony and cooperation between Company and Union through  
discussions of matters of policy and operation which are of general system concern. The meetings will be scheduled  
for the fourth Wednesday of January, Apni July and October, except that such meetings may be cancelled by mutual  
agreement or by failure to submit agenda items. (Amended 1-1-83)  
(a) AGENDA (Title Amended 1-1-00)  
TO enable each to select representatives knowledgeable in the matters of general system concern, agenda  
items will be Submitted to the eas Director of Industrial Relations together with a list of employees attending  
for Union at least two weeks prior to the date of the next quarterly nes An agenda will be prepared from the  
items Submitted and sent to the Union and Committee members designated by each as soon as possible thereafter.  
A summary of the Committee's discussion shall be prepared by Company and afier Union review shall be distributed  
to each attending Committee member. (Amended 6-71-03)  
(b) REPRESENTATION (Title Amended 1-1-00)  
Company's Director of Industrial Relations and Union shall appoint their respective representatives to attend  
a quarterly meeting, and no restriction is placed on the number each may appoint. However, the number so  
appointed by each should be limited to those having knowledge of the agenda items and restricted in number in such  
a way as to insure an orderly presentation by each. (Amended  
### 21.2 LOCAL/DEPARTMENT LABOR MANAGEMENT MEETING  
_ if the Department or Area Manager is informed by the Union Business Representative serving that area of  
supervision of problems other than those subject to the grievance procedures of the contract concerin  
the affairs and relationship between Union and Company management or involve public affairs matters of a loca  
nature which the Area or Department Manager believes could be solved or improved through joint participative  
discussion, the Manager and Union Business Representative shall mutually arrange for a meeting at a place and time  
which may be during or outside of regular work hours. Such meetings (excluding a continuation of any adjourned  
meeting) shall take place not more often than bimonthly. (Amended 1-71-00)  
### {a) ATTENDEES AND AGENDA  
After notice of a scheduled meeting, the Union may select a reasonable number of its Shop Stewards who  
are knowledgeable in the matters of concern to the Manager to attend the meeting. Ten days prior to the  
date set by the Manager for such meeting, the Union will submit to him/her agenda items together with a list of  
employees Union desires to be in attendance at the meeting. As soon as possible thereafter, an agenda will be  
from the items submitted by the Union and those proposed by Management and sent to Union. (Amended  
### (b) SUMMARY  
Following the meeting, the Area or Department Manager will prepare 4 summary of the items discussed and  
the conclusions reached by the Committee which shall thereafter be distributed to the Union and Company members  
in attendance. (Amended 1-1-00)  
45  
### (c) WITHDRAWAL  
Any Area or Department_may withdraw from participation in the Local Labor-Management Committee upon  
Company's Director of tndustria! Relations giving notice of such intent to Union. (Amended &-1-03)  
### 21.3. PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT COMMITTEES (Title Amended 1-1-00)  
_ (a) Company and Union will establish Joint Committees -on Productivity Enhancement. One such  
committee consisting of four members appointed by Company's Direcior of Industrial Relations and four members  
appointed by Union shall meet at the call of either party. er Productivity Enhancement Committees will be  
established as agreed between Union and Company at other levels of Company's organization. Union members of  
such committees who are employees of Company shail be paid by Company for attendance at mutually agreed-to  
meetings of such committees. (Amended 641-03)  
(bo) A unit may request to participate in an employee involvement efficiency project. Each project will  
have an advisory committee and a steering committee, each consisting of Company and Union representatives.  
Company's Director of Industrial Relations and Union’s Business Manager may agree to guidelines  
and provisions to temporarily amend provisions of the agreement and/or Company policies and procedures  
fexcludineg conflict with any Federal or State Law, Regulation or Executive Order). (See Letter Agreement 87-165-  
GE, Exhibit D.) (Amended 6-1-03)  
### TITLE 22. INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS  
22.1 From time to time during the term of this Agreement, grievances which have been timely filed concerning the  
interpretation and application of the provisions of this ty gg er may be "Suspended" pursuant to the provisions of a  
Letter Agreement cated November 1, 1973, as amended January 7, 1974. Additionally, Company and Union may  
agree to enter into interim negotiations to clarity, modity, add to, or delete from the provisions i this Agreament. This  
He mil pe aay’ ésiablishment of Ad Hoc Negotiating Committees from time to time to resolve such disputes.  
mended 1-1-  
22.2 An Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee established by this Title shat] be composed of members appointed b  
Union and members appointed by Company's Director of industrial Relations. Each party may appoint any number o  
members who they deem best suited to resolve the particular dispute before the Committee. The members  
appointed by each, however, shall be kept io a reasonable number consistent with_the principles of effective  
and each shall appoint a spokesman from amongst those appointed to the Committee. (Amended 6-1-  
22.3. The time spent by Union's Committee members in conjunction with the purpose of this Title and who are  
employees of the Company shall be paid by Company, and Union shall reimburse Company for such expenditures in  
accordance with the provisions of the Letter Agreement dated July 6, 1977..  
22.4 The Committee is authorized to settle the dispute referred to it and issue a final and binding decision thereto  
and to issue Letters of Agreement or Letiers of Inierpretation revising and adding to this Agreement where necessary  
to effectuate the Committee's settlement. Without such agreement, neither Parly may implement any change to this  
Agreement unless specifically provided for in this Agreement. (Amended 1-1-94)  
### TITLE 23, SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS FOR INDUSTRIAL INJURY  
### 23.1 BENEFIT DESCRIBED  
(a) When an employee is absent by reason of injury arising out of and in the course of the employment  
with Gompany which comes within the application of the Workers’ Compensation and Insurance Chapters of the  
State Labor Code, the employee shall be eligible for supplemental benefits for the duration of temporary disability.  
Such benefits shall commence with the first workday of absence immediately following the day of the injury. The  
amount of the supplemental benefit payable shall be 75 percent of an employee's basic weekly wage rate divided Dy  
five, less the sum of any payments to which the employee may be entitled under the Workers' Compensation and  
insurance Chapters of the State Labor Code and benéfits from the Voluntary Wage Benefit Plan which provides  
benefits in_lieu of unemployment compensation disability benefits provided for in the California Unemployment  
insurance Code. (Amended 1-1-00 to be applicable to employees sustaining injuries 1-1-00 or after.)  
&) _ Any supplemental benefits paid during the first week of disability shall be considered as a credit  
against disability compensation which may be retroactively due under provisions of the Workers’ Compensation and  
Insurance Chapiers of the State Labor Code. Suppiemenial benefits paid for the first aggregate 182 days of absence  
shall be considered as a credit which may be applied to any permanent disability settlement. (Amended 1-71-91}  
### 23.2 LUGHT DUTY  
An employee wha is absent by reason of industrial disability may be returned to work and given temporary  
light duties within his/her ability to perform. The duration of any such period of temporary work shall be determined b  
ompany. Employees shall be compensated at the rate of pay of their regular classifications while engaged in suc  
temporary duties. (Amended 1-1-91)  
46  
### TITLE 24. MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY AND MISCELLANEOUS  
### 24.1 MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY  
_ The management of the Company and its business and the direction of its working forces are vested  
exciusively in Company, and this includes, but is not limited to, the following: to direct and supervise the work of its  
employees; to hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend, and discipline or discharge employees for cag cause: to  
plan, direct, and conirol operations; to lay off employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; to  
Introduce new or improved methods or acilities, provided, however, that all of the foregoing shall be subject to the  
provisions of this Agreement, arbitration or Review Committee decisions, or letters of agreement, or memorandums  
of understanding clarifying or interpreting this Agreement. (Relocated from 1.3 on 1-1-80  
### 24.2 BARGAINING UNIT WORK BY SUPERVISORS (Added 1-1-80)  
Supervisors and other employees shal! not perform work usually assigned to employees in IBEW 1245  
bargaining unit classifications except:  
(a) Such assignments are not to be deliberately made for the purpose of reducing the number of  
employees performing work within bargaining unit classifications.  
(b} Historical assignments recognized by the NLRB and those involving continued Company practices.  
with respect to overlapping duties of non-bargaining unit classifications and bargaining unit classifications are to be  
maintained unless otherwise resolved by Company and Union.  
(c) Other than the above (a) and (b), such work assignments should be timited to work performed in:  
{1} Emergency situations.  
(2) Training of employees and demonstrating work methods.  
{3} incidental assistance and de minimis assignments. (Added 1-1-80)  
### 24.3 ANTI-ABROGATION CLAUSE  
Company shail not by reason of the execution of this Agreement:  
_ (a) . abrogate or reduce the scope of any present plan or rule beneficial to employees, such as its  
vacation and sick leave policies or its retirement plan, or  
(b) reduce the wage rate of any employee covered hereby, or change the conditions of employment of  
any such employee to the employee's disadvantage. The foregoing Jimitations shall not limit Company in making a  
an 2 oN of employment if such change has been negotiated and agreed to by Company and Union.  
mended 1-1-  
### 24.4 CLASSIFICATIONS WITH SUPERVISORY DUTIES  
In accordance with decisions of the National Labor Relations Board and Agreements between Company and  
Union, there are certain classifications in the bargaining unit which have supervisory duties. Company may at its  
discretion establish classifications which are supervisory within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act.  
Upon agreement by Company and Union, Company may eliminate certain classifications which are within the  
40} but have supervisory responsibilities, including the elimination of such classifications from Exhibit F.  
2 a  
### 24.5 CONTRACTING  
It is recognized that the Company has the right to have work done by outside agencies. In the exercise of  
such right Company will not make a contract with any com pany or individual for the of dispensing with the  
oe employees who are covered by the Clerical Bargaining Agreement. The following guidelines will be  
observed:  
(a) _ Where temporary services are required for a limited period of time, such as an emergency situation  
or for a specific special function.  
(b) Where the regular employees at the headquarters are either not available or normal workloads  
prevent them from doing the work during the time of the emergency or special function situation.  
{c The Union Business Representative in the area should, if possible, be informed of Company's  
intentions before the agency employees commence work. (Added 1-1-80).  
a7  
### TITLE 25. TERM  
25.1 TERM  
This Agreement, having taken effect as of at 1, 1953, and thereafter been amended from time to  
time shail continue in effect as further amended herein tor the term of June 7, 2003 through December 31, 2007, and  
shall continue thereafter from year to year unless written notice of termination shall be given by either party to the  
other 60 prior to the end of the then current term, The Company and Union acknowledge that, in the event the  
Company forms new Affiliated Acquiring Entities that are bound: by this Agreement, this Agreement and any  
amendments thereto shall remain in effect unti! December 31, 2007, or until separate agreements are negotiated  
to apply to each new Affiliated Acquiring Entity, whichever is earler. Further, upon either party's request, any new  
‘An ae sooo! Entity and the Union shail engage in good faith negotiations to develop separate agreements.  
ende .  
### 25.2 AMENDMENT - NOTICE  
Except as provided otherwise herein, if sither party desires to amend this Agreement, it shall give notice  
ihereof to the other party 120 days prior to the end of the then current term, in which event the parties shall  
commence negotiations on any proposed amendments as soon as practicable after such notice has been given.  
Failure of the parties to agree on such proposed amendment shall not cause termination of this Agreement unless  
either party has given notice of termination as provided in Section 25.1.  
### 25.3 GENERAL WAGE INCREASES  
(a) Effective June f, 2003, the basic wage rates established for June 7, 2003 in Exhibit F of this  
Agreement shall be increased by four percent. (Amended 6-1-03)  
Eftective January 1, 2004, the basic wage rates established for January 1, 2004 in Exhibit F of  
this Agreement shall be increased by four percent. (Amended 6-1-03)  
{c) Effective January 1, 2005, the basic wage rates established for January 1, 2005 in Exhibit F af this  
Agreement shail be increased by four percent. (Amended 61-03)  
(a) (Deleted 4-1-97)  
(e) Either party may re-open this Agreement with respect to the subject of wages by giving notice of  
such ré-apening to the other party 60 days prior to January 1, 2006 and January 1, 2007. (Added 6-1-03)  
### 25.4 APPROPRIATE UNIT CHANGE  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 25.1, either party may give to the other 30 days' written notice of  
the proposed amendment of this Agreement in the event that an administrative or judicial tribunal having jurisdiction  
to do so shall determine that the unit described in Section 2.1 hereof is inappropriate for the purpose of collective  
bargaining.  
### 25.6 CONFLICT OF LAW  
_ Any provision of this Agreement which may be in conflict with any Federal or State law, regulation or  
executive order shall be suspended and inoperative to the extent of and for the duration of Such conflict.  
_ In the event any provision of this Agreement is suspended or declared inoperative by reason of the operation  
of this Section, the parties shall meet within 30 days to negotiate a substitute provision which will, as nearly as  
possible, reflect the intent of the suspended clause in a Jawful manner, (Added 1-1-84)}  
### 25.6 CANCELLATION DUE TO BREACH  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 25.1, either party may forthwith terminate this Agreement in the  
event that the other breaches its obligation as set forth in Section 3.2 hereof. Notice of termination shall be given in  
accordance with the terms of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as last amended.  
### 25.7 RECISIONS  
This Agreement cancels and supersedes that certain agreement entered into on August 21 1947 by  
Company and Union, and all amendments, continuations and thereof, or that agreement dated September  
1, 1950, between Locals 1245 and 1324, |.B.E.W., and all amendments and extensions thereof.  
48  
### EXHIBITS  
The following amended Exhibits to the Agreement of 1953 are attached hereto and made a part thereof:  
Exhibit *A” - Clerical Lines of Progression  
Exhibit “8” - Educational Assistance  
Exhibit “C" - Deleted 1-1-00)  
Exhibit "D" . etter Agreement referred to in Section 21.8  
hibit "F* . Schedule of Wage Rates  
Exhibit "G" . Classification of Employees subject to provisions of Section 10.6  
Exhibit "H" : Utilization of Intermittent Employees  
Exhibit "I" Addendum to Title 19. Demotion and Layoff Procedure  
Exhibit "J" - Letter Agreement 91-99 Appointment Due to Urgent Necessity  
Exhibit "K" Letter Agreement 93-42 Severance Agreement  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives_have caused these  
presents to be executed this__ @7 dayof_ Octoper  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY  
1 }  
### By PN UA VARY \  
  
And by  
le  
ts Director anaiGnief Negotiator of Industrial Relations  
### LOCAL UNION No. 1245 OF INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRIQAL WORKERS (Affiliated with the  
American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations)  
### » BHW  
ts Presiaen  
And » tian  
5 Busi nager  
Edwin D. Hill, International President, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
### APPROVED:  
49  
### EXHIBIT A  
### LINES OF PROGRESSION  
### FOR THE CLERICAL AGREEMENT  
REVISED December 31, 2001  
### REPLACES BOOK DATED January 1, 1997  
### CUSTOMER SERVICES LINE OF PROGRESSION  
The following tables are for use in filling vacancies in the Division Customer Services departments. This line of progression includes such  
general functions as telephone switchboard operations, mail distribution and collection, division files, reproduction, stationery, accounting, office  
services, new business, meter reading, meter tag posting, marketing, rate analysis, telephone and counter service, credit, cashiering and  
collection in Division, District, and Local Customer Services. The tables should be used in cannection with Section 18.8 of the Clerical  
Agreement dated July 1, 1953, as amended.  
Jo use these tables, find the vacant classification. Below the vacant classification in the left-hand column are listed the next lower  
classifications. Below the vacant classification in the right-hand column are listed classifications which are the same as, or higher than, the  
vacant classification, The classifications listed as next lower, the same as, or higher than, the vacant classification are followed by a hyphen and  
a label which describes the general function of the clerical classifications which are so considered.  
Vacancies in combination classifications (¢.g., Service Representative and Meter Reader) will be filled on the basis of the primary  
classification (the first ciassification in the Title) taking into account the qualifications required for the secondary classification. Consideration for  
promotion of employees who hold such classifications shall be based upon the primary classification.  
Example 1: If a vacancy exists in a Senior Service Representative | classification in the Customer Services Department, consideration  
under Subsection 18.8(b) and 18.8(c) of ihe Agreement in order of employment date shall be given to employees classified as Service  
Representative, the equivalent, or higher in the Customer Services Line of Progression.  
Temporary Assignments  
Temporary upgrades shall take place within the department and headquarters in which the temporary vacancy exists provided there is a  
next lower classification to the vacant classification in such department and headquarters. Temporary upgrades into classifications where there  
is no next lower classification to the vacancy within the department and headquarters shall be made in accordance with the lines of progression.  
Example 2: If a temporary vacancy exists in a Senior Service Representative | classification in the Customer Services Department,  
consideration in order of employment date shall be given to employees classified as Service Representative or equivaient in the Customer  
Services Department.  
Typist Designation:  
Criteria: A typist position will normally perform typing 20 percent of the time during a workweek. The typing assignments should generally  
require more than simple typing skills such as form completion.  
The above criteria will be waived if there is a demonstrated need for a typist at an office.  
of  
### CUSTOMER SERVICES LINES OF PROGRESSION  
### 2641 SENIOR SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE II  
2765 SENIOR SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE-TYPIST fl (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
Next Lower me or Higher Classification  
2650 Senior Service Representative | 2641 Senior Service Representative tl  
2811 Senior Service Representative-Typist | 2765 Senior Service Representative-Typist Il  
### 2650 SENIOR SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE |  
2811 SENIOR SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE-TYPIST 1 (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
Next Lower Classifications Same or Higher Classifications  
2660 Service Representative 2641 Senior Service Representative Il  
2663 Service Representative-Steno - (PIO) 2765 Senior Service Representative-Typist 1  
2666 Service Representative-Typist 2650 Senior Service Representative |  
2760 Credit Representative . 2811 Senior Service Representative-Typist |  
2770 Credit Representative and Meter Reader  
2769 Service Representative and Meter Reader  
### 2760 CREDIT REPRESENTATIVE  
### 2770 CREDIT REPRESENTATIVE AND METER READER  
Next Lower Classification  
   
2660 Service Representative 2641 Senior Service Representative II  
2663 Service Representative-Steno - (PIO) ' 2765 Senior Service Representative-Typist Il  
2666 Service Representative-T ypist 2650 Senior Service Representative |  
2772 Meter Reader and Utility Clerk 2811 Senior Service Representative-Typist |  
2769 Service Representative and Meter Reader 2760 Credit Representative  
2770 Credit Representative and Meter Reader  
### 2660 SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE  
2663 SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE-STENO (80 w.p.m. shorthand and 50 w.p.m. typing required) - (P/O)  
2666 SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE-TYPIST (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
### 2769 SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE AND METER READER  
§2  
Next Lower Classifications _ Same or Higher Classifications  
   
* 2675 Utility Clerk - Customer Services 2641 Senior Service Representative Il  
*" 2679 Utility Clerk-Steno-Customer Services - (P/Q) 2765 Senior Service Representative-Typist Il  
“ 2683 Utility Clerk-Typist-Customer Services 2650 Senior Service Representative |  
2731 Word Processing Operator - Customer Services 2841 Senior Service Representative-Typist |  
2772 Meter Reader and Utility Clerk 2660 Service Representative  
2663 Service Representative-Steno - (P/O)  
2666 Service Representative-Typist  
2760 Credit Representative  
2770 Credit Representative and Meter Reader  
2769 Service Representative and Meter Reader  
*Includes employees at Clerk D rate of pay as per 1980 General Negotiations.  
### 2772 METER READER AND UTILITY CLERK  
A Meter Reader is an employee assigned a route of meter locations. Each meter location is visited, the meter number checked and meter  
dials read and recorded. Any unusual or abnormal conditions observed are reported. Mefer Readers may perform electric change of party  
reads, gas change of party reads (non-entry, gas found on} and RGSO (reads only) and special meter reads in conjunction with or in lieu of  
reading an assigned route with the exception of Class il adjustment reads. Completed work is submitted and other related work is  
performed as assigned. The following conditions are to be observed when assigning other related work: (a) Training is provided. (b) Meter  
Readers can safely perform their job duties. (c) Meter Readers will not be routinely assigned work which falls within the job description of  
another classification, and when additional work is assigned, route sizes are taken into account, (d) It is part of a Meter Reader's job to  
return to accounts missed by such Meter Reader #f time permits. (e) Whenever a Meter Reader is given Senior Meter Reader job duties  
they will be paid at the higher rate for a minimum of two {2) hours. (f) If Union believes that additional “other related work" merits an  
inequity adjustment to the Meter Reader wage rate, Company agrees to negotiate on an interim basis. Electric change of party reads, gas  
change of party reads (non-entry, gas found on} and RGSO (reads only), will not-be worked on overtime by Meter Readers until the Title  
208 and 212 lists have been exhausted for Reserve Gas Service Representatives, Gas Service Representatives, Service Mechanics and  
Troublemen classifications. The Meter Reader may do this work on overtime on a ds minimis basis, for example, where overtime  
assignments involve an extension of a regular work day to complete work same day.  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION  
### 2675 UTILITY CLERK - CUSTOMER SERVICES  
### 2679 UTILITY CLERK STENO - CUSTOMER SERVICES - (P/O)  
2683 UTILITY CLERK-TYPIST - CUSTOMER SERVICES (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
2731 WORD PROCESSING OPERATOR - CUSTOMER SERVICES (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
### 2772 METER READER AND UTILITY CLERK  
See also Note 5(a), Page 73.  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATIONS  
53  
### PHYSICAL JOBS TO WHICH CLERICAL EMPLOYEES  
### IN THE CUSTOMER SERVICES LINE OF PROGRESSION ARE VALID  
### PRE-BIDDERS UNDER SECTION 205.7 OF THE PHYSICAL AGREEMENT  
### GAS SERVICE DEPARTMENT  
### 2782 SENIOR METER READER"  
The duties of the Senior Meter Reader position, which are subject to the grievance procedure, include the following: (a) Trainin a and field as assigned).  
Electronic meter reading device training other than training by General Office project teams is within the duties of the Senior Meter Reader classification. (b)  
Access arrangements (office and field; pesticide access; meter reading plastic card appointments and reads}. In conjunction with access arrangements, it is  
proper to have a Senior Meter Reader pull electric meters to make visual inspection for irregularities and seal the meter with a security locking ring or other  
appropriate sealing devices. {c) Clerical duties as assigned and field duties as assigned for rerouting and reserialization (final decision reserved to management;  
includes new account numbers and individual route pet d) Reading any meter route when deemed necessary. (e) Perform electric change of  
reads, gas change of ty reads (non-entry, gas found on), RGSO (reads only), and electric meter shut off single phase. (f} Maintain records and post standard  
reports. (g) Other related bargaining unit work as assigned. (h) Plan and organize Meter Reader work assignments as assigned. () Field verification of energy  
cost inquiries and possible méter reading errors (reread); no customer contact except to explain how to read meter. (j} Type f, i and it audits. Senior Meter  
Readers will not make recommendations for disciplinary action based on the results of the audits. (k) Personal computer work associated with electronic meter  
reading to the extent that such work encompasses Senior Meter Reader functions as set forth in this Exhibit, (i A Senior Meter Reader shall have the personal  
of leadership ability. (m} Electric change of party reads, gas change of party reads freee qas ound on), RGSO (reads only), and electric meter  
shut off single phase will not be worked on overtime by a Senior Meter Reader until the Title 208 and 212 lists have been exhausted for Reserve Gas Service  
Representatives, Gas Service Representatives, Service Mechanics and Troublemen classifications. The Senior Meter Reader may do this work on overtime on a  
de minimis basis, for example, where overtime assignments involve an extension of a regular work day to complete work same day.  
Next Lower Classifications ame or Higher Classifications  
2785 Meter Reader | Senior Meter Reader  
2772 Meter Reader and Utility Clerk | 2770 Credit Representative and Meter Reader  
2769 Service Representative and Meter Header  
‘Effective January 1, 2000, Sr. Meter Reader and Meter Reader were moved from the clerical bargaining unit to the physical bargaining unit.  
### OPERATING LINES OF PROGRESSION  
The following tables are for use in filling vacancies in the Region and General Office Operating Departments: (This line of progression may  
include such general functions as telephone switchboard operations, mail distribution and collection, Region or Division files, reproduction,  
stationery, accounting, office services, and new business, including administration and preparation of agreements and contracts.)  
Region and Division Electric Superintendent's Office, Engineering, District and Local Office Operations as well as specialty Departments  
such as Underground, Operating, Hydro, Overhead, and Water;  
Region and Division Gas Office, Engineering, District and Local Office Operations as well as speciality departments such  
as Transmission and Regulation, Service and Distribution;  
   
   
Region and Division General Services, Building, Land, Transportation, and Materials (including General Office Garage and Materials  
Section within San Francisco Division);  
Materials Distribution Depariment including the affice, shop and warehouse sections, and the Decoto Pipe Yard and Plant;  
Gas System Maintenance/Gas System Operations Department, including the field office operations;  
Design Drafting Department, including such general functions as Records, Drawing Control, Index Files, Vault, Microfitm, Varitype, MTST  
and Administrative; and  
Reprographics Section of Engineering Services including production and office units.  
Physical jobs to which Clerical Employees are valid pre-bidders under Section 18.8 of the Clerical Agreement and Section 205.7 of tne  
Physical Agreement.  
The tables should be used in connection with Section 18.8 of the Clerical Agreement dated July 1, 1953, as amended.  
To use these tables, find the vacant classification. Below the vacant classification in the left-hand column are listed the next lower classifications.  
Below the vacant classification in the right-hand calumn are listed classifications which are the same as, or higher than, the vacant classification.  
The classifications listed as next lower, the same as, or higher than, the vacant classification are followed by a hyphen and a label which  
describes the general function of the clerical classifications which are so considered.  
Example 1: If a vacancy exists in a Senior Operating Clerk | classification in the department, consideration under Subsections #8.8{b) and  
18,8(c) of the agreement in order of employment date shall be given to employees classified as Operating Clerk, the equivalent, or higher in the  
Operating Line of Progression.  
Temporary Assignments  
Temporary upgrades shall take place within the department and headquarters in which the temporary vacancy exists provided there is a  
next lower classification to the vacant classification in such department and headquarters. Temporary upgrades inte classifications where there  
is no next lower classification to the vacancy within the department and headquarters shail be made in accordance with the lines of progression.  
Example 2: {f a temporary vacancy exists in a Senior Operating Clerk | classification, consideration in order of employment date shall be  
given to employees classified as Operaling Clerk in the office depariment and  
The transfer rights of employees of the Vice President and Controller's Organization and the General Office Operating Clerical {including  
the Design Drafting Clerical Unit, Reprographics Cierical Unit, and General Office Building Department) have been expanded to provide  
Subsection 18.5{c)(1) rights between these groups, effective 1-31-80.  
Typist Designation:  
Criteria: A typist position will normally perform typing 20 percent of the time during a workweek. The typing assignments should generally  
require more than simple typing skills such as form completion.  
59  
The above criteria wilt be waived if there is a demonstrated need for a typist at an office.  
### | OPERATING LINES OF PROGRESSION  
### 2723 SENIOR OPERATING CLERK II  
2646 SENIOR OPERATING CLERK-TYPIST II (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
Next Lower Classifications same or Higher Classifications  
2789 Senior Operating Clerk | 2723 Senior Operating Clerk 1!  
2654 Senior Operating Clerk-Steno | - (PIO) 2646 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist II  
2655 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist t 0243 Senior Field Clerk - G.C. .  
0250 Foreman’s Clerk 0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
0247 Field Clerk - Water 0290 Senior Plant Clerk  
0254 Utility Foreman’s Clerk 0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
4906 Reprographics Job Coordinator 0253 Foreman’s Clerk  
### 2789 SENIOR OPERATING CLERK f  
2654 SENIOR OPERATING CLERK-STENO | (80 w.p.m. shorthand and 50 w.p.m. typing required) - (PIO)  
2655 SENIOR OPERATING CLERK-TYPIST | (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
Next Lower Classifications Same or Higher Classification  
2662 Operating Clerk . 2723 Senior Operating Clerk tI  
2664 Operating Clerk-Steno - (P/O) 2646 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist Ii  
2667 Operating Clerk-Typist 2789 Senior Operating Clerk |  
0252 Assistant Foreman’s Clerk _ 2654 Senior Operating Clerk-Steno | - (P/O)  
0277 Parts Clerk 2655 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist |  
2703 E&P Operating Clerk - {PIO) 0250 Foreman’s Clerk  
"0524 Fieldperson 0253 Foreman’s Clerk  
0254 Utility Foreman’s Clerk  
0247 Field Clerk-Water  
0243 Sentor Field Clerk - G.C.  
0246 First Field Clerk - G.C.  
0290 Senior Plant Clerk -  
0293 First Plant Clerk  
0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
0264 First Hydro Clerk  
0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
0313 First Shop Clerk - G.C.  
4906 Reprographics Job Coordinator  
0266 First Hydro Clerk - Helms  
"It reclassified from 0240 Field Clerk on January 1, 1988 has 18.8{b) or 18.8(c} bid status.  
36  
   
### 2662 OPERATING CLERK  
2664 OPERATING CLERK-STENO (80 w.p.m. shorthand and 50 w.p.m. typing required) - (P/O}  
2667 OPERATING CLERK-TYPIST (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
### 2703 E&P OPERATING CLERK - (PIO)  
Next Lower Classifications Same or Higher Classifications  
* 2676 Utility Clerk - Operating 2723 Senior Operating Clerk tl  
* 2684 Utility Clerk-Typist - Operating 2646 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist Il  
2732 Word Processing Operator - Operating 2654 Senior Operating Clerk-Steno | - (P/O)  
** 0053 Clerical Assistant 2789 Senior Operating Clerk |  
2655 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist |  
2662 Operating Clerk  
2664 Operating Clerk-Steno - (PID)  
2667 Operating Clerk-Typist  
2703 E&P Operating Clerk - (PIO)  
0250 Foreman's Clerk  
0253 Foreman's Clerk  
0254 Utility Foreman's Clerk  
0252 Assistant Foremian's Clerk  
0247 Field Clerk - Water  
0277 Parts Clerk  
0243 Senior Field Clerk - G.C.  
0246 First Field Clerk - G.C.  
4906 Reprographics Job Coordinator  
0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
0264 First Hydro Clerk  
0265 Routine Hydro Clerk  
0290 Senior Plant Clerk  
0293 First Plant Clerk  
0294 Routine Plant Clerk  
0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
0313 First Shop Clerk -G.C.  
0314 Routine Shop Clerk - G.C,  
0275 Partsman -G.C.  
0524 Fieldperson  
0266 First Hydro Clerk - Helms  
*Includes employees at Cierk D rate of pay as per 1980 General Negotiations.  
**Employees in the classification of Clerical Assistant shall be considered under Subsection 18.8(c} of the Clerical Agresment for bidding to  
Accounting Clerk in the Vice President and Controller's Organization in the Payroll and Accounts Payable sections and to Operating Clerk  
positions in the Operating Line of Progression in the Regions.  
57  
   
“*If reclassified from 0240 Field Clerk on January 1, 1988 has 18.8(6) or 18.8{c) bid status.  
### 2676 UTILITY CLERK - OPERATING |  
2684 UTILITY CLERK-TYPIST - OPERATING (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
2732 WORD PROCESSING OPERATOR - OPERATING (55 w.p.m. typing required}  
See also Note 5(a), Page 73. |  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATIONS  
### GENERAL OFFICE ENGINEERING SERVICES DEPARTMENT  
### REPROGRAPHICS SECTION PRODUCTION UNIT  
### PRODUCTION UNIT  
### 7003 SENIOR REPROGRAPHICS OPERATOR (LEAD JOB)*  
Responsible for training, performing lead functions, and the performance of all duties of a Reprographics Operator and related clerical  
duties. .  
Next Lower Classification Same or Higher Classification  
7004 Reprographics Operator A* 7003 Senior Reprographics Operator  
### 7004 REPROGRAPHICS OPERATOR A*  
Next Lower Classification Sa igher Classifications  
7005 Reprographics Operator B 7003 Senior Reprographics Operator  
7004 Reprographics Operator A  
* With training and/or previous experience.  
“* Progression to Reprographics Operator A is automatic when qualifications have been met.  
### 7005 REPROGRAPHICS OPERATOR B  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION  
Required passing Guilford-Zimmerman Mechanical Knowledge Test with at least 17 points and the Personnel Research Institute Name  
Comparison Test with at least 70 points. The Guilford-Zimmerman test is no longer given. A replacement test will require agreement  
between the Company and Union for positions filled after January 1, 2002.  
58  
4906  
A transfer application from a Clerical employee in the Reprographics Section will be given priority “1” status under the job bidding system  
when transferring fo a Reprographics Operator B. Priority °1” transfer applications receive preference over all other transfers and are  
treated as a bid under the provisions of Subsections 18.8(a) or (6), as appropriate.  
### ADMINISTRATION UNIT  
### REPROGRAPHICS JOB COORDINATOR  
Next Lower Classifications Same or Higher Classification  
2662 Operating Clerk 4906 Reprographics Job Coordinator  
7003 Senior Reprographics Operator  
See pages 57-58 for Operating and Utility Clerks in the Reprographics Section.  
### PHYSICAL JOBS TO WHICH CLERICAL EMPLOYEES  
### IN THE OPERATING LINE OF PROGRESSION  
### ARE VALID PRE-BIDDERS UNDER SECTION 205.7 OF THE PHYSICAL AGREEMENT  
### DIVISION ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT OFFICE  
   
Q254  
0253  
0250  
### UTILITY FOREMAN'S CLERK  
Job duties vary by headquarters: bidding rights same as Foreman's Clerk.  
FOREMAN’S CLERK - if directing the work of more than two Assistant Foreman’s Clerks.  
Line of Progression same as Foreman’s Clerk,  
### FOREMAN'S CLERK  
An employee whose background and experience are such that an employee has a comprehensive knowledge of the operation and  
procedures of a General Foreman's or Assistant Supervisor's office and is engaged ir: performing clerical work and assisting in the  
administrative work of such office. This work includes such duties as coordinating various functions to facilitate the completion of jobs,  
assigning jobs fo crews, receiving and dispatching customers’ complaints or switching orders, preparing reports, processing time cards,  
work orders and GM's for the crews or for accounting purposes, and maintaining office files: and records. May direct the work of one or two  
Assistant Foreman's Clerks.  
Next Lower Classifications Same or Higher Classifications  
0252 Assistant Foreman's Clerk 0243 Senior Field Clerk -G.C.  
0458 Field Clerk - Electric T&D 0246 First Field Clerk - G.C.  
og  
2662 Operating Clerk  
2664 Operating Clerk-Steno (P/O}  
2667 Operating Clerk-Typist  
0456 T&D Driver  
### 0252 ASSISTANT FOREMAN'S CLERK  
0250  
0253  
0254  
0310  
0313  
2723  
2646  
2789  
2654  
2655  
Foreman's Clerk  
Foreman's Clerk  
Utility Foreman's Clerk  
senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
First Shop Clerk - G.C.  
Senior Operating Clerk Il  
Senior Operating Clerk-Typist Il  
Senior Operating Clerk |  
Senior Operating Clerk-Steno { (P/O)  
Senior Operating Clerk-Typist |  
An employee in a General Foreman's or Assistant Supervisor's office who assists the Foreman's Clerk or Senior Clerk by performing  
clerical work requirmg a basic knowledge of Electric Department office procedures and accounting principles. This work includes such  
duties as writing requisitions for work orders or GM's, processing time cards, work orders and GM's for the crews or for accounting  
purposes, and maintaining office files and records. May receive and dispatch customers’ complaints.  
Same or Higher Classifications  
wer Classifications  
“2676 Utility Clerk - Operating  
* 2684 = Utility Clerk - Typist - Operating  
Word Processing Operator - Operating  
0243  
0245  
0246  
0250  
0253  
0252  
0254  
0310  
0313  
0314  
0456  
0458  
2646  
2654  
2655:  
2662  
2664  
2667  
2723  
2/89  
Senior Field Clerk - G.C.  
Routine Field Clerk - G.C.  
First Field Clerk - G.C.  
Foreman's Clerk  
Foreman's Cierk  
Assistant Foreman’s Clerk  
Utility Foreman’s Clerk  
Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
First Shop Clerk - G.C.  
Routine Shop Clerk - G.C.  
T & D Driver  
Field Clerk - Electric T&D  
Senior Operating Clerk - Typist th  
Senior Operating Clerk - Steno | (P/O)  
Senior Operating Clerk - Typist |  
Operating Clerk  
Operating Clerk - Steno (P/O)  
Operating Clerk - Typist  
Senior Operating Clerk il  
Senior Operating Clerk |  
* Includes employees at Clerk D rate of pay as per 1980 General Negotiations.  
** The 30-month wage step of Word Processing Operator will be considered as top rate of pay when bidding to Assistant Foreman's Clerk.  
60  
Notes: The starting rate for an employee who ts a successful bidder on an Assistant Foreman's Clerk vacancy and who bids from T&D Driver  
and who is at the top rate of the T&D Driver classification, shall be the top rate of Assistani Foreman's Clerk. If he is not at the top rate of  
T&D Driver, he shall be placed at the 18-month wage step, and time worked in the T&D Driver classification shall be credited as time worked  
in the Assistant Foreman's Clerk Classification.  
Employees in Foreman’s Clerk or Assistant Foreman’s Clerk classifications shall be considered as next tower to Senior Operating Clerk II or  
Senior Operating Clerk | vacancies, respectively, in the Electric Department as indicated in the appropriate Division Clerical Lines Of  
Progression. "  
0263  
0264  
0266  
### DIVISION ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
### CLERICAL-HYDRO  
### SENIOR HYDRO CLERK  
An employee who has the qualifications of a First Hydro Clerk, performs clerical work and assists in the administrative work of the Hydro  
Supervisor's office and is the lead clerk in directing the work of other Hydro Clerks. When qualified, may be required to drive light  
Company vehicles.  
   
Next Lower Classifications Same or Higher Classifications  
0247 Field Clerk - Water | 0243 Senior Field - G.C.  
0264 First Hydro Clerk 0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
2723 Senior Operating Clerk 11 0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
2646 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist Ii  
0266 First Hydro Clerk - Helms  
### FIRST HYDRO CLERK  
### FIRST HYDRO CLERK HELMS  
An employee, under generai supervision, whose background and experience are such thai the employee has a comprehensive knowledge  
of the operation and procedures of the Hydro Department and is engaged in performing clerical work and assisting in the administrative  
work of the Hydro Supervisor's office. This work encompasses such duties as coordinating various functions to facilitate completion of  
jabs, including associated clerical duties in the field, assigning jobs to crews, ordering materials, preparing reports, processing time cards,  
work orders and GM's for the crews or for accounting purposes and maintaining office files and records. May supervise details of  
beardinghouse operations. Must have the clerical and typing skills required of a “Routine Hydro Clerk and may be required to take  
dictation. When qualified, may be required to drive light Company vehicles.  
Next Lower Classifications Same or Higher Classifications  
0265 Routine Hydro Clerk 0243 Senior Field Clerk - G.C.  
2654 Senior Operating Clerk-Sieno | (P10) 0246 First Field Clerk - G.C.  
61  
2655 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist } 0247 Field Clerk - Water  
2789 Senior Operating Clerk | 0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
2662 Operating Clerk 0264 First Hydro Clerk  
2664 Operating Clerk - Steno (PIO) 0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
| 2667 Operating Clerk-Typist . 0313 First Shop Clerk - G.C.  
2723 Senior Operating Clerk Il  
2646 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist Il  
0266 First Hydro  
### * 0265 ROUTINE HYDRO CLERK  
‘An employee who performs routine clerical work requiring a basic knowledge of established Hydro Department office procedures and  
elementary accounting principles; may operate PBX board. Must be able to type with reasonable speed and accuracy (35 Words Per  
Minute); may be required to learn shorthand prior to promotion to First Hydro Clerk. When qualified, may be required to drive light  
Company vehicles.  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION.  
### WATER DEPARTMENT  
### 0247 FIELD CLERK  
An employee whose background and experience is such that the employee has a comprehensive knowledge of the operation and  
procedures of a general foreman's or foreman's office in the Water Department and who performs the clerical work and assists in the  
administrative work of such office. This work includes such duties as coordinating various functions to facilitate the completion of jobs,  
assigning jobs to crews, receiving and dispatching customer's complaints, preparing reports, processing time cards, work orders, and GM's  
for the crews or for accounting purposes and maintaining office files and records. The employee's duties may require that the employee  
work in the office, in a camp, or in the field.  
Ne r Classitication _ Same or Higher Classifications  
0264 First Hydro Clerk 0243 Senior Fietd Clerk ~ G.C.  
0265 Routine Hydro Clerk 0246 First Field Clerk - G.C.  
2662 Operating Clerk , 0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
2789 Senior Operating Clerk { 0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
2654 Senior Operating Clerk-Steno { {PIO) 2723 Senior Operating Clerk Il  
2655 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist t 2646 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist It  
2664 Operating Clerk-Steno (PIO) 0266 First Hydro Clerk - Helms  
2667 Operating Clerk-Typist  
62  
   
### STEAM GENERATION AND NUCLEAR PLANT OPERATIONS DEPARTMENTS  
### 0290 SENIOR PLANT CLERK  
An employee who has the qualifications of a First Plant Clerk performs clerical work and is the lead clerk in a plant office directing the work  
of the other Plant Clerks.  
Next Lower Classifications  
0293  
2723  
2646  
Same or Higher Classifications  
   
First Plant Clerk 0059 Scheduling Assistant {DCPP Only)  
Senior Operating Clerk II 0243 Senior Field Clerk. - G.C.  
Senior Operating Clerk-Typitst ll 0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
0290 Senior Plant Clerk  
0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
### 0293 FIRST PLANT CLERK  
An employee who, under general supervision, performs clerical work requiring a working knowledge of all procedures used in steam plant  
office work and the normal amount of judgment accompanying that knowledge. May also be required to maintain specia! and routine  
Statistical records of operation and maintenance and to make computation for the preparation of reports. May be required to type  
accurately with reasonable speed.  
Next Lower Classifications  
0059  
0294  
2662  
2664  
2667  
0301  
Scheduling Assistant (DCPP Only)  
Routine Plant Clerk  
Operating Clerk  
Operating Clerk-Steno  
Operating Clerk-Typist  
Control Room Assistant (DCPP)  
63  
Same or Higher Classifications  
   
0243  
0246  
0263  
0264  
0290  
0293  
0310  
0313  
2723  
2646  
2789  
2654  
2655  
266  
Senior Field Clerk - G.C.  
First Field Clerk - G.C.  
Senior Hydro Clerk  
First Hydro Clerk  
Senior Plant Clerk  
First Plant Clerk  
Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
First Shop Clerk - G.C.  
Senior Operating Clerk It  
Senior Operating Clerk-Typist Il  
Senior Operating Clerk |  
Senior Operating Clerk-Steno | {P/O}  
Senior Operating Clerk-Typist |  
First Hydro Clerk - Helms  
### 0301 CONTROL ROOM ASSISTANT (DCPP)  
A shift employee in a nuclear power plant who is assigned to assist the shift foreman in the performance of his administrative duties and  
who performs clerical work on shift. is responsible to the plant office supervisor for the quality and quantity of the work performed.  
Performs such duties as verifying and preparing time cards for the foreman's signature, making and receiving calls relating to personnel  
and other matters for the shift foreman, maintaining logs, preparing summaries, assembling reports, preparing permits, and similar duties.  
Is responsible for maintaining supply of and preparation of food for required meals. Must be familiar with Company's accounting and  
record-keeping procedures, and shall be able to use a typewriter with moderate skill (25 words per minute net).  
Next Lower Classification ame or Higher Classifications  
- 0294 Routine Ptant Clerk 0059 Scheduling Assistant {(DCPP onty)  
0243 Senior Field Clerk -G.C.  
0246‘ First Field Clerk - G.C.  
0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
0264 First Hydro Clerk  
0290 Senior Plant Clerk  
0293 Plant Clerk  
0301 Contro! Room Assistant (DCPP)  
0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
0313 Shop Clerk - G.C.  
2723 ~=Sr. Operating Clerk Ii  
2646 Sr. Operating Clerk-T ypist Il  
2789 Sr. Operating Clerk |  
2654 Sr. Operating Clerk-Steno | (PIO)  
2655 Sr. Operating Clerk-Typist |  
0266 ~~‘ First Hydro Clerk - Helms  
### 0059 SCHEDULING ASSISTANT (DCPP Only)  
   
An employee whose primary responsibilities include collecting, processing, analyzing, maintaining and disseminating schedules and  
scheduling information. Duties include the input, processing information between PIMS and scheduling software; executing batch  
runstreams; reviewing, analyzing and correcting data and system errors; distributing scheduting information to client work groups; and  
developing basic reports using mainframe and personal computer programs. Must have knowledge of basic computer applications and be  
able to type with reasonabie speed and accuracy (35 w.p.m.).  
Next Lower Classification Same or Higher Classifications  
0294 Routine Plant Clerk 0243 Senior Field Clerk - G.C.  
Firsi Field Clerk - G.C.  
0263 Senior Hydro Clerk  
0264 =‘ First Hydro Clerk  
0290 Senior Plant Clerk  
   
0293 First Plant Clerk  
0301 Control Room Assistant  
0310 Senior Shop Clerk - G.C.  
0313 First Shop Clerk - G.C.  
2723 Senior Operating Clerk II  
2646 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist Il  
2654 Senior Operating Clerk-Steno | (P/O)  
2655 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist ¢  
2789 Senior Operating Clerk |  
0266 = First Hydro Cterk - Helms  
### 0294 ROUTINE PLANT CLERK  
An employee who performs routine clerical work requiring a basic knowledge of established Company steam plant office procedures and  
elementary accounting principles; may operate PBX Board or take readings during plant tests; in training for advancement to First Plant  
Clerk. Must be able to type with reasonable speed and accuracy (35 words per minute); may be required to learn shorthand prior to  
promotion to First Plant Clerk.  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION.  
Note: A transier application from a Utility Plant Clerk (DCPP) to Routine Plant Clerk wilt be given Priority 1 status under the Job Bidding System.  
Priority 1 transfer applications receive preference over all other transters and are treated as a bid under the provisions of Subsection 205.7(a), (b)}  
or as appropriate.  
### 0296 UTILITY PLANT CLERK (DCPP)  
### 0297 SHIFT UTILITY PLANT CLERK (DCPP)  
An employee who performs routine typing, filing, microfilming, photocopying and general clerical work. May operate PBX terminal, CRT  
terminal, and other standard office equipment. May be required to type with reasonable speed (35 words per minute net). Must have met  
ail of Company's pre-employment clerical requirements. Utility Plant Clerks who are assigned to the Dosimetry Office are shift employees.  
They may determine dose histories, issue and control TLD's, maintain NAC dosimetry records, log employees into the Radiological  
Controlied Area, read and rezero pencil dosimeters, and perform other clerical work.  
Additionally, Retief Utility Plant Clerk position at DCPP provides the necessary relief coverage for the Utility Plant Clerks assigned to the  
Access Controi and Dosimetry Office. The Relief position would be filed on a voluntary basis and if there are no volunteers, the Relief  
wouid be filled by the quarterly sign-up, The Relief will normally be assigned to a Monday - Friday, day shift.  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION  
Note: A transfer application from a Utility Plant Clerk (DCPP) to Routine Plant Clerk at Diablo Canyon Power Plant will be given Priority 7  
status under the Job Bidding. System. Priority 1 transfer applications receive preference over ail other transfers and are treated as a bid  
under the provisions of Subsection 205.7(a) or (b) as appropriate.  
65  
### GARAGE DEPARTMENT  
### 0277 PARTS CLERK  
An employee with a thorough knowledge of automotive parts and stores procedures, who performs without direct supervision, duties which  
include the purchasing, storing, issuing and requisitioning of automotive parts and tools. He may also be required to perform clerical work  
and assist in ihe administrative work of the Foreman’s or General Foreman's office.  
Next Lower Classifications same or Higher Classifications  
0880 Garageman 0277 Parts Clerk  
1210 Materials Handler 0730 Garage Subforeman  
2662 Operating Clerk 1254 Utility Equipment Mechanic  
2664 Operating Clerk-Steno (PID) 1255 (1256) Equipment Mechanic & (Unassigned)  
2667 Operating Clerk-Typist 1258 Apprentice Equipment Mechanic  
2646 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist Il  
2723 Senior Operating Clerk Il  
2789 Senior Operating Clerk |  
2654 Senior Operating Clerk-Stenc ! (P/O}  
2655 Senior Operating Clerk-Typist |  
### ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTER OPERATIONS LINES OF PROGRESSION  
The tables shown are for use in filling vacancies in the following departments: Vice President and Controller's Organization, Computer  
Operations, and the Mail Services Section of General Office Building Department. They should be used in connection with Section 18.8  
of the Clerical Agreement dated July 1, 1953, as amended. In addition, the transfer rights of employees of the Vice President and  
Controller's Organization and the General Office Operating Clerical (including thé Design-Drafting Clerical Unit, Reprographics Clerical  
Unit, and the Mail Services Section of the General Office Building Department) have been expanded to provide Subsection 18,5(c)(1)  
rights between these groups.  
The Vice President and Controller's Organization is comprised of the following sections: Major Billing, Bill Processing, Payroll, Capital  
Accounting, Miscellaneous Billing, Payment Processing, Revenue, Accounts Payable, Budget, Corporate Accounting and  
Correspondence Management. The Computer Operations Department consists of the Data Recording and Output Operations sections.  
By identifying these sections, the parties do not intend to change the scope of recognition.  
Transfer rights of employees in the Computer Operations Department and the Vice President and Controfier’s Organization have been  
established to provide 18.5(c}{1) rights between these groups.  
To use these tables, find the vacant classification. Below the vacant classification in the left-hand column are listed the next lower  
classifications. Below the vacant classification in the right-hand column are listed classifications which are the same as, or higher than  
66  
   
the vacant classification. The classifications listed as next lower, the same as, or higher than the vacant classification are followed by a  
hyphen and a label which describes the general function of the clerical classifications which are so considered.  
Example 1: If a vacancy exists in a Senior Accounting Clerk | classification in the Payroll Section, consideration under Subsections 18.8({b)  
and 18.8(c) of the Agreement in order of employment date shall be given to employees classified as Accounting Clerk, the equivalent, or  
higher.  
Temporary Assignments: Temporary upgrades shall take place within the unit in which the temporary vacancy exists provided there is a  
next lower classification to the vacant classification in such unit. Temporary upgrades into classifications where there is no next lower  
classification to the vacancy within the unit shall be made from the section, and then the department. A Section may be comprised of  
more than one unit. For example, in the Payroll and Accounts Payable Sections, a unit is comprised of all af the employees reporting to  
one exempt supervisor.  
Example 2: If a temporary vacancy exists in a Senior Accounting Clerk 1 classification ir: a unit of the Vice President and Controller's  
Organization, consideration in order of employment date shall be given to employees classified as Accounting Clerk in that unit.  
Transfers within Vice President and Organization (LA 82-4)  
"An employee who has been promoted or transferred into or within the Vice President and Comptroller's Organization will not have his or  
her bids or applications for transfer to move laterally considered for a minimum of six months following such promotion or transfer. The  
foregoing shall not apply to shift changes. Employees transferring or bidding between in Vice President and  
and Computer Operations Department will not be bypassed pursuant to Section 18.11 of the Clerical! Agreement if solely based on a lack  
of job knowledge and/or experience, The foregoing shall not abrogate the parties’ intent to develop and implement training and testing  
procedures for promotional eligibility to all senior classifications in the Vice President and Comptrotter’s Organization. Once such training  
and testing procedures are negotiated and implemented, Company and Union will review the contents of this paragraph."  
Typist Designation:  
Criteria: A typist position will normally perform typing 20 percent of the time during a workweek. The typing assignments should generally  
require more than simple typing skills such as form completion.  
The above criteria will be waived if there is a demonstrated need for a typist at an office.  
a  
### ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTER OPERATIONS LINES OF PROGRESSION  
Accounting  
### 2642 SENIOR ACCOUNTING CLERK |!  
2767 SENIOR ACCOUNTING CLERK-TYPIST II (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
67  
   
Next Lower Classifications  
2788  
2813  
2878  
2808  
Senior Accounting Clerk i  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Typist |  
Computer Operator |  
Lead Data Entry Operator’  
### 2788 SENIOR ACCOUNTING CLERK |  
Same or Higher Classiftcations  
2642  
2767  
2879  
2779  
2813 SENIOR ACCOUNTING CLERK-TYPIST | (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
Next Lower Classifications  
2661 Accounting Clerk  
2873 Accounting Clerk-Typist  
2877 Computer Operator Ii  
2697 Machine Operator - Accounting  
Senior Accounting Clerk If  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Typist li  
Senior Computer Operator  
Computer Operator 1-A  
same or Higher Classifications  
2642  
2767  
2808  
2788  
2813  
2879  
2779  
2878  
Senior Accounting Clerk II  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Typist 1  
Lead Data Entry Operator  
Senior Accounting Clerk |  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Typist |  
Senior Computer Operator  
Computer Operator I-A  
Computer Operator |  
YAn employee classified as a Lead Data Entry Operator - Data Recording Section shali be considered as being in the same or next lower  
classification provided such employee has passed the "PS/ Clerical Test Battery", or has quafified in accordance with the provisions outlined  
on Pages 76 - 78.  
### 2661 ACCOUNTING CLERK  
2873 ACCOUNTING CLERK-TYPIST (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
### 2697 MACHINE OPERATOR  
Next Lower Classifications  
2677 Utility Clerk-Accounting  
* 2685 Utility Clerk-Typist-Accounting  
2875 Computer Operator fll  
2876 Computer Operator  
2807 Data Entry Operator”  
2689 Utility Machine Operator - Accounting  
2773 Mail Clerk Driver  
2805 Machine Operator B (Incumbent Only)  
Same or Higher Classifications  
2642  
2767  
2788  
2813  
2879  
2779  
2878  
2877  
Senior Accounting Clerk II  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Typist II  
Senior Accounting Clerk |  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Typist |  
Senior Computer Operator  
Computer Operator I-A  
Computer Operator |  
Computer Operator ||  
68  
2/33  
™ 0059  
  
Word Processing Operator - Accounting 2697  
Clerical Assistant 2808  
2661  
2873  
Machine Operator  
Lead Data Entry Operator”  
Accounting Clerk  
Accounting Clerk - Typist  
YAn employee classified as Data Entry Operator or Lead Data Entry Operator - Data Recording Section shall be considered as  
being in the same or next lower classification provided such employee has passed the "PS/ Clerical Test Battery", or has qualified in  
accordance with the provisions outlined on Pages 76 - 78.  
Includes employees at Clerk D rate of pay as per 1980 General Negotiations.  
Employees in the classification of Clerical Assistant sha!l be considered under Subsection 18.8(c) of the Clerical Agreement for  
bidding to Accounting Clerk in the Vice President and Controller's Organization in ihe Payroll and Accounts Payable Sections, and  
to Operating Clerk positions in the Operating Line of Progression in the Regions.  
### 2773 MAIL CLERK DRIVER  
Next Lower Classifications  
   
* 2677  
* 2685  
2807  
2689  
2875  
2876  
2805  
2/33  
1  
Utility Clerk-Accounting 2642  
Utility Clerk-Typist-Accounting 2767  
Data Entry Operator” 2788  
Utility Machine Operator 2813  
Computer Operator III 2879  
Computer Operator 2/79  
Machine Operator B (incumbent Only) 2878  
Word Processing Operator - Accounting 2877  
2773  
2808  
2825  
2661  
2873  
2697  
2819  
Same or Higher Classifications  
   
Senior Accounting Clerk |!  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Typist }I  
Senior Accounting Clerk |  
senior Accounting Clerk-Typist |  
senior Computer Operator  
Computer Operator |-A  
Computer Operator |  
Computer Operator II  
Mail Clerk Driver  
Lead Data Entry Operator”  
Office Machine Repairman  
Accounting Clerk  
Accounting Clerk-Typist  
Machine Operator - Accounting  
Senior Office Machine Repairman  
¥ An employee classified as Data Entry Operator or Lead Data Entry Operator - Data Recording Section shall be considered as being in the  
same or next lower classification provided such employee has passed the "PS/ Clerical Test Battery", or has qualifted in accordance with  
the provisions outlined on Pages 76 - 78.  
* Includes employees at Clerk D rate of pay as per 1980 General Negotiations.  
69  
   
2677  
2685  
2689  
2733  
### UTILITY CLERK  
UTILITY CLERK-TYPIST (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
### UTILITY MACHINE OPERATOR  
WORD PROCESSING OPERATOR - ACCOUNTING (55 w.p.m. typing required)  
See also note 5{a), Page 73.  
2879  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATIONS  
Computer Operations  
### SENIOR COMPUTER OPERATOR  
### SENIOR COMPUTER OPERATOR - GENERAL OFFICE COMPUTER CENTER  
Will assist in providing on-the-job training and be responsible for the operation of input/output equipment, alternate consoles and/or  
terminals, computer system consoles, and perform related clerical duties.  
### SENIOR COMPUTER OPERATOR - FAIRFIELD COMPUTER CENTER - WEST SACRAMENTO  
Will assist in providing on-the-job training and be responsible for the operation of input/output equipment, alternate consoles and/or  
terminals, computer system consoles, Tape Library management, Scheduling and Control functions, off-site storage functions, and  
perform related clerical duties.  
Next Lower Classifications Same or Higher Classification  
2779 Computer Operator (Incumbents 2879 Senior Computer Operator  
2879 Computer Operator 1”  
24-month step of Computer Operator | (2878) is considered as top rate for bidding purposes from any of the above classifications.  
Computer Operator |'s. and must be at top rate of pay for bidding purposes and have successfully completed the appropriate Senior  
Computer Operator Course to be considered qualified bidders.  
1/ Upon reaching the top of the CO | classification and successfully completing the Senior Computer Operator course, an employee shall be  
eligible to bid into the Senior Computer Operator classification for the Section in which such employee has completed the required courses.  
70  
2878  
2877  
2875  
2808  
### COMPUTER OPERATOR |  
Responsible for the operation of input/output equipment, altemate consoles and/or terminais, computer system consoles, and may perform  
related clerical duties.  
Next Lower Classification  
Automatic progression upon completion of six months at top rate of Computer Operaior || and successful completion of Computer  
Operator | training course.  
### COMPUTER OPERATOA Il  
Responsible for the operation of input/output equipment, alternate consoles and/or terminals and may perform related clerical duties.  
Next Lower Classification  
Automatic progression upon completion of six months at top rate of Computer Operator lil and successful completion of Computer  
Operator Il training course.  
### COMPUTER OPERATOR  
Will, under direction, perform the duties to operate input/output equipment and/or terminals and may perform related clerical duties. A  
Computer Operator Ili is not required to have prior experience.  
All Computer Operator ill's (new hires and transfers) must successfully complete the appropriate Computer Operator in Training Course  
within 6 months.  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION  
### LEAD DATA ENTRY OPERATOR  
Lead Data Entry Operators must be familiar with and proficient in all the work of the unit. Each Lead Operator will be expected to provide  
training to Data Entry Operators in all work of the unit and will batch, assign and control the work; and act as ihe Lead Operator in the Unit.  
Each Lead Operator will also be expected to coordinate his or her attendance with the Unit Supervisor under the flextime system. To be  
eligible for promotion to the classification, a Data Entry Operator must have a six-month performance rating of 1.10 or better.  
Next Lower Classification Same or Higher Classification  
2807 Data Entry Operator 2808 Lead Data Entry Operator  
ra  
### 2807 DATA ENTRY OPERATOR  
### BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION  
### PHYSICAL JOBS TO WHICH CLERICAL EMPLOYEES IN THE ACCOUNTING  
### LINE OF PROGRESSION ARE VALID PRE-BIDDERS UNDER SECTION 205.7 OF THE PHYSICAL AGREEMENT  
### 2819 SENIOR OFFICE MACHINE REPAIRMAN  
Senior Office Machine Repairmen wil! be responsible for the maintenance and repair of bill inserting machines, training Office Machine  
Repairmen for the second and third shifts, training of inserting machine operators, ordering machine parts, keeping of maintenance  
records, performing preventative maintenance, maintaining contacts with machine manufacturer's representatives, and performing other  
duties as assigned. (L.A. 81-23)  
_ Next Lower Classification _ Same or Higher Classification  
2825 Office Machine Repairman 2819 Senior Office Machine Repairman  
### 2825 OFFICE MACHINE REPAIRMAN  
AS per Letter of Agreement 81-47, successful bidders must pass the Office Machine Repairman‘s Qualification Test with a minimum score  
of 65%.  
Next Lower Classifications | Same or Higher Classifications  
2788 Senior Accounting Clerk | 2642 Senior Accounting Clerk II  
2813 Senior Accounting Clerk-Typist | 2767 Senior Accounting Clerk- ypist  
2661 Accounting Clerk 2808 Lead Data Entry Operator  
2873 Accounting Clerk-Typist 2825 Office Machine Repairman  
28/8 Computer Operator | 2779 Computer Operator I-A  
2877 Computer Operator II 2879 senior Computer Operator  
2819 Senior Office Machine Repairman  
i An employee classified as Lead Data Entry Operator - Data Recording Section shall be considered as being in the same or next lower  
classification provided such employee has passed the "PS/ Clerical Test Battery", or has qualified in accordance with the provisions outlined on  
Pages 76 -78. .  
72  
   
### CLERICAL WAGE AND CLASSIFICATION AGREEMENT  
Effective January 1, 1980  
1.) The parties have agreed to establish a new Job Evaluation System replacing the Clerical Gross-Hatch Index System as provided for in the  
letter agreement dated March 8, 1974. The new System must be agreed to no later than 24 months after the effective date of this Agreement,  
and in the event the parties are unable to reach agreement, the issue would then be submitted to arbitration pursuant to Title 9 of the Agreement  
to resolve the dispute. The arbitrable issue will be restricted to the adoption of one of the parties’ Job Evaluation Systems as submitted to the  
arbitrator with the understanding that Company would not submit the Clerical Cross-Hatch Index System and, in turn, the Union would not submit  
job definitions.  
2a.) During the.24-month period described above or until such time as the parties agree to a new Job Evaluation System, the Company will  
continue to fill new clerical vacancies and assign the rates of pay on the basis of comparing the new job to existing classifications of comparable  
duties. In other words, the method Company will use in determining the rate of pay will be a slotting method of comparing the new job to existing  
jobs with comparable duties. The Union will be notified of alt such placements and has the right to challenge each rate of pay. Once the parties  
have agreed to a Job Evaluation System, ail jobs challenged during the interim period will be re-evaluated using the. new Evaluation System and  
if adjustments are necessary, they will be made retroactive to the date af filling.  
b.) Further, Company will remove all designations from the existing clerical classifications in the bargaining unit and during the interim  
period consider these classifications for purposes of Titles 13, 18, and Exhibit F at the higher level. Once the parties have agreed to a new  
Evaluation System, the former “RWYV" classifications will be reevaluated and assigned and adjusted -if necessary. If as a result of the  
re-evaluation it is necessary to lower the classification and rate of pay, then the employees filling the jobs will be given displacement or demotion  
and layoff rights pursuant to Title 19 of the Agreement. An employee's right to use Title 19 will be limited to the displacement of the employee  
with the least Service who entered the classification after the employee seeking to use the provisions of Title 19. Company will supply Union with  
a list of all classifications which are formerly designated as on the effective date of this Agreement. It is also understood that grievances  
currently pending that were filed pursuant to the Clerical Job Grading Grievance Procedure dated March 8, 1974, will be resolved by the  
Pre-Review Committee.  
3.) Company will review Company offices, departments, and the Comptroller's Organization for the purpose of restructuring the duties to  
provide for additional senior positions. As a result of the commitment to establish additional senior positions, Company, starting no Jater than  
January 1981 and in each January and July thereafter for the term of this Agreement, will meet with Union to review progress. If the Company  
has not lived up to its commitment, then Union will have the right to initiate a grievance pursuant to Title 9 of the Clerical Labor Agreement to  
resolve the issue.  
4.) The parties agreed jointly to attempt to develop training and testing procedures for promotional eligibility to all senior classifications within  
the Clerical Agreement with the understanding that the initial implementation of the training and testing procedures would start in the Customer  
Services Department and follow either in the Vice President and Comptroller's Organization or Clerical Operating. During the interim period, the  
provisions of Title 18 would still apply.  
5a.) Placement into the Utility Clerk classification will start on the effective date of this Agreement, (1-31-80). Employees who currently hold the  
classification of Clerk D and its equivalent will retain such classification and their wage progression as established in 1976 and be allowed to  
progress to the top of such current wage progressions until such time as they vacate the classification. Employees classified as Clerk D and  
73  
   
equivatent who go on Long Term Disability or a leave of absence or who transfer laterally in the same line of progression pursuant to Title 18 of  
the Agreement will retain their Clerk D or equivalent status untit such time as they vacate the Clerk D or equivalent classification. Al other  
transfers of Clerk D's will be to the Utility Clerk classification and its rate of pay. Any other employee entering the beginning clerical level (except  
as a Meter Reader, Computer Operator-in-Training, or Data Entry Operator) shall be classified and paid as a Utility Clerk.  
5b.) The provisions of Section 13.9 of the Clerical Agreement. will apply to all beginning level appointments. However, in case of transfer  
between Utility Clerk and Meter Reader, the provisions of Section 18.10 of the Clerical Agreement will apply, whether or not there is a change in  
line of progression.  
6.) entry starting rate guidelines as outlined below.  
7.) Combination classifications and dual classifications will be handled in thé same manner as provided for in Exhibit A, Lines of Progression,  
Division Clerical Departments.  
8.) (2730) Supervising Clerk B classification is eliminated from Exhibit F of the clerical! contract. Those employees classified as Supervising  
Clerk B on the effective date of this Agreement will be maintained at their current wage rate subject to wage increases until such time as  
they vacate the classification.  
9.) ASenior | classification shall not be.required to act as lead over a Senior ll classified employee.  
### CLERICAL HIRING RATE GUIDELINES  
The following hiring rate guidelines apply to clerical employees hired under the Agreement:  
1.) An employee with less than 6 months of directly related clerical job experience will be hired at the starting rate of the applicable clerical  
classification.  
An employee with 6 months, but less than 12 months directly related clerical job experience, will be hired at the 6-month rate of the  
applicable clerical classification.  
An employee with 12 to 18 months directly related clerical job experience, will be hired at the one-year rate of the applicable clerical  
classification.  
An employee with 18 to 24 months directly related clerical job experience, shall be hired at the 18-month rate of the applicable clerical  
classification.  
An employee, other than Utility Clerk, with 2 years or more directly related clerical job experience, shall be hired at the 24-month rate of the  
applicable clerical classification.  
A Utility Clerk with 24 to 30 months directly related clerical job experience, shall be hired at the 24-month rate of the Utility Clerk.  
A Utility Clerk with 30 months directly related clerical job experience, shall be hired at the 30-month rate of the Utility Clerk.  
74  
2.) \n applying paragraph 1, credit will be given for office clerical work, "office clerical work" does not include: (a) sales work in any type of  
retail establishments; (b) work as a teller in a bank or savings institution.  
3.) Credit for work experience will not be given for jobs held prior to a five-year break in employment.  
4.) No credit will be given for non-verifiable work experience.  
5.) No credit will be given for summer or part-time work experience accrued while a student.  
6.) Credit will not be given for experience accrued on a casual or intermittent basis, including work performed while employed through a  
temporary agency.  
### DEFINITIONS OF THE PHRASE "AT THE TOP RATE OF PAY OF THE  
### NEXT LOWER CLASSIFICATION" IN CLERICAL LINES OF PROGRESSION  
### TITLE 18 - JOB BIDDING, PROMOTION AND TRANSFER  
For the purpose of clarification, the “top rate of pay of the next Jower classification” is defined as the top wage rate of that classification  
which has the lowest maximum wage rate of the group of classifications combined and indicated as the next lower to any particular higher  
classification.  
Example: Senior Service Representative |  
Senior Service Representative-Typist t  
Next Lower Classifications:  
Service Representative  
Service Hepreseniative-Typist  
Credit Representative  
Credit Representative and Meter Reader  
In the above example, the Service Representative and Service Representative-Typist are the classifications with the lowest maximum  
wage rate of the group of classifications shown as next lower. An employee in any of the "next lower classifications" who is receiving a wage rate  
equal to or greater than the maximum rate of such classifications would be considered as being "at the top rate of pay of the next lower  
classification” as referred to in Subsection 18.8{b) or (c}. Where a physical classification is "next lower" in Exhibit A, the clerical classification  
with the lowest maximum wage rate shall prevail in determining the “top rate of pay of the next lower classification."  
To be entitled to preferential consideration an employee who is presently in any of the “next lower classifications” or any of the “same or  
higher classifications’ to a classification in the normal line of progression for which s/he has bid must be receiving a rate of pay equal to or  
greater than the lowest maximum wage rate of the group of classifications combined and indicated as the next lower to the classification on  
which s/he bid.  
15  
With regard to the filling of the Service Representative classification, an employee who has completed six months of continuous service  
and has been given regular employee status and who is in any of the classifications on either side as being in the "next iower  
classifications" or the "same or higher classifications" to Service Representative, will be considered as being “at the top rate of pay of the next  
lower classification” for bidding purposes under Subsection 18.8(b} or {c) to a job vacancy in the classification of Service Representative.  
See Subsection 18.2(c) for the definition of the top of the rate of pay of the next lower classification when bidding from a beginner's  
classification, except to Service Representative.  
### CLERICAL & METER READER TEST BATTERIES  
Effective January 1, 1998.  
### A. CLERICAL TEST BATTERY  
The Clerical Test Battery consists of five tests: PSi Computation (5 minutes)  
PSI Language Skills (5 minutes)  
PS! Problem Solving (10 minutes)  
PSi Coding (5 minutes)  
PS! Visual Speed and Accuracy (5 minutes}  
The scores on the tests are combined algebraically to yield an averali Clerical Aptitude Score. The minimum Clerical Aptitude Score  
required for transfer to, or employment in, any entry-level clerical classification except Reprographics Operator or Data Entry Operator is  
81.5 points.  
### B. METER READER TEST BATTERY  
The Meter Reader Test Battery consists of two tests: PS! Coding (5 minutes)  
PSi Visual Speed and Accuracy (5 minutes)  
Scores on the two tests are combined algebraically te yield an overall Meter Reader Aptitude Score. The minimum Meter Reader Aptitude  
Score required for transfer to, or employment as, a Meter Reader is 49.5 points. ~  
### C. RETESTING PROVISIONS  
An employee is permitted two attempts to pass the Clerical or Meter Reader Test Battery. An employee who fails to attain a passing score  
on the first attempt may take the tests a second time 90 days or later following the date of the first testing. Any failure on a Clerical  
Preemployment Test before July 1, 1986 will not be counted as an attempt.  
### D. APPLICATION FOR TESTING:  
76  
1. Employees submitting prebids or transfer applications will receive a Company acknoviledgment, listing test requirements for each  
job classification,  
2. Ifemployees have not already satisfied those test requirements, they must notify the Human Resources Department in writing that  
they are prepared and desire to take the required tests.  
3. Employees will not be bypassed for a vacancy because they have not taken the required test(s), if they have notified the Company  
In accordance with paragraph 2 above and the Company has not administered the required test(s).  
4, Employees must be qualified for the vacancy on the contro! date, except in those situations described in paragraph 3 above, or  
where Company and Union have agreed to specific prerequisites that provide for appointments to be held pending the  
determination of qualifications. Subsections 18.4(d) and 18.5{c).  
### E. TESTING REQUIREMENTS IN EFFECT PRIOR TO JULY 1, 1986:  
1. Passing the six-test Cierical Battery Test in effect in 1967.  
2. Scoring 70 points or higher on the Name Comparison Test and 20 paints or higher on EAS#2 - Numerical Ability.  
3. Scoring 86 points or higher on the Number Perception Test and 14 points or higher on Differential Aptitude Test - Numerical Ability.  
### F. TESTING REQUIREMENTS IN EFFECT BETWEEN JULY 1, 1986 AND DECEMBER 31, 1997:  
4. Qualifying on the EE! Clerical Aptitude Test Battery (CLAPT) with a minimum score of 1 &0 points,  
2. Qualifying on the EE! Meter Reader Aptitude Test Battery (MRAFT) with a minimum score of 130 points.  
### G. TESTING POLICY REGARDING TRANSFERS TO CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS:  
1. A transferee to a Routine Hydro Clerk or Routine Plant Clerk or a clerical classification other than @ combination Meter Reader  
classification, Data Entry Operator or Reprographics Operator, is qualified if the employee:  
a. Currently holds, or previously demonstrated satisfactory performance in, a classiiication (other than Meter Reader) requiring the  
Clerical Test Battery, or  
b. Passed a previously negotiated Clerical Test Battery prior to July 1, 1986, or  
c. Passed the EE) Clerical Aptitude Test Battery (CLAP7) between July 1, 1986 and December 31, 1997, or  
d. Passed the PS/ Clerical Test Battery on or after January 1, 1998, and  
e. Passed any required skills tests (typing) within one year of the vacancy as provided in Review Committee Decision No. 1517. (See  
Page 84.}  
i?  
   
. A transferee io Meter Reader is qualified if she/he:  
a. Previously demonstrated satisfactory performance as a Meter Reader, or  
b. Passed a previously negotiated Clerical Test Battery prior to July 1, 1986, with a passing score of 20 on EAS#2, Numerical Ability, or  
c, Passed the EEI Meter Reader Aptitude Test Battery (MARAPT) between July 1, 1986 and December 31, 1997, or  
d. Passed the PS! Meter Reader Test Battery on or after January 1, 1998.  
A transferee to Reprographics Operator is quaiified if she/he:  
a. Previously demonstrated satisfactory performance as a Reprographics Operator, or  
b. Previously passed the Reprographics Operator test consisting of the Guilttord-Zimmerman and Name Comparison tests. The  
Name Comparison test is not required if the. transferee is currently in or previously demonstrated satisfactory performance in a  
clerical classification other than Data Entry Operator.  
c. The Guilford-Zimmerman test is no longer given. A replacement test will require agreement between the Company and Union for  
positions filed after January 1, 2002.  
. Atransferee to Data Entry Operator is qualified if she/he:  
a. Previously demonstrated satisfactory performance as a Data Entry Operator.  
b. Previously passed the Keypunch Skills test.  
c. The Keypunch Skills test is no given. A replacement test wilf require agreement between the Company and Union for  
positions filled after January 1, 2002.  
A transferee to Materials Handier is qualified if she/he:  
a. Previously demonstrated satisfactory performance as a Materials Handler, or  
b, Currently holds, or previousty demonstrated satisfactory performance in, a clerical job classification other than Data Entry Operator  
or Reprographics Operator and passed the typing and Forklift Operator tests, or  
c. Passed the Name Comparison, EAS#2 - Numerical Ability, Forklift Operator tests, and scored 25 w.p.m. or higher on the typing test, or  
d, Qualified on the EE! Clerical Aptitude Test Battery (CLAPT) between July 1, 1986 and Decernber 31, 1997, passed the Forklift  
| Operator tests, and scored 25 w.p.m. or higher on the typing test,  
€, Qualified on the PS! Clerical Test Battery on or after January 1, 1998, passed the Forklift Operator tests, and scored 25 w.p.m.  
or higher on the typing test.  
78  
### SERVICE TRAINING PROGFIAM  
Each employes who will be required to take and pass the test will first be given the opportunity to complete the training program. After  
completing the training program, the employee will be tested as to that information upon which he has received instruction. A passing score on  
the test is 72.6%. In the event an employee fails the initial test, additional instruction will be given and an opportunity to take the failed section(s)  
of the test a second time will be provided at the employee's request within 90 days of the date he first the test.  
Employees who fail to attain a passing score on the retest, or who do not request a retest within the 90-day period, shall be removed from  
tha Service Representative classification.  
Six months, or thereafter, following demotion, the employee will have the opportunity to take the failed section(s) of the test a third time,  
provided the employee is able to show satisfactory evidence thal ine empinyee has prepared himself or herself to pass the test.  
### SENIOR SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES’ TRAINING PROGRAM  
Letter Agreement R2-97-142-PGE  
1. —  
Employees in the Customer Services Department who are next lower in the line of progression to Senior Service Representative | and  
have bids on file are eligible for the Senior Service Representative Training Program. Upon successful completion of the training and  
testing program, an employee will have met the Senior Service Representative | and II promotional eligibility requirements. {Employees  
are still subject to the provisions of Sections 18.11 and 18.13 of the Clerical Agreement.)  
2. Bidding  
An employee who has valid bids on file and is the senior bidder to a Senior Service Representative | or Il vacancy and is otherwise  
qualified, will not be bypassed if such employee has not had the opportunity to participate in or complete the training program. The job will  
be awarded pending successful completion of the training program. If an employee voluntarily withdraws from the training program, the job  
wil] be reawarded. However, if an employee is removed from the training program for reasons beyond his or her control, s/he will retain the  
job award pending rescheduling and successful completion of the training program. This does not include a retest.  
3. Withdrawals  
Employees who have voluntarily withdrawn from the training program will be eligibie to be rescheduted for training after 90 days.  
4, Training  
The revised training program is 84 hours long and consists of the following 11 modules:  
Introduction (8 hours) (28 hours)  
Communication Skills and Tools {4 hours) Credit & Collections (4 haurs)  
New Business (4 hours) Division Account Services (12 hours)  
CPUC Complaints (4 hours) Metering (4 hours)  
79  
Energy Efficiency and Resources (2 hours) Outage Communications (6 hours)  
Advanced Field Services (8 hours)  
A detailed description of each module is attached. The training program will be administered on consecutive work days and may be provided at  
a Jocation other than an employee’s regular headquarters. The general provisions established for employees attending Company training  
classes will apply (Title 15 of Clerical Agreement).  
The pre-course study guide exercise has been omitted from the program in exchange for the open resource final exarn.  
5. Testing |  
The Senior Service Representative Promotional Eligibility Test will be administered at the end of the last day of the éraining program, A  
revised test is dated July 7, 1997 and includes 70 questions. Employees would be given 3 hours to take the test, The passing score is  
75%. The final exam ig now open resource (students have their computers, classroom manuals and their reterence guides from training  
available to them for reference during the exam}.  
If the employee fails the test, s/he will have 90 days to request a retest using a different but equivalent test.  
it the employee fails the test on the second attempt, s/he must demonstrate that they have made an attempt to improve their test performance  
through self-study, classes, étc., prior to being granted a retest.  
Disputes concerning the fairness of administration, correction of the test, or eligibility of retest shall be resolved in with Title 9 of the Clerical  
Agreemeni.  
Note: Company will provide leadership training to employees newly placed in a requiar Senior Service Representative position.  
### CONFIDENTIAL LIN F PROGRESSION  
Confidentia! employees in the Regional Manager's office and Human Resources Department in Golden Gate Region are considered as  
being in the Customer Service Line of Progression as set forth in Exhibit A of the Clerical Agreement, and that confidential employees in the Gas  
and Electrical Departments of Golden Gate Region are considered as being in the Operating Line of Progression for their respective  
departments, as set forth in Exhibit A of the Clerical Agreement, for the purposes of appiying of Section 18.8 of the Clerical Agreement  
dated July 1, 1953, as amended.  
In other Regions these employees are considered in the Line of Progression in the Region, Division or Department in which they are  
lacated; employees who are in the Human Resources Department or who are secretaries to Region Vice Presidents, Region Department or  
Division Managers are considered as being in the Customer Service Line of Progression, and employees who are secretaries to Region  
Operating Managers are considered as being in the Operating Line of Progression.  
### EXHIBIT A SUPERSEDES THE FOLLOWING LABOR AGREEMENT INTERPRETATION AND LETTERS OF AGREEMENT  
Labor Agreement Interpretation applicable to Title 18 which defines the phrase “at the top rate of pay of the next tower classification,"  
effective January 26, 1968.  
80  
Letter Agreements relative to the Clerical Test Battery - Customer Service Clerk, Training Program and appointments to vacancies in this  
classification, one dated February 15, 1967, signed February 28, 1967 by the Union, and another dated May 2, 1968, signed May 7, 1968 by the  
Union.  
Letter Agreement dated May 19, 1975, with respect to Confidential Employees’ Lines of Progression, and signed by the Union on May 29,  
1975,  
Letter Agreement dated May 4, 4977, and signed by the Union on May 10, 1977, with respect to transfer rights between and among  
employees in the Comptroller's Organization and Design Drafting.  
Letter Agreement dated Aprit 4, 1979, and signed by the Union on June 25, 1979, relating to a Limited Modification of Clerical  
Pre-emptoyment Test Battery.  
90-8-PGE  
Amends Review Committee File No. (See Page 84)  
Pacific Gas and Electric Company  
215 Market Sireet  
San Francisco, CA 94106  
415/972-7000  
January 16, 1990  
Local Union No. 1245  
International Brotherhood of  
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
P.O. Box 4790  
Walnut Creek, CA 94596  
Attention: Mr. Jack McNally, Business Manager  
Gentlemen:  
Company proposes to change test requirements and/or adminisirative procedures for certain classifications, as follows:  
TYPIST, STENO and MATERIALSMAN classifications  
1. Applicants for the above classifications shall be allowed the option of taking the typing test an a personal computer or electric typewriter.  
2. The attached PG&E Typing Test Manual, dated July 1979, will be acknowledged as the tool for administering typing skill tests.  
in addition, Company proposes to amend the provisions of Review Committee 1517, so that it only applies to applicants to Steno classifications,  
and to only those applicants to the Steno classification who have not met the Steno requirement or held a Steno classification during the previous  
42 month period.  
81  
   
### AUXILIARY OPERATOR/ASSISTANT POWER PLANT OPERATOR  
Replace the current test battery with the Plant Operator Selection System (passing score 8) in addition to the ACT requirement.  
### GAS SUPPLY COORDINATOR |  
Reduce the current test battery to the EE] CPT and TY! (25 wpm).  
### MAINTENANCE ASSISTANT |  
Replace the current test battery with the EEl CPT and TY! (25wpm).  
### MATERIALSMAN  
Replace the current test battery with the CPT in addition to the FLO and requirement.  
Amend Title 600, Exhibit VI-A, Procedures for Materials Training Program and Test Requirements, Section IV. Delete current language and add:  
1. The test will be administered by the employee's Human Resources Department in accordance with the procedures established-in the  
PGandE Typing Tesi Manual dated July 1979.  
### ME] ER READER  
Amend Exhibit A, Clerical and Meter Reader Test Batteries, Part F.2.(6): Passed a previously negotiated Clerical Test Battery prior to July t,  
1986, with a passing score of 20 on EAS #2, Numerical Abili  
### ROUTINE HYDRO CLERK  
Amend Title 600.12, Exhibit V!I-L, Job Definitions and Lines of Progression for Routine Hydro Clerk, as follows: [Bracketed portions indicate  
deletions.)  
0265 Routine Hydro Clerk  
An employee who performs routine clerical work requiring a basic knowledge of established Hydro Depariment office procedures and elementary  
accounting principles; may operate PBX board. Must [have a high school education or its equivatent and] be able to type with reasonable speed  
and accuracy {35 words per minute); may be required to learn shorthand prior to promotion to First Hydro Clerk. When qualified, may be  
required to drive light Company vehicles.  
### ROUTINE PLANT CLERK  
Amend Title 600.3, Exhibit Job Definitions and Lines of Progression for Routine Plant Clerk, as follows:  
0294 Routine Plant Gierk  
An employee who performs routine clerical work requiring a basic knowledge of established Company steam plant office procedures and  
elementary accounting principles; may operate PBX Board or take readings during plant tests; in training for advancement to First Plant Cierk.  
Must [have a high school education or its equivalent and] be able to type with reasonable speed and accuracy (35 words per minute); may be  
required to learn shorthand priar te promation to First Plant Clerk.  
### WORD PROCESSING OPERAT.  
Replace 50 wpm typing requirement with 55 wpm to be consistent with other typist classifications.  
Company also proposes to confirm aptitude and skills testing requirements for various beginning and prebiddable (promotional) classifications.  
The attached document describes Description of Tests, Testing and Retesting Provisions, and the specific requirements for new hires and  
empioyees by classification. This dacument should be used in conjunciion with requirements listed in Exhibit A of the Clerical Agreement and  
Title 600 of the Physical Agreement.  
Further, Company proposes to relax the retesting provisions for employees subject to demotion and/or displacement during the period of notice.  
Such employees shall be given an opportunity to qualify for a classification during the period of notice notwithstanding the period of time lapsed  
since the last attempi, providing such employees have not exhausted the number of attempts allowed. Where there is no limit to the number of  
aitempts allowed (e.g., typing test), an employee may take the test as often as he/she is notilied of displacement and/or demotion under the  
provisions of the respective agreement.  
Company further proposes that the Parties mutually agree to the requirements fisted on the Job Bidding Qualifications table in a separate  
agreement.  
If you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this  
letter to the Company. |  
Yours very truly,  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY  
By /s/ Richard B. Bradford  
Manager of Industrial Relations  
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL  
### BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO  
Jan 22, 1990 By /s/ Jack McNally  
Business Manager  
### DMSIV;se  
83  
   
### DMSIV;se  
### REVIEW COMMITTEE DECISION  
Review Committee File No. 1517-81-1  
Sacramento Division Grievance No. 6-410-80-9  
Amended by LA 90-8 {See Page 81)  
Subject of the Grievance  
The grievant, an intermittent Clerk D in Customer Services Department, was required by Company to requalify her typing skills before  
being awarded a transfer to a full-time Utility Clerk-Typist position. Due to her failure to pass the typing retest, the grievant was bypassed for the  
job in question.  
cts of the Case  
The grievant was employed on March 10, 1975, as an unscheduled, temporary, part-time Clerk D in the Customer Services Department.  
Subsequent to this, she submitted transfer applications to various full-time clerical jobs. in order to qualify herself for consideration to the  
position of Clerk D-Typist (now Utility Cterk-Typist), on February 2, 1978, she took and passed the required typing test.  
In May 1980 the grievant was the senior wansfer applicant for a position of Utility Clerk-Typist in Solano District, Sacramento Division.  
Prior to being awarded this job, the grievant was notified by Company that she would have to requalify her typing skill level. The grievant  
requested and received a one week's detay in taking the test as she felt a need to brush up her typing skill which had not been utilized in her  
work as Cashier in the Customer Services veparmen:  
When the grievant retook the typing test on May 14, 1980, she failed a passing grade and was bypassed for the vacant position.  
The Union filed a grievance contending that Company had no right to require a retest al the grievant's typing skills and that once the grievant had  
qualified for the job in question, she remained qualified.  
Discussion  
The Review Committee, in discussing this case,-took notice of the fact that before the Clerical Agreement was changed in 1977, through  
General Negotiations, Subsection 18.5(b)(2}* provided that "Company may nevertheless reject the transfer request of any such employee who  
does not possess the ability to perform the duties of such classification and who has not demonstrated the qualifications required to progress in  
the Line of Progression of the classification which is vacant.” In thinking that this now-absent language might have a bearing on this case, the  
Committee reviewed the intent of the Negotiating Committees in removing this language from the Agreement. It was determined that the basic  
intent at that time was to remove the requirement of successfully completing the A.C.T. math test in order to transfer to certain jobs. The  
language was not removed to indicate that there was no longer a need to require a demonstration of certain appropriate work skills before  
awarding a vacancy in accordance with the transfer procedure.  
In the case at hand, over the two-year period since the grievant had taken the typing test, her typing skill had deteriorated and also the test  
had been changed. Both of these factors seemed to have an effect on the grievant's ability to pass the typing test. [It was also apparent that the  
one week's delay requested by the grievant to brush up her typing skill was not adequate.  
84  
The Company's members of the Review Committee opined that for two specific clerical skills, typing and shorthand, there was a valid need  
to test transfer applicants priar to awarding a job which primarily utilized these skills. The Union's members of the Committee agreed with the  
opinion noting that an employee, placed in a beginning level job, who did not possess the necessary skills of that classification could  
be subjected, at some point, to demotion or dismissal. However, the Union's members opined that for at least one year's time following testing, it  
could be reasonably assumed that ant employee would retain his/her tested skills at the same Sevel.  
Also discussed, in passing, was a recent Materials Department negotiated settlement relating to the right to utilize Company typewriters,  
either manual or electric, but not during work hours to sharpen typing skills prior to taking the typing test required for certain of the Material  
Department's jobs.  
Decision  
Taking all of the above inte consideration, the Review Committee determined that the job bypass of the grievant was not in Violation of the  
Agreement. However, in the future, any employee who, except those employees then classified as typist or stenographer, is the senior transfer  
applicant for a clerical job classification of typist or stenographer may be required by Company to pass a retest of such skills if more than one  
year's time has elapsed since the employee was Jast tested and met the minimum requirements for those skills.  
Also, at ihe employee's request, the retest and the award of the job for which the employee is being considered shall be pended for not  
more than 30 calendar days in order to allow the employee time to sharpen or improve the skills referred to above. Company shall notify the  
employee of this option at the time he/she is being considered for the job. During this 30-calendar-day period, the Company will make a  
typewriter available for typing practice on Company property but not necessarily during the employee’s work hours provided that there is a  
typewriter at that headquarters which is not in use. If at the end of the 30-day period, or sooner if the employee desires, the employee takes and  
fails the retest, such employee shall be bypassed for the job in question.  
The Review Committee, in going beyond this instant case, determines that an employee other than a typist or stenographer who is the  
senior bidder for a clerical job classification of typist or stenographer will be subject to the same rules and rights as specified in this "Decision."  
‘That is, the employee must have qualified on the appropriate typing or stenographic test within a one-year period of the date of consideration for  
a vacancy or must requalify under the same conditions stipulated above.  
This case is closed without adjustment.  
### FOR COMPANY: FOR UNION: — _  
L. C.Beanland | G. W. Abrahamson  
F.C. Buchholz Burr  
J. 8. Stoutamore P. Pelucca  
D, J. Bergman R. W. Stalcup  
By _/s/ David J. Bergman By  s/ Roger Sialcup  
Date_6-3-81 Date §-3-81  
*Effective 1/1/84, 15.5(b}(2) was changed to 18.5(c}(2).  
### REVIEW COMMITTEE DECISION  
Review COMMITTEE File Nos. 1005, 7009, 1028, 1030, 1325 and 1331  
Humbokd Division Grievance Nos. D.Gr/C 19-70-2, D.GrvC 19-70-6, and D.Gr/C 19-70-12  
North Bay Division Grievance Nos. D.Gr/C 4-70-7 and D.Gr/C 4-70-9  
Sacramento Division Grievance No. D.Gr/C-6-73-4  
East Bay Division Grievance No. D.Gr/C 1-73-4  
Subject of the Grievances  
Each of the grievances arose from similar facts. The grievants aré employees who are not headquartered at the location where the  
temporary upgrade occurred. At the headquarters where the temporary vacancy occurred, Cierk C's or D's were upgraded to fill Clerk A or B  
positions. There were no immediate next-lower classifications in any of the offices concerned in these grievances.  
The contention, then, of each of the grievants is that he or she should have been temporarily assigned to the location where the vacancy  
occurred inasmuch as each would have been the bidder if the vacancy had been permanent rather than temporary.  
Discussion  
The Clerical Labor Agreement specifically deals with the question of filling temporary vacancies in Subsection 18.3(a): “Whenever a  
vacancy occurs in any job classification, Company may temporarily fill it by assignment. In making temporary assignments to fil job vacancies  
other than vacancies in beginner's classifications, Company shall first consider regular full-time employees at the headquarters in which the job  
vacancy exists in the order of their preferential consideration under tion 18.8." (Emphasis added.) Further, in Exhibit A - Lines of  
Progression - Division Clerical Dapatiments, the following example of a temporary assignment is given: Temporary shall take place  
within the and headquarters in which the temporary vacancy exists provided ther next- o the v  
classification in such department and headquarters. {Emphasis added.) Temporary upgrades nto classifications on fhe is no next- eae  
classification to the vacancy within the department and headquarters shail be made in aecordance with the lines of progression.“  
As the facts paint out, in these particular offices there was no immediate next-lower classification to the vacant A or B positions. The  
question, then, involves the second sentence of the example, and the question specifically is whether this opens the appointment to persons  
outside of the headquarters, The language of the example is certainly not crystal clear. It could be read to mean that, if there is no person In an  
immediate lower classification to the one that is temporarily vacated, it must be filled from outside of the headquarters. To read the Exhibit this  
way, however, would, with regard to such assignments, conflict with the fiteral meaning of Subsection 18.3(a). That section, which is paramount  
to the example in any event, speaks in terms of the entire line of pragression to the temporary vacancy.  
In an effort to resolve the conflict, the Review Committee has taken into account several factors: {1) The promotional system is based on  
prebids from next-lower classifications within a Division assuming that the bidders are qualified. (2} The most common method for employees to  
attain the requisite skills and knowledge for promotion is temporary upgrades to higher classifications. (3) The extent of the Company's  
obligation to train employees for promotion. (4) In the filling of temporary vacancies, the Company is only obligated to give consideration to  
those senior employees who have prebids on file provided the assignment does not disrupt Company's operations to a point where it becomes  
impracticable to do so or the expense outweighs the Company's commitments to provide promotional training.  
86  
Decision  
For the foregoing reasons where there is no next-lower ciassification in the line of progression, it ts the decision of the Review Committee  
that: (1} Temporary upgrades for one basic workweek or less shall be made within the headquarters following the line of progression to  
successively lower classifications provided that such a person is qualified to handle the work of the higher classification to which the temporary  
appointment is being made and: {2) such temporary upgrades for more than one basic workweek shall be offered to the senior qualified  
prebidder within a disirict provided that such person resides within a commutabie distance (commutable distance" as used in this decision shall  
mean a temporary headquarters located not more than 45 minutes or 30 miles from his residence). in the application of item (2), the upgraded  
employee shall report to the temporary headquarters in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.8 of the Clerical Agreement. When the  
temporary assignment lasts for more than 60 consecutive calendar days, the upgraded employee will then be considered reporting to his  
"regularly established headquarters .“  
These grievances are closed without adjustment.  
   
### FOR UNION: COMPANY:  
W.H. Burr J.A. Fairchild  
E.R. Sheldon HJ. Stefanetti  
L.N. Foss L.V. Brown  
By /s/L.N. Foss By fs/L.V. Brown  
Date March 4, 1974 Date March 4, 1974  
87  
   
  
October 6, 1982  
Local Union No. 1245  
international Brotherhood of  
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
P.O. Box 4790  
Wainut Creek, California 94596  
Attention: Mr. Jack K. McNally, Business Manager  
Gentlemen:  
At the request of Local 1245, IBEW, the issue of an appropriate Clerical Job Evaluation System for certain classifications covered in the  
Agreement has been referred to arbitration in accordance with the settfement of the 1979/1980 negotiations and has been assigned Case No. 108.  
Company and Union have agreed that it is in the best interests of the employees involved, and the Company and Union, that a further effort be made to  
reach a mutual agreement on this matter through the bargaining process. itis, therefore, agreed that the arbitration procedure will be stayed under the  
following conditions:  
t. Consultant  
The Company and Union will jointly select and pay the consultation fees of a consultant, who will guide and make recommendations to the  
Committees representing both parties and attempt to establish a mutually acceptable Clerical sab Evaluation System for PGandE employees in  
Classifications listed in Item 3 below.  
2.  
Before implementation of any proposed Job Evaluation System, such system will be “validated” by being tested against a substantial number of  
benchmark jobs to the satisfaction of both parties.  
3% Guidelines  
The Committees and the consultant shall be guided by the foilawing principles:  
¢ The Job Evaluation System will apply to the following clerical classifications:  
a. Senior li level clericaf jobs.  
88  
6. Senior J level clerical jobs.  
c. Service Representatives, Operating Clerks, and Accounting Clerks.  
d. Utility Clerks (including Clerk D).  
e. Any other classifications in the clerical bargaining unit listed in Exhibit F which have wage progressions which are identical to those listed in a. through  
d. above.  
f. Any other office or clerical classification to which the Company and Union mutually agree.  
* The system be easy fo use and understand.  
¢ information regarding the system be available to ail parties, including individual emplo yees.  
e Alf parties be encouraged to participate including employees whose jobs are subject to evaluation.  
« Job evaluations are lo be based on the job and not on the employee who holds the job.  
e The system meet equal employment requirements.  
e There be an process.  
4. Employee Placement  
if in the application of the agreed-to Job Evaluation System it is determined that a particular position is to be reclassified downward, the incumbent  
employee will be red-circled at his/her current rate of pay and be subject to the conditions outlined in Paragraphs A or B below. However, if in the  
Department and office (Section in V.P. & Comptroller) where the inappropriately classified position has been identified, there are other equivalent  
positions, the red-circled employee may exchange duties with the least senior employee holding that classification. The junior employee would then  
assume the red-circled status and be subject to the conditions of Paragraphs A and B below.  
Alter implementation of an agreed-to Job Evaluation System, employees who, as a resulf of job reevaluation, are assigned a lower classification, will be  
red-circled at their current rate of pay under the following conditions:  
A. Customer Services and Operating Lines of Progression  
Once an employee has been red-circled at a rate of pay, he or she will be held at that rafe until reassigned to another classification equivalent to  
or higher than the current rate of pay within the same headquarters or he or she vacates the specific job for any other reason. ff, during the time  
an employee is red-circled and there are prebiddable vacancies within a commutable distance of the present headquarters (30 miles or 45  
&9  
minutes travel time under ordinary conditions), and the red-circled employee elects not to bid or turns down a job award more than once, such  
employee will be heid at the present rate of pay (excluding general wage increases) until such time as the rate established for their newly  
assigned classification equals or exceeds the red-circled rate. if two or more red-circled employees turn down the same job award, only the junior  
employee will be charged with a turndown. A red-citcled employee who prebids but is not the successful bidder to an equivalent classification  
within the area of commutable headquarters will continue to maintain the current rate plus future general wage increases.  
B, Accounting Line of Progression  
The conditions set forth in A above will apply to red-circled employees in the Comptroller's Department with the understanding that, ff a red-circled  
employee bids to another section to maintain his or her current rate of pay, such employee will have at least six months to become fully qualified,  
in the event the red-circled employee desires io bid back to his or her former section, the employee will not be subject to the six-month bar  
established for this Line of Progression by the letter agreement dated April 21, 1982 (82-4-PGE}.  
5. Arbitration  
At any time that either party believes that continuing negotiations will be fruitless, it may, upon written notice to the other party, again start the  
arbitration proceedings at the point where they stood at the time of the execution of this agreement. However, should the issue be referred back to  
arbitration, the arbitration date shail be set no earlier than 60 days following an exchange of all relevant information on both proposed systems.  
it you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this  
letter fo Company.  
Yours very truly,  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY  
By __ {WBonbright  
Manager of industrial Relations  
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL  
### BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO  
December 7, 1982 By __ Jack McNal  
Business Manager  
90  
87-78-PGE  
May 1, 1987  
Union No. 1245  
international Brotherhood of  
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
P, O. Box 4790  
Walnut Creek, California 94596  
Attention: Mr. Jack McNaily, Business Manager  
  
In accordance with the provisions of Attachment A of the 1979 Negotiations Settlement, the parties have mutually established a Clerical Position Evaluation  
System to replace the Clencal Cross-Hatch Index. The time limits set forth in Attachment A were mutually extended by Letter Agreement 82-114-PGE.  
Enciosed with this letter are:  
1. The cut-off point determination agreement. The employee population mix referenced in the second paragraph is 5.5% “A” fevel  
classifications, 10.4% “B” level classifications, 41.6% “C" level classifications and 4.2.5% “D” level classifications in the initial system  
study population.  
2. The Administrative Guide for the Clerical Position Evatuation System.  
The commitment established during the 1979 General Negotiations was to reevaluate all of the former Review When Vacant {RW V) jobs prior to any others.  
At the time this agreement was reached, neither Company nor Union was in a position to predict what the essential elements of the new job evaluation system  
would be. At the conclusion of negotiations in which the parties established the elements of the system, an initial implementation agreement was negotiated. A  
copy of that agreement is included in the Administrative Manual as an Appendix. As is provided in the implementation agreement, all covered employees will be  
required to complete a Position Evaluation Questionnaire during the System Study-Data Gathering phase. No jobs will be impacted by the new job evaluation  
system until the System Study is completed. Because the System Study will include all positions that are filiad, all employees who are in those positions that were  
formerly designated “Review When Vacant’ will be evaluated at the same time as all other positions. ft has, therefore, been agreed that it is unnecessary to treat  
the formerly positions any differently than other positions.  
it is anticipated that following the System Study, it may not be possible to process all of the appeals within the time limits established in  
Chapter Vi of the Administrative Manual. Therefore, by mutual agreement, the parties may extend the time periods specified for the processing  
of appeals. However, the parties may not agree to extend the time period specified for filing an appeal.  
Further, since the Gas Chart Calculator positions do not meet the requirements established for positions that wilf be evaluated by the  
system, the parties agreed that Gas Chart Calculator positions be excluded from evaluation using the Clerical Position Evaluation system.  
91  
lt is proposed that this Clerical Position Evaluation system be effective upon the execution date of this agreement and continue in effect until amended by  
mutual agreement, or until either party has given to the other 30 days’ written notice of its termination.  
if you are in accord with the foregoing and the attachments and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return  
one executed copy of this letter to the Company.  
Yours very truly,  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTAIC COMPANY -  
By fWBonbright  
Manager of industrial Flelations  
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and the attachments and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL  
### BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO  
May 15, 1987 By Jack McNally  
Business Manager  
92  
&89-80-PGE  
May 30, 1989  
oca/ Union No, 1245  
international Brotherhood af  
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
Box 4790  
Wainut Creek, CA 94596  
Attention: Mr. Jack Business Manager  
Gentiemen:  
This confirms the understanding reached by the Clerical Position Evaluation Committee on March 29, 1989. In reaching this  
agreement, the Company and Union reaffirmed their commitment to the productive implementation and continued of this system.  
1} The position evaluation system is available immediately for use on vacancies, new positions, arid position and/or duty changes resulting  
from future office consolidations.  
2) The position evaluation system will be tully implemented and thereafter available for use, in accordance with Letter Agreements F1-82-111  
and 87-78, as follows:  
Regions and General Office Operating - December 1, 1989 (Customer Services & Operating Lines of Progressions}  
Controller's and Customer Accounting - May 1, 1890 {Accounting Line of Progression)  
3) Company will review alf PEQs prior to implemeniation. To help minimize disruption, Company will, prior to implementation dates listed in  
item 2) above, identify opportunities to reorganize work so that employees’ duties match current classifications. Company will give equal  
attention to restructuring duties where positions have been downgraded as to where positions have been upgraded. Actual decisions to  
reorganize will be made by management.  
if you are in accord with the foregoing and agree ihereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed  
copy of this letter to the Company.  
Very truly yours,  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY  
By s/Richard B. Bradford  
Manager of industrial Relations  
93  
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL  
### WORKERS, AFL-CIO  
June 22, 1989 By siJack McNally  
nj Business Manager  
### SAMPLE —  
July 11, 1989  
### VAAIOUS  
### REGION HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT  
Clerical Position Evaluation System  
### CLERICAL BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES;  
(Operating and Customer Service tines of progression)  
The Company and Union recently agreed to the implementation process for the Clerical Position Evaluation System. The system will be implemented on  
December 1, 1989 in the Operating and Customer Services lines of progression, and on May 1, 1990 for the Accounting line of progression. Additional time was  
allowed for the Accounting progression to accommodate change occurring in these positions. Employees prepared the initial descriptions of their jobs on the  
Position Evaluation Questionnaire form (PEQ) in #987. If a PEQ was prepared for your position, it is attached for you to update as necessary to ensure that the  
most current information is used in the fina! evaluation. A new PEQ must be prepared if one does not already exist for your position. Please follow the steps  
below and work with your supervisor to update or prepare new PEQ's:  
Review the PEQ for accuracy.  
Revise the PEQ as needed or write a new PEQ if significant change has occurred.  
Write a PEQ if one does not exist.  
Aleturn the new or revised PEQ fo your supervisor by  
  
PEQ forms, instructions and benchmark duty statements are available fram your supervisor or local Human Resources Department.  
After review, the new and revised PEQ’s wilf be evaluated for proper classification. The implementation agreement provides for reorganization of  
duties to minimize disruption and maintain job classifications to the extent possible. You will be notified of the evaluation results prior to the  
effective date for your line of progression.  
94  
Please do not hesitate to discuss any questions with your supervisor or Human Resources Representative. Your IBEW Business Representative  
and Shop Steward are also available.  
We appreciate your efforts and cooperation during this transition phase. We are looking forward to a successful introduction of this iong-awaited  
system.  
### REGION HR MANAGER  
(initials)  
cc: HA Manager  
(other line management as appropriate)  
Attachment (if available)  
95  
90-43-PGE  
March 6, 1990  
Local Union No. 1245  
international Brotherhood of  
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
P.O. Box 4790  
Walnut Creek, CA 94596  
Aitention: Mr. Jack McNally, Business Manager  
Gentlemen:  
Pursuant fo recent discussions between Roger Stalcup of your staff and Sara Johnsan af my staff, Company proposes the follawing as a  
clarification of Letter Agreement A1-82-111-PGE dated Ociober 6, 1982.  
The language concerning red-circied treatment for employees in the Customer Services, Operating and Accounting Lines-of-progression shall be  
applied as follows:  
Upon having their position red-circled, an employee will receive progressive wage increases and general wage increases until they are  
. feassigned fo a non-red-circied position, bidAranster to another position, or turn down or decline to bid to a position, more than ence,  
that is no more than 30 miles or 45 minutes from their residence. Following the occurrence of any of the above listed situations, such  
employee will no longer receive progressive wage increases or general wage increases until they either move to a non-red-circled  
position or the wage rate established for their newly assigned Classification equais or exceeds their red-circied rate.  
Further, for purposes of this agreement, prebids that must be exercised to avaid being heid at the present wage rate are only Subsection 18.8(a)  
or (b) bids.  
in addition, fo avoid placing a hardship on employees who may be impacted by the provisions of Letter Agreement A1-82-111, the following  
modification to said agreement is proposed. The words “present headquarters” contained in Section 4, A. shail be replaced with the word  
‘residence.” As revised, then, Section 4. A. of Letter Agreement F'1-82-111, would stale, in part ... and there are prebiddable vacancies within a  
commutable distance between the employee’s residence and the prospective headquarters (30 miles or 45 minutes travel time under ordinary  
conditions), and the employee elects not to bid .. ,  
Far the purposes of this agreement, the residence shail be the place of abode for the employee on the date the red-circle designation is assigned  
io the pasition. While a red-circled employee may change the location of his or her residence, the commutable distance ta a prospective  
headquarters shail continue to be based upon the residence of record on the date the red-circie designation was assigned to the position.  
Further, it is understood that the residence requirement contained in the modified section 4. A. (or Letter Agreement R1-82-111) does not apply  
to employees jocated in the Generaf Office complex, as the intent of said language is for employees who traveling to a new headquarters.  
96  
With respect to this specific agreement and Letter Agreement employees working in the Generel Office complex are considered to be  
at one headquarters.  
Regarding the Clerical Pasition System Appeals Procedure, as detailed in Chapter Vi of the Administrative Guide, Section C - Local  
Investigating Committee/Step Three, it is understood that the Shop Steward will be designated by Local 1245 to serve as a second Union  
member to the LIC, on a Region-wide basis.  
if you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this  
fetter to the Company. |  
Very truly yours,  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY  
By __ Richard 8. Bradford_ _  
Manager of industrial Relations  
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL  
### BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS,  
April 24, 1990 By __ Jack MeNafl  
Business Manager  
ny  
97  
### EXHIBIT B  
### EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE  
### LETTER AGREEMENT NO. 93-121-PGE  
December 8, 1993  
Local Union No. 1245  
International Brotherhood of  
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
P.O. Box 4790  
Walnut Creek, CA -  
Attention: Mr. Jack McNally  
Gentlemen:  
Company proposes to amend the Educational Assistance Program (Exhibit ! of the Physical Agreement and Exhibit B  
of the Clerical Agreement) as attached, effective January 1, 1994. The proposed amendments will provide  
employees with payment in advance from PG&E to approved educational institutions. Under this proposal, qualified  
employees will receive payment in advance by an Official Tuition Voucher as direct payment to the institution for  
tuition and covered fees. Additional minor “clean-up” changes ta Exhibit | are also contained within the attached  
proposal.  
If you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please SO indicate in the space provided below and return  
one executed copy of this letter to the Company. -  
Yours vary truly, !  
### PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY  
By, /s/David J. Bergman |  
Director and Chief Negotiator  
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and agrees thereto as of the date hereof.  
### LOCAL UNION 1245, INTERNATIONAL .  
### BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL  
### WORKERS, AFL-CiO  
March 7, 1994 By: /s/Jack McNally  
Business Manager  
98  
   
The Company shail provide a program of partial reimbursement for tuition and required textbooks, as fotiows:  
Eligibifity  
A. Any regular full-time employee on the active payroll of the Company, except employees in an rentice  
classification covered by the provisions of the Master Apprenticaship Agreement, is eligible to in  
the plan. on Long Term Disability may be eligible for as determined on a case-  
by-case basis. Qualified employees may apply for payment in advance to the school. .  
B. Courses must be accredited by one of the following:  
O One of the six Regional Associations of Schools and Colleges through a regular program of instruction, a  
correspondence program, an extension division, or an evening division;  
D0 The California Department of Education. |  
O The of Accredited Private Home Study Schools approved by the Accrediting Commission of  
the National Home Study Council; or, en  
O Schools selected by the Company  
Approved courses are those that add to your effectiveness in your job. Courses that contribute to your overall  
geveicprment may also be approved.  
C. Proof of successful completion of an approved course with a grade of “C” (or equivalent) or better in each  
course Is required in order to qualify for a tuition refund.  
D. Employees eligible for State or Federal Assistance will be reimbursed the difference between the  
reimbursement percent and PG&E's.  
F, Attendance at these courses shall not interfere with the requiar working hours of the employee.  
Procedure  
O An employee who desires to receive tuition refund must submit a pt ie Tuition Refund application to  
his/her supervisor for approval, prior to enrollment in a course of study. The completed Tuition Refund  
application must contain details of the course for which payment in advance will be sought and if the  
employee is qualified for financial assistance through a Federal or State Education Assistance, an  
outline of those program benefits must be attached. ~ . :  
[1 Employees should submit this request for approval atleast 30 days prior to the'enrollment date to allow  
ample time for processing.» ro os  
1 Upon review and approval of the Tuition Refund Application, employees will receive payment_in advance by  
an Official Tuition Voucher in the amount of tuition and fees and a Textbook Reimbursement Form within the  
established employee reimbursement limit as direct payment to the institution for tuition and covered fees.  
0 The employee must provide proof of successful completion of an approved course with a grade of °C” (or  
equivalent} or better, in each course, and copies of receipts indicating moneys paid for textbooks, within 30  
calendar days to the Plan Office. ..  
O if an employee has received payment in advance and does not successfully complete the course within one  
year from the term ending date or does not provide passing grades or proot of satisfactory completion within  
120 calendar days of the end of the course, he/she is responsible for repayment to RG&E of the tuition and  
fees advanced. This requirement will be waived in the event the employee is unable to complete an  
approved course due to Company initiated transfer or excessive mandatory overtime, .  
Payment In Advance  
Payment in advance for approved courses of study will be provided at a rate of 75 percent or 90 percent of direct  
costs. Direct only io registration fees, tuition, required textbooks, laboratory fees, and other charges  
made by the institution. Costs of material and equipment purchased separately by the employee are not covered.  
A. Refunds under the current Tuition Refund Program will be made only for those approved coursed begun on  
or after January 1, 1971. Payment in advance under the revised Tuition Refund Program will be. provided  
only for those approved courses begun on or after January 1, 1994.  
B. Where the institution includes the costs of textbooks and/or supplies in its charges or fees, a refund of 75  
percent of the direct costs will be made (e.g., ICS, La Salle, etc.).  
99  
   
C. In all other cases, a refund of 90 percent of the direct cost charged by the institution will be made (e.g., City or  
State Colleges, Heald's etc.}.  
D. Payment in advance will be mada only for courses in which ragular employee enrolled after completion of six  
months or more of continuous service. Employees who voluntarily terminate employment with PG&E or are  
discharged for cause must repay PG&E for any tuition and fees advanced. ©  
E. There is an annual imit of $1,200 per erriployee per calendar year. Requests for in excess of this  
limit will be considered only if: =  
t. The course or courses are of a special nature, and  
2. Such course or courses are not available elsewhere, and .  
-  
3. Itis unlikely that such course or courses will be the foreseeable future.  
### EXHIBIT C  
(Deleted 1-1-00)  
### EXHIBIT D  
### LETTER AGREEMENT 87-165-PGE  
### PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT. COMMITTEES  
August 17, 1987  
Pacific Gas and Electric Company a,  
245 Market Street  
San Francisco, CA 94106 .  
Attention: Mr. 1. W. Bonbright, Manager of industrial Relations  
Gentlemen: a oy er es oe  
This letter shall supersede Letter Agreement No. 87:83-PGE.. | - ° 7 a  
Since January 1987, Company and Union have had discussions regarding a work efficiency experiment at  
the District headquarters in Livermore, California. We have also previously discussed preliminary plans for similar  
irials at other locations. in-order to. provide a consistent approach to the Livermore experiment and to other work  
~  
.  
efficiency experiments, the Union proposes that tha Manager of Industrial Retations and the IBEW Business erg  
May agree to ihe establishment of individual work efficiency experiments and that the following ‘conditions  
applicable:  
4. Company and Union may agree locally to the specific conditions of each experiment including the  
criteria to be used to judge the productivity and the Quality of the work, excepi that changes in the conditions of any  
Labor Agreement requires an agreement between the Manager of Industrial Relations and the appropriate Union  
Business Manager(s).. ne " os ‘  
2. Fach experiment will have an Advisory Committee to consist of Company members, IBEW  
members, Engineers and Scientists of Califomia, MEBA, and at least one consultant to be agreed to by the parties.  
The number and size of the Advisory Commitiee shalt be determined by the Committee.  
3,_° Each experiment wilt have a local Steering Committee_and:a consuliant to be agreed to by the  
parties. The size of this committee is_to be determined locally.. The Steering ‘Committee may utilize  
representaiives from various departments on a basis, as they deem appropriate. .  
4, Upon completion of the experiment, any modified bargaining unit work assignments agreed to during  
the experiment will be returned to the original unit,  
5. There will be no layoffs for lack of work or demotions for lack of work in the headquarters in which  
the experiment is located during the period of the experiment. — .  
6, During the experiment, local supervision and the employees involved shall be responsible for getting  
work done in a timely manner using all available resources, ~ .  
7. Any party to an individual work efficiency agreement may cancel the agreement upon 30 days’ notice  
to the other party(s). oy  
if you are in accord with the toregoin and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and  
retum one executed copy of this letter to the Union.  
100  
Very truly yours,  
### LOCAL UNION 1245, IBEW  
By /si Jack McNally  
Business Manager  
The Company is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereot.  
### | PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY  
1 September, 1987 By |. Wayland Bonbright  
Manager of industrial Relations  
101  
### EXHIBIT F  
### PACIFIC GAS ANO ELECTRIC COMPANY  
### STANDARD WAGE RATES - FORTY-HOUR WORKWEEK BASIS  
Effective June 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005  
### CLERICAL AND OFFICE CLASSIFICATIONS - WEEKLY  
### REPRESENTED BY LOCAL UNION NO. 1245 OF  
### INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO  
### CLASSIFICATION  
2641  
2723  
2642  
2761  
2645  
2763  
2766  
2646  
2767  
2650  
2789  
2788  
2653  
2654  
2797  
2811  
2635  
2813  
2586  
Senior Service Representative II  
Senior Operating Clerk Il  
Senior Accounting Clerk H  
Senior Service Representative - Steno ll  
Senior Operating Clerk-Steno II (PfQ)  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Steno It  
Senior Service Representative - Typist li  
Senior Operating Clerk Il - Typist il  
Senior Accounting Cierk-Typist II  
Senior Service Representative |  
Senior Operating Clerk |  
Senior Accounting Clerk 3  
Senior Service Representative - Steno |  
Senior Operating Clerk-Steno | (P/O)  
Senior Accounting Clerk-Steno t (F/O)  
Senior Service Representative - Typist |  
Senior Operating Clerk- Typist |  
Senior Accounting Clerk- Typist |}  
Senior Service Planning Cierk |  
### RATES EFFECTIVE |  
PROGRESSION 6-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005  
Start 1073.70 1116.65 1161.35  
End 6 Mo 1096.90 1140.80 1186.45  
End 1 Yr 4120.35 1165.20 1211.85  
End 18 Mo 4144.10 1189.90 1237.50  
Start 1038.35 1079.90 1123,19  
End 6 Mo 1056.05 1098.30 1142.25  
End 1 Yr 1073.70 1116.65  
102  
### CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION  
2660 Service Representative  
2661 Accounting Clerk  
2662 Operating Clerk  
2663 Service Representative - Steno (P/O)  
2664 Operating Clerk-Sjeno (P/Q}  
2665 Accounting Clerk-Steno (PIO}  
2666 Service Representative-Typist  
2667 Operating Clerk-Typist  
2873 Accounting Clerk-Typist  
2697 Machine Operator  
2587 Service Planning Clerk  
2769 Service Aepresentative and Meter Reader  
2703 E&P Operating Clerk (PIO)  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
End 42 Mo  
End 4 Yr  
2697 Machine Operators designated as trainers receive 5% upgrade pay.  
103  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
6-1-2003  
783.65  
829.50  
875.30  
900.85  
926.50  
952.10  
978.10  
1003.20  
1038.35  
1-1-2004  
815.00  
BE2.70  
ann Ih  
002./U  
910.35  
963.60  
990.20  
1017.25  
1043.35  
  
t-1-2005  
847.60  
897.25  
837.25  
946.80  
1002.15  
$029.85  
1057.95  
1085.10  
1123.10  
   
### CLASSIFICATION PROGAESSION  
2675  
2676  
2677  
2679  
2680  
2681  
2683  
2684  
2685  
2689  
2588  
Utility Clerk - Customer Services, Marketing  
Utility Clerk - Operating  
Utility Clerk - Accounting  
Utility Clerk-Steno - Customer Services, Marketing (P#Q)  
Utility Clark-Steno - Operating (P/Q)  
Utility Clerk-Steno - Accounting (PIO)  
Utility Clerk-Typist - Customer Services, Marketing  
Utilty Clerk-Typist - Operating  
Utility Clerk-Typist - Accounting  
Utility Machine Operator  
Utuity Clerk - Service Planning  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
End 42 Mo  
End 4 Yr  
Hiring rates for the above classifications are based on experience and  
limited to wage progressions Start through End 30 Mo.  
The above rates apply to emplayees hired 10-1-88 and  
after.  
104  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
6-1-2003  
458.20  
490.78  
527.30  
581.20  
635,25  
689.05  
713.65  
737.85  
783.65  
1-1-2004  
476.55  
510.40  
948,40  
604.45  
660.70  
716.65  
742.20  
767.40  
815.00  
1-1-2005  
495.65  
530.85  
§70.35  
628.65  
687.15  
745.35  
771.90  
798.10  
847.60  
   
### CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION  
2675  
2676  
2677  
2679  
2680  
2681  
2683  
2684  
2685  
2689  
Utility Clerk - Customer Services, Marketing  
Utility Clerk - Operating  
Utility Clerk - Accounting  
Utility Clerk-Steno - Customer Services, Masketing  
Utility Clerk-Steno - Operating  
Utility Clerk-Steno - Accounting  
Utility Cierk-Typist - Customer Services, Marketing  
Utility Clerk-Typist - Operating  
Utitity Clerk-Typist - Accounting  
Utility Machine Operator  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
Hiring rates for the above classifications are based on experience and  
limited io wage progressions Start through End 30 Mo,  
The above rates apply to employees hired 1-1-83 through  
9-30-88,  
105  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
6-4-2003  
602.45  
645.05  
689.05  
713.65  
737,85  
783.65  
1-1-2004  
626.55  
670.85  
716.65  
742.20  
767.40  
815.00  
1-1-2005  
651.65  
697.70  
745.35  
771.90  
798.10  
847.60  
   
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
CLASSIFICATION | PROGRESSION 6-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005  
2675 —_— Utility Clerk - Customer Services, Marketing  
2676 Utility Clerk - Operating  
2677 ~—_ Utility Clerk - Accounting  
2679 Utility Clerk-Steno - Customer Services, Marketing  
2680 Clerk-Steno - Operating  
2681 Utility Clerk-Steno - Accounting  
2683 Utility Clerk-Typist - Customer Services, Marketing  
2684 —_ Utility Clerk-Typist - Operating  
2685 Utility Clerk-Typist - Accounting  
2689 Utility Machine Operator  
Start 640.95 666.60 693.30  
End 6 Mo 665.00 691.60 719.30  
End 1 Yr 689.05 716.65 745.35  
End 18 Mo 713.65 742.20 771,90  
End 2 Yr 797.85 767.40 798.10  
End 30 Mo 783.65 815.00 847.60  
Hiring rates for the above classifications are based on expertence and  
limited to wage progressions Start through End 30 Mo.  
The above rates apply to employees hired 12-31-82 and  
before.  
### CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION  
2805 Machine Operator B {PIO)  
2880 Clerk D - Customer Services, Marketing  
2881 Clerk D - Operating  
2882 Clerk D - Comptroller  
2885  Clerk-Steno D - Customer Services, Marketing  
2886 Clerk-Steno D - Operating  
2887 = Clerk-Steno D - Comptroller  
2890 Clerk-Typist D - Customer Services, Marketing  
2891 Clerk-Typist D - Operating  
2892  Clerk-Typist D - Comptroller  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
The above rates apply to employees hited 1-1-76 through  
1-31-80.  
2805 Machine Operator B (PIO)  
2480 Clerk 0 - Customer Services, Marketing  
2881 = Clerk D - Operating  
2882 = Clerk D - Comptroller  
2885  Clerk-Steno D - Customer Services, Marketing  
2886  Clerk-Steno D- Operating  
2887 Clerk-Steno D - Comptraller  
2890  Clerk-Typist D - Customer Services, Marketing  
2891 D - Operating  
2892  Clerk-Typist D - Compwoller  
End 3 Yr  
End 42 Mo  
End 4 Yr  
End 54 Mo  
The above rates apply io employees hired 12-31-75 and  
befare.  
107  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
6-1-2003  
665.00  
689.05  
713.65  
737.85  
783.65  
829,50  
875.30  
854.60  
$75.30  
895.55  
921,90  
1-1-2004  
691.60  
716.65  
742.20  
767.40  
815.00  
862.70  
910.35  
888.80  
910.38  
931.40  
958.80  
1-1-2005  
719.30  
745.35  
771.90  
798.10  
847.60  
897.25  
946.80  
924.35  
946.80  
968.70  
997.15  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 6-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2008  
   
2760 Credit Representative  
2770 = Credit Representative and Meter Reader  
Start 961.05 999.50 1039.50  
End 6 Mo 1030.60 1071.85 1414.75  
End 1 Yr 1060.65 4103.10 1147.25  
2772 Meter Reader and Utility Clerk (Hired 10-1-38  
and after)  
Start 659.30 685.70 713.46  
End 6 Mo 740,16 769.70 800.50  
End 1 Yr 820.80 B53.65 887.80  
End 18 Mo 901.50 937,60 976.10  
End 2 Yr 929.00 966.20 1004.85  
End 30 Mo 957.05 995.35 1035.20  
2772 Meter Reader and Utility Clerk (Hired 1-71-83  
through 9-30-88)  
Start 73,40 789.55 §14.90  
End 6 Ma 825.75 858.80  
End 1 Yr 901.50 937.60 975.10  
End 18 Mo 929.00 966:20 1004.85  
End 2 Yr 957.05 995.35 | 035.20  
2772 Meter Reader and Utility Clerk (Hired 12-31-82  
and before)  
Start 802.30 834.40 867.80  
End 6-Mo 852.00 © 886.10 921.55  
End 1 Yr 901.50 937.60 975.10  
End 18 Mo 929.00 966.20 1004.85  
End 2 Yr 957.05 995.35 1036.20  
2773 = Mail Clerk Driver (General Office, Building  
Department) .  
Start 927.35 964.45 1003.05  
End 6 Mo 954.30 992.50 1032.20  
108  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 6-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005  
2807 Data Entry Operator (Hired 10-1-88 and after)  
Start 527.30 548.40 570.35  
End 6 Mo 581.20 604.45 628.65  
End 1 Yr | 635.25 660.70 687,15  
End 18 Mo 689.05 716.65 745.35  
End 2 Yr 713.65 742.20 771.90  
End 30 Mo 737.85 767.40 798.10  
End 3 Yr 783.65 815.00 847,60  
End 42 Mo 929.50 862.70 897.25  
End 4 Yr 875.30 910.35 946.80  
End 54 Mo 900.85 936.90 974.40  
End 5 Yr 926.50 963.60 1002.15  
End 66 Mo 952.10 990.20 1029.85  
End 6 Yr 978.10 1017.25 1057.95  
End 78 Mo 1003.20 1043.35 1085.10  
Hiring rate for Data Entry Operator based on experience and limited to  
wage progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
2807 Data Entry Operator (Hired 1-1-83 through 9-30-88)  
Stan 602.45 626.55 651.65  
End 6 Mo 645.05 670,85 697.70  
End 1 Yr 689.05 716,85 745,35  
End 18 Mo 713.65 742.20 771.90  
End 2 Yr 737.85 767.40 798.10  
End 30 Mo 783.65 815.00 847.60  
End 3 Yr 829.50 862.70 897.25  
End 42 Mo 875.30 910.35 946.80  
End 4 Yr 900.85 936.90 974.40  
End 54 Mo 926.50 963.60 4002.15  
End 5 Yr 952.10 990.20 1029.85  
End 66 Mo 978.10 1017.25 1057.95  
End 6 Yr $003.20 1043.35 1085.10  
Hiring rate for Data Entry Operator based on experience and limited to  
wage progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
### CLASSIFICATION  
2807 Data Entry Operator (Hired 12-31-82 and before)  
### PROGRESSION  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
- End2 yr  
End 36 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
End 42 Mo  
End 4 Yr  
End 54 Mo  
End 5 ¥r  
End 66 Mo  
End 6 Yr  
Hiring rate for Data Entry Operator based on experience and limited to  
wage progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
2808 Lead Data Entry Operator  
2879 Senior Computer Operator  
2779 Computer Operator |-A (Incumbents only)  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
start  
End 6 Mo  
Applies to incumbent Computer Console Operators who were at the $540.75  
wage rate on 6-30-82. (See Leiter Agreement 82-80-PGE)  
2878 Computer |  
Start  
End 6.Mo  
End t ¥r  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 2 Yr wage progression considered as top rate for bidding purposes.  
110  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
6-1-2003  
640.95  
665.00  
689.05  
713.65  
737.85  
783.65  
829.50  
$75.30  
900,85  
926.50  
952.10  
978.10  
1003,20  
1003.20  
1026.40  
1049.65  
1073.70  
1096.90  
1120.35  
1144.10  
1154.10  
1003.20  
1026.40  
1049.65  
1073,70  
1096.90  
1-1-2004  
666.60  
691.60  
716.65  
742.20  
767.40  
$15.00  
862.70  
910.35  
936.90  
963.60  
990,20  
1017.25  
1043.35  
1043.35  
1067.50  
  
1116.65  
1140.80  
1165.20  
1189.90  
1200.30  
1043.35  
1067.50  
1091.65  
1116.65  
1146.80  
1-1-2005  
693.30  
719.30  
745.35  
771.90  
798.10  
847.60  
897.25  
946.80  
974.40  
1002.15  
1029.85  
1057.95  
1085.10  
1085.10  
1110.20  
1135.35  
1161.35  
1186.45  
1271.85  
1237.50  
1248.35  
1085.10  
1110.20  
1135.35  
1161.35  
1186.45  
### CLASSIFICATION  
2877  
2875  
Computer Operator II  
### PROGRESSION  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
Computer Operator if at End 30 Mo wage progression will automatically progress  
ta next higher classification after six months at top rate of classification and  
successful completion of appropriate training course.  
Computer Operator Ill (Hired 10-1-88 and after)  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
Hiring rate for Computer Operator Il] based an experience and limited to  
wage progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
Computer Operator Ill at End 3 Yr wage progression will automatically Progress  
to next higher classification after six months at top rate of classification and  
successful completion of appropriate training course.  
End 30 Mo wage progression considered top rate of pay for Computer  
Operator Il.  
111  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
6-1-2003  
829.50  
875.30  
900.85  
926.50  
952.10  
979.10  
527.30  
581.20  
638.25  
689.05  
713,65  
737.85  
783.65  
1-1-2004  
862.70  
910.35  
936.90  
963.60  
990.26  
1017.25  
548.40  
604.45  
660,70  
716.65  
742.20  
767.40  
815.00  
1-1-2005  
897.25  
946.80  
974.40  
1002.15  
1029.85  
1057.95  
970.35  
628.65  
687.15  
745,35  
771.90  
798.10  
847.60  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
### CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 6-1-2003 1-1-2004  
2875 Computer Operator lil (Hired 1-1-83 through 9-30-88)  
2875  
Start 602,45 §26.55  
End 6 Mo 645.05 670.85  
End 1 Yr 689,05 716.65  
End 18 Ma 713.65 742.20  
End 2 Yr 737.85 767.40  
End 30 Mo 783.65 815.00  
Hiring rate for Computer Operator Itl based on experience and limited to  
wage progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
Computer Operator [ll at End 30 Mo wage progression will automatically pragress  
to next higher classification after six months at top rate of classification and  
successful completion of appropriate training course.  
End 30 Mo wage progression considered top rate of pay for Computer Operator Ill.  
Computer Operator Ill (Hired 12-31-82 and beiore)  
Start 640.95 666.60  
End 6 Mo 665.00  —«-691.60  
End 1 Y¢ 689,05 716,65  
End 18 Mo 713.65 742.20  
End 2 Yr 737,85 767.40  
End 30 Mo 783.65 815.00  
Hiring rate for Computer Operator III based on experience and limited to  
Wage Progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
Computer Operator at End 30 Mo wage progression will automatically progress  
to next higher classification alter six months at top rate of classification and  
successful completion of appropriate training course.  
End 30 Mo wage progression considered top rate of pay for Computer Operator III.  
112  
1-1-2005  
651.65  
697.70  
745.35  
771.90  
798.10  
847.4  
693.30  
719,30  
745.35  
771,90  
798,10  
847.60  
### CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION  
2876  
2731  
2732  
2733  
Computer Operator  
Classification & Wage rate for personnel who transfer or bid  
into classification from wage rate greater than 30-month  
Step  
Word Processing Operator-Customer Services,  
Marketing (Hired 10-1-88 and after)  
Word Processing Operator-Operating (Hired 10-1-88  
and after}  
Word Processing Operator-Accounting (Hired 10-1-88  
and after)  
Start  
End 6 Ma  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
End 42 Mo  
End 4 Yr  
End 54 Mo  
Hiring rate for Word Processing Operators based on experience and limited to  
wage progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
113  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
6-1-2003  
  
527.30  
581,20  
635.25  
689.05  
743.65  
737.85  
783.65  
829.50  
875.30  
900,85  
1-1-2004  
862.70  
548.40  
604.45  
660.70  
716.65  
742.20  
767.40  
815.00  
862.70  
910.35  
936.90  
1-1-2005  
897.25  
570.35  
628.65  
687.15  
745.35  
771.9  
798,10  
847,60  
897.25  
946.80  
974,40  
### CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION  
2731  
2732  
2733  
2731  
2732  
e733  
Word Processing Operator-Customer Services,  
Marketing (Hired 1-71-83 through 9-30-88}  
Word Processing Operator-Operating (Hired 1-1-83  
through 9-30-88}  
Word Processing Operator-Accounting (Hired 1-1-83  
through 9-30-88}  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
End 42 Mo  
End 4 Yr  
Hiring rate for Word Processing Operator based on experience and limited to  
wage progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
Word Processing Operator-Customer Services,  
Marketing (Hired 12-31-82 and before)  
Word Processing Operator-Operating (Hired 12-31-82  
and before)  
Word Processing Operator-Accounting (Hired 12-31-82  
and before}  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
End 42 Mo  
End 4 Yr  
Hiring rate for Word Processing Operator based on experience and limited to  
wage progression Start through End 2 Yr.  
114  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
8-1-2008  
602.45  
645.08  
689.05  
713.65  
737,85  
783.65  
829.50  
875.30  
900.85  
640.95  
665.00  
689.05  
713.65  
737,85  
783.65  
829.50  
875.30  
900.85  
1-1-2004  
626.55  
670.85  
716.65  
742.20  
767,40  
815.00  
862.70  
910,35  
936.90  
666.60  
691.60  
716.65  
742.20  
767.40  
815.00  
862.70  
910.35  
936.90)  
t-1-2005  
651.65  
697.70  
748,35  
### THM  
798.10  
847,60  
897.25  
974,40  
693.30  
719.30  
745,35  
771.90  
798.10  
847.60  
897.25  
946.80  
974.40  
   
### CLASSIFICATION  
### PROGRESSION  
### REPROGRAPHICS SECTION  
4906 Reprographics Job Coordinator  
7003 Senior Reprographics Operator  
7004 Reprographics Operator A  
7005 Reprographics Operator B (Hired 10-1-88 and after)  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
Start  
End 6 Ma  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
Start  
End 6 Mo  
End 1 Yr  
End 18 Mo  
End 2 Yr  
End 30 Mo  
End 3 Yr  
End 42 Mo  
End 4 Yr  
115  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
6-1-2003  
1038.35  
1059.60  
1081.15  
1098.90  
4120.35  
993.75  
1012,05  
1041.30  
1066.85  
1096.90  
881.50  
919.80  
937.25  
955.90  
974.15  
993.75  
1012.05  
612,90  
677.60  
742.25  
806.75  
821.60  
836.35  
851.30  
866.45  
881.50  
1-1-2004  
  
1102.00  
1124.40  
1442.90  
1165.20  
1033.50  
1052.55  
1082.95  
1109.55  
1140.80  
916.80  
956.60  
974.70  
994.15  
1013.15  
1033.50  
1052.55  
637.45  
704.70  
774,95  
839,05  
854.50  
869.80  
885.35  
901.10  
916.80  
1-1-2005  
1123,10  
1146.10  
1169.40  
1188.65  
1211.85  
4074.85  
1094.70  
1126.30  
1153.95  
1186.45  
953.50  
994.90  
1013.70  
1033.95  
1053.70  
1074.85  
1094.65  
662.95  
732.90  
802.85  
872.65  
888,70  
904.60  
920.80  
937.15  
953.50  
### RATES EFFECTIVE  
   
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 6-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005  
7005 Reprographics Operator B (Hired 1-1-83 through 9-30-88}  
Start 700.35 728.40 757.55  
End 6 Mo 768.00 798.75 830.70  
End 1 Yr 806.75 839.05 872.65  
End 18 Mo 821.60 854.50 888.70  
End 2 Yr 836.35 869.80 904.60  
End 30 Mo 851.30 885,35 920.80  
End 3 Yr 866.45 901.10 937.15  
End 42 Mo 981.50 916.80 953.50  
7005 Reprographics Operator B 12-31-82 and before)  
Start 745.65 775.50 806.55  
End 6 Mo 792.10 823.80 856.80  
End 1 Yr 806.75 839.05 872.65  
End 18 Mo 821.60 85450  —«-888.70  
End 2 Yr 836.35 869.80 904.60  
End 30 Mo 851.30 885.35 920.80  
End 3 Yr 866.45 901.19 937.15  
End 42 Mo 881.50 916.80 953.50  
116  
### EXHIBIT G  
__ Classifications of employees located at 77 Beale Street, San Francisco, which may come under the  
provisions of Section 10.6.  
Mail Clerk Driver  
Clerks - . Mail Room  
Clerks - Meter Sheet Rewrite and Closed Account  
Clerks - Cash Stub Section  
Clerks - Tape Librarian  
### EXHIBIT H  
San Francisco Division Grievance  
No, D.Gr/€ 2-74-17  
P-RC 141  
Utilization of Intermittent Employees  
MR. C. A. MILLER, Chairman April 29, 1975  
San Francisco Division  
Joint Grievance Committee  
The above-subject grievance has been discussed by the Pre-Review Committee prior to its docketing on the  
agenda of the Review Committee and is being returned to the Division for settlement in accordance with the following:  
Aiter a thorough review of the record and subsequent data submitted to the Review Committee, the  
Pre-Review Committee agrees that the paramount issue in the grievance is one of whether the Division prohibited the  
grievants from obtaining reguiar status as provided tor in Section 17.7 of the Clerical Labor Agreement. Inasmuch as  
_ this has been a long standing problem in several Divisions, the pene in the 1974 contract negotiations  
recognized this problem and agreed that in cases where it was determined that the employees were being utilized as  
intermittent employees and working a regular schedule, the affected employees would be entitled ta regular status  
even though they were laid off for more than an accumulated total of 30 days in any given six-month period of time.  
Turning to the case at hand, the record is clear that ihe grievants were utilized on a regular basis and intermittently  
laid off for the purpose of denying them regular status. Therefore, the Pre-Review Committee agrees that the  
grievants are entitled to regular status providing they are still on the active payroll.  
As to when the grievants became eligible to receive benefits as regular intermittent employees, the  
Pre-Review Commitiee agrees that in view of the grievance being held until the December 1974 Joint Grievance  
Committee meeting and then referred to the Review Committee, the grievants are entitled to  
adjustments, if any, effective January 1, 1975.  
When a settlement is reached by the Joint Grievance Committee, the Review Committee should be sent a  
copy of the final disposition.  
/s/ L. V. BROWN, Chairman  
Review Committee  
isf L.N. FOSS, Secreta  
eview Committee  
### EXHIBIT |  
### ADDENDUM TO  
### TITLE 19. DEMOTION AND LAYOFF PROCEDURE  
### JOB SECURITY  
During the course of 1990 General Negotiations, the parties spent a great deal of time addressing the issue of ie  
security with emphasis on the ability of Company to place non-bargaining unit employees into the  
bargaining unit. Company agreed that Letter Agreement 88-104 would remain in effect which limits ompany's ability  
to place non-bargaining unit ee into the bargaining unit. Further, in the application of Titles 206 and 306 of the  
Physical Agreement and Title 19 of the Clerical! agreement, Company agrees that should such occur,  
bargaining unit employees in the department and headquarters will not be impacted by demotion, displacement or  
for the next inree years subsequent to the placement oj the unit employee into the bargaining  
unit, uniess such employee leaves that headquarters for any reason. Employees at the headquarters in th  
department during the three year period wif] not be impacted by demotion, displacement, or layoff, unless such  
1t?  
demotion, displacement, or layoff ts unrelated to the placement of the non-bargaining unit employee into the  
bargaining unit, in which event the original non-bargaining unit employee will be affected first if the number of  
employees in that department and headquarters js being reduced. _ .  
Example 1. A Supervisor or exempt employee is returned to Service Representative position in Antioch. The  
Supervisor must be placed in a vacancy as such placement cannot result in a displacement,  
demotion oF layoff... “Ste lB nl. oa os  
Example 2. | Eight months after the Supervisor's return to.the bargaining unit another Service Representative bids  
; out of the Antioch. headquarters... The -headquarters may elect to not fill the vacancy and reduce  
.  
through attrition...  
Example 3. Thirteen months after the Supervisor's return to the bargaining unit, the Concord Customer Services  
_ | Department effects.a displacement for lack.of work and a Service Representative has 19.4 rights  
into Antioch. Since Antioch is not eae in-the. Customer Services.Department, the affected  
. Service Representative in Antioch would be the orie-with the least seniority, which may or may not be  
the former non-bargaining unit employee .- " ons ©  
~  
  
wie Bk mw x 4  
Example 4. Fifteen months. after the NBU's return to-the bargaining unit, Antioch decides to downsize the:  
Customer Services Department by reducing the number of Service Representatives by one. Since a  
reduction is taking place, the NBU is the first to. be demoted, displaced, or.taid off.  
Example 5.. At any time the NBU- leaves the Antioch Customer Services Department and headquarters for any  
reason (bid, transfer, displacement), the headquarters and department has returned to status quo  
_and may be reduced through demotion, displacement or layoff.  
### EXHIBIT J |  
### LETTER AGREEMENT NO. R1-91-99-PGE  
November 1, 1991  
Local Union No, 1245  
International Brotherhood of  
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
P.O, Box 4780 7 . whet  
Walnut Creek, CA 94546  
Attention: Mr. Jack McNally, Business Manager| .  
Gentlemen:  
This cancels and supersedes our Jetter dated July 23,1991 to reflect changes proposed in Union's letter of October  
25, 1991. Pursuant to Sections 205.19 and 18.17 of the Physical and Clerical Agreements, Company proposes the  
following procedures for the application of the hardship transier provisions of the Physical and Clerical Agreements  
(i.e., Sections 205.17 and 18.15). The purpose of these Sections was to allow the Company, through agreement with  
the Union, to fitl a job vacancy by appointing an employee who requests the position for reasons of urgent necessity.  
Urgent necessity includes impairment of the employee's health or that of a member of the employee's family or the  
lack of educational facilities for the employee's children in the location in which he/she is currently employed.  
Following are.the procedures to.be utilized: .  
1. An interested employee must write to the Human Resources Department of his/her division {or General  
Office department), explaining the circumstances and request a transfer pursuant to the provisions of Section 205.17  
. 4  
(physical} or Section 18.15 (clerical), whichever is applicable.  
2. The Division or Department Human Resources Department must then undertake a prelimina investigation  
to determine whether or not a bona: fide reason exists to apply the appro riate section. For situations involving  
impairment of an employee's health or that of a member of the family, medica! documentation is required.  
3. ° Ifthe Human Aésources Department believes that the matter should be pufsued, they then contact the IBEW  
Business Representative assigned to that area and both will make a thorough investigation to determine whether a  
ae exists. If = agree a hardship exists, then they must then prepare a list of all locations in the. Company that  
could alleviate the prodlem. =~  
4,.  ~ This list must be forwarded to the Human Resources Manager and Business of each division  
(and/or General Office department) wheré such a location is identified. Each of these locations must also agree, in  
writing, that hardship transfer consideration should be afforded the employee. To avoid conflicting responses to an  
employee, all of the divisions solicited for hardship consideration should communicate with each other.  
5, The first vacancy in any of the listed locations to any classification to which the employee ts quaiified to fill that  
does not have a higher wage. schedule than the employee's Must be offered to the employee. If  
the employee declines such offer without a substantial reason or the Company does not make such an offer, the  
entire matter shail be dropped at this point, and the 205.77/18.5 request is invalidated.  
118  
‘the location(s) where they wish to be considere  
6. lf the individual accepts the offered position, a written agreement must then be prepared and signed by both  
the host and receiving Division Human Resources Managers and IBEW Business Representatives. A copy of such  
ent should be forwarded to the Manager of Industrial Relations and the IBEW Business Manager, as well as  
all of the other locations earlier identified. "=  
While the Division Human Resources Manager and iBEW Business Representalive musi send a hardship  
Sata to each suitable location, employees .must also submit bids and transfers to each of these locations. The  
bids and transfers must be to every ‘classification that would qualify in alleviating the dea fos 2 If an: employee  
declines a bona fide bid or transfer job offer, substantial reason; or if they refuse to submit bids and  
transfers to appropriate positions in all of the locations identified, his/her hardship wautd also be invalidated.  
Many hardship requests are location specific.’ This appears to be an attempt by some employees to relocate  
using the hardship provisions rather than the normat bid and transfer procedure. Those location jee requesis  
must be viewed very carehuly to ensure that the location(s) requested is/are the only location(s) that would alleviate  
the employee's hardship. Often there are many locations that would accommodate the employee's particular  
situation. All of those locations must be included for consideration. ps yo  
* Often times employeessend hardship- requests directly to the Division Human Resources Department(s) ‘in  
. Those requests returned to the. employee's Human  
Resources Department for consideration and processing. . re  
This agreement may be'cancelled by either party upon 30 days written notice tothe other of such cancellation. '  
lf you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please sd indicate‘in the space provided below and return  
one executed copy of this letter to Company. |  
25.) 7 3:  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY:  
By {si R.L. Bailey  
Manager of (ndustrial Relations  
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.  
### LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL _  
### OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, ’:  
Feb 3, 1992 . Jack  
Pon bm ote = Business Manager’ 3 ei  
-  
sf  
. if  
‘  
“4 7  
foe ts  
bes a . - + . = :  
. .F ete ¢  
4 - . 7% - + . e  
- er - 8 . . - 2  
no . -  
XHIBIT K rs . _—  
me -! * ~ . . . s  
cad i ' | + =  
### «SEVERANCE:  
7 = “+ mse . =  
. . ar = ~  
e - , 7 . ©  
= a . * « Ss  
A. Application “=” > ff eo dog  
Employees laid off pursuant of Section 19.7 of the Clerical Agreement will receive the Severance Package as  
defined below. . |  
a!  
-  
Clerical Employees with'léss than one year of service will not bé eligible for the severance program.  
vs we bog a =, :  
-  
a eS  
B: Formula . as  
Four weeks pay (base classification) weeks’ pay for each year of service. *  
b} A lump sum payment of $5,000 to partially off: set COBRA .and life insurance conversion coverage.  
_ The employee has no obligation.to use it for COBRA conversion or continued fife insurance coverage.  
c) Payment is dependent on the signing of the agreed to Severance Agreement and Release. -  
d) Employees who are rehired, pursuant to Section 19.16 of the Clerical Agreement, within 12 months of  
lay-off ard are subsequentty laid off for lack of work within 12. months of being rehired will receive a  
-- prorated severance. The prorated severance’ amount will be equal to the difference between the  
severance amount(s} the employee previously received and the severance amount calculated using  
the empidyee’s current years of service. (Amended 1-1-00) 3  
7  
119  
### ATTACHMENT 14  
### SEVERANCE AGREEMENT AND RELEASE (Amended tw  
This Severance Agreement and Release is - made >and ° “entered into- between Mr. IMs.  
and the Pacific Gas and Electric Com ipany (PG&E). Mr PIMs and PG&E (collectively referred to as  
"the parties”), in their wish to compromisé, resdlve’ ‘Settle, and términate- any-dispute or claim between them with  
respect to Mr /Ms. em ployment wt PG&E ane’ severance therefrom, have agreed as follows:  
1.  
2.  
  
Effective close of business, | Sr Nis a shall be laid off from PG&E employment.  
  
On or Seven ‘days following the execution of this ‘Severance and  
‘Release, whichever is PGBE ‘shall’ pay to Mr./Ms. : “the amount of , less  
applicable deductions. Mr./Ms. agrées that‘he/she is responsiblé for | paying any taxes on the  
amount paid to him/her- to this Severance Agreement and HW Mr./Ms. iS  
rehired within 30 calendar days of layoff, then PG&E's obligation to pay is null and void. The parties agree  
that the payment provided in this paragraph is in addition to, and does not affect, any payment and benefit to  
which Mr. /Ms. may be otherwise entitled under PG&E s com pen sation, performance incentive,  
stock option, ‘and other benefit Prog rams. :  
>: represents | that oes not have any pending claim, charge’ or action: In Or with  
any federal, state or local court or any administrative agency to his/her employment against PG&E, its  
officers, agents, employees, subsidiaries, parent company, assigns, affiliated ‘companies and  
successors. ff does Have pending claims described in the preceding sentence,  
Mr./Ms. agrees that such claims ‘are covered by the release aspeci of Severarice  
Agreement and Release and that he/she shall také ‘all necessary action. to seek dismissal with prejudice of  
each Claim, within twa business days after the effective date of this Severance Agreement and Release.  
in consideration for the payment’ which PG&E shall provide Mr./Ms. under this Severance  
Agreement and Release, Mr-/Ms.’ in behalf of his/herself, his/her heirs, estate, executors,  
administrators, Successors, and assigns, releases and agrees to hald harmless PG&E, its officers, attorneys,  
agents, empioyees, subsidiaries; ‘parent company, ‘assigns, affiliated companiés, ‘and successors, from all  
actions, causes of action, claims, disputes, judgments, ‘obligations, damages, liabilities of whatsoever kind  
and character, relating to Mr./Ms. employment with PG&E; including his/her employment  
severance and any action which Jed to the severance. Specifically;-Mr/Ms. - - sunderstands  
and agrees that the actions, causes of action, claims, disputes, judgments, obligations, damages, and  
liabilities covered by the preceding sentence include, but are not limited fo, those arising under any federal,  
state, or local. law, regulation, or ‘order relating to: ‘civil rights (including but not limited to employment  
discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, age; ‘sex, national’ origin,: ancestry, physical or mentaf  
handicap or disability, medical condition, veteran status, marital status, pregnancy, dnd sexual orientation),  
wage and hour, labor, contract, oF tort. |  
Mr/Ms. understands and agrees that the Severance Agreement and Release extends to all  
claims of every nature and kind whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, past or present,  
and all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code are hereby expressly, waived.” =u) section  
reads as follows: , oe, o's  
A genera! release does not extend to ‘claims which the creditor does not know or’ suspect to exist int  
his/her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known to his/her must have materially affected  
_ settlement with the debtor. .  
Mr./Ms. agrees not to initiate, participate or aid, in any way, in-any faiveuit oF proceeding upon  
any claim released by him/her under this Severance Agreement and Release. The preceding sentence,  
however, shall not prohibit Mr./Ms. ‘from participating in’ any judicial or administrative  
proceeding that relates to the subject matter of, or any claim covered by, this Severance Agreement and  
Release, if he/she is to do so by a properly-issued subpoena or valid court order. PG&E also  
acknowledges that Mr./Ms. may be legally required to appear and testify at a deposition, court  
hearing or trial, or otherwise respond to a subpoena. In the event of any such subpoena, court order, or  
request, notify PG&E’s Human Resources Department as soon as possible.  
420  
»  
Mr. /Ms. represents and agrees that prior-to signing this Severance Agreement and  
Release, he/she returned to PG&E all originals and copies of all files, memoranda, records, software, credit  
cards, identification.cards, keys, and any other properly of PG&E.or its affiliates which he/she had in his/her  
possession, custody -or-control. Mr/Ms. ‘further. agrees that his/her. violation of this  
paragraph shail constitute a material breach of this Severance. and Release..  
Mr./Ms. _ agrees nat tot use, publicize, or circulate any secret, confidential or  
proprietary information concerning PG&E, its subsidiaries, parent company, or affiliates, which, has come to  
his/her attention during his/her employment with PG&E, unless his/her doing so is consistent with any rights  
he/she may have-under any applicable whistleblower laws, in writing by PG&E or is required by  
law, including subpoena,, Before making any legally-required, disclosure, Mr./Ms.. | shall  
give PG&E as much advance notice ‘as possible. Mr./Ms. further agrees, that his/her  
violation of this paragraph shall constitute a-material.breach of this ‘Severance Agreement and Release.  
gts  
Mr./Ms. ag rees not to make, Jesue, endorse, publicize, or circulate to any person or entity  
Statements or remarks. that can reasonably. | be construed as disparaging toward PG&E, its officers,  
directors, attorneys, agents, employees, assigns, parent company, subsidiaries, affiliated. companies and  
successors, or any aspect of its operations. Mr./Ms, also agrees that, if calléd upon to do  
so, he/she will-cooperate-with, and provide reasonable assistance.to, PG&E to protect and further its lawful,  
interests in-all judicial, administrative,. investigative, and legislative proceedings involving PG&E or any aspect  
of its operations. » The parties agree that this. paragraph. does not legitimate  
exercise: of his/her rights under applicable whistleblower laws or Obligation to comply with “all validly-  
issued court or administrative orders, including Subpoenas. MrJMs. further agrees that  
his/her violation of this paragraph shall, constitute. a Material. breach of. this Severance Agreement and:  
Release, © |  
ivy . a  
2 2 om, .  
+ to aw ©  
   
Mr./Ms. agrees that,..if he/she engages in a material breach of this Severance  
Agreement and: Release, PG&E shail not. be required to make any” unmade payment due under this  
Severance Agreement and Release, and he/she shall repay to PG&E. the payment he/she received under  
this Severance Agreement and Release within seyen (7). calendar days’ upon written demand by PG&E. The  
parties agree that. this. paragraph shalh.. not apply, . ‘to. the. tawful” exercise of “any right Mr./Ms.  
may. have-under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and that such matters shall  
- - Pe governed sli provisions of said act. -  
“Th  
  
~  
ye  
Mr. oe “understands that if he/she. angages, or ‘has engaged, in ‘misconduct that would  
warrant his/her termination -of. employment under PG&E's employee conduct ‘standards and the collective  
bargaining agreement's . just cause standard,. he/she shail forteit. hishher right to sign this, Severance  
Release. ..- ..  
i “=  
*  
  
ro.  
Any dispute regarding any aspect of this Severance Agreement and Release, including its validity,  
interpretation, or any action which would constitute..a violation, of this Severance Agreement and Release  
_ (hereinafter referred to as.an “arbitrable dispute”) shall be resolved by an experienced arbitrator, selected by  
the parties in accordance with the rules. of the American, Arbitration Association.. The fees of the arbitrator  
and the cost associated with producing a transcript of the proceedings shall be paid in equal shares by  
Mr./Ms. and PG&E. The parties agree thai arbitration shall be the exclusive remedy for  
resalving arbitrable. disputes, and that the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding. The judgment  
rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having competent jurisdiction. The prevailing party in  
any such arbitration shall be entitled to costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees. In addition, any party who  
attempts to pursue an arbitrable dispute in any forum other than arbitration shail be liable for costs and  
attorneys’ fees incurred by the other party, in seeking.to compel arbitration. , The parties agree that this  
paragraph shall nat apply to the lawful exercise of any right Mrs. may have under the  
- Age Discriminatian in Employment Act. and that such matters shall be governed by the provisions of said Act.  
121  
13.  
14.  
15,  
16.  
17.  
‘Mr./Ms. agrees that, if he/she initiates an administrative, judicial, arbitral, or other similar  
proceeding, , to bring a claim released by this Severance Agreement and Release or to challenge the validity  
of this Severance Agreement and Release, PG&E shall not be required to make any unmade payment due  
under this Severance Agreement and Release and he/she shall repay to PG&E the payment he/she received  
under this Severance Agreement and Release concurrent with his/her initiation of the proceeding. Mr./Ms.  
’s failure to make the prescribed repayment shall be a basis for rejecting his/her claim and/or  
his/her attempt to challenge the Validity of this Severance Release. . Mr./Ms.  
also agrees that, if the claim he/she brought or his/her attempt to challenge the Validity of this Severance  
Agreement and Release is rejected, he/she shall pay to PG&E any loss, cost, damage, or expense, including,  
without limitation, reasonable attorney fees PG&E incurred in the proceeding, within seven (7) calendar days  
from the fina! decision rejecting his/her claim or attempt. Further, notwithstanding the foregoing, if Mr./Ms.  
obtains against PG&E a monetary judgment or settlement for a claim released under this  
Severance Agreement and Release, the payment he/she received under this Severance Agreement and  
Release shall be deducted from any such monetary judgment or settlement. -The parties agree that this  
paragraph shall not apply to the lawful exercise of any right Mr./Ms, __ may have under the Age  
Discrimination in Employment Act and that such matters shall be governed by the provisions of said Act.  
This Severance Agreement and Release shall not be considered an admission of liability or a violation of any  
applicable contract, law, rule, regulation, guideline, or order of any kind. .  
Mr./Ms. agrees that all claims he/she may have arising under the Age Discrimination  
in Employment Act before he/she signs this Severance Agreement and Release are covered by paragraphs 4  
and 5 of this Severance Agreement and Release and that his/her waiver of those age discrimination claims is  
an integral part of the release aspect of this Severance Agreement and Release. Therefore. consistent with  
the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, .Mr./Ms. States that he/she was given this  
Severance Agreement and Release on , and understands that he/she has 45 calendar  
days from until _ to consider. the Severance Agreement and Release.  
Further, Mr./Ms. understands that, if he/she signs this Severance Agreement and  
Release, he/she may revoke it within seven (7) calendar days of the execution. To revoke this  
Severance Agreement and Release, Mr./Ms. must submit to the local Human Resources  
Department, a signed statement to that effect by close of business of the seventh day. Mr./Ms.  
understands and agrees that this Severance Agreement and Release will not take  
effect until the expiration of the seven-day revocation period. Further, Mr./Ms. may elect  
to consider the severance package for fewer than 45 days, at his/her own option, but is under no obligation to  
shorien the period. If Mr./Ms._. Ss elects to consider the severance package for fewer than 45  
days at his/ner option and executes this Severance Agreement and Release before the 45-day consideration  
period has expired, said employee may recetve the severance payment before tne 45-day consideration  
period, but only after the seven-day revocation periods has expired. In no event, however, shall Mr./Ms.  
receive the paymeni until he/she has completed his/her consideration period, which may be  
less than 45 days at his/her option, as well as the seven-day revocation period.  
This Severance Agreement and Release sets forth the entire agreement between the parties and fully  
supersedes any and all prior agreements or understandings between the parties pertaining to the subject  
matter of this Severance Agreement and Release. This Severance Agreement and Release, however, shalif  
not affect any right either party has or may have against the other regarding Workers’ Compensation claims  
and Supplemental Benefit payments made for those claims. The parties agree that this Severance  
Agreement and Release may not be modified or canceled in any manner except by a writing signed by  
Mr./Ms. and an authorized PG&E oificial. !f any provision of this release is found to be  
unenforceable, all other provisions will remain fully enforceable,  
Mr./Ms. states that he/she has read this Severance Agreement and Release in its  
entirety, that he/she has been given the necessary time to consider its contents, that he/she fully understands  
its terms, that he/she has been advised that he/she should consult legal counsel of his/her choosing, that the  
only promises made to him/her ta sign are those stated herein, and that he/she is signing this Severance  
Agreement and Release voluntarily.  
122  
### PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. THIS SEVERANCE AGREEMENT AND RELEASE INCLUDES A RELEASE OF  
### ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
-  
. ° ‘  
~- . .  
4 = . . es  
0 #8 ‘ ‘ " '- . ‘ :  
a, . ". ‘ ere ‘ .  
.  
“+ . « s .  
‘ d sm oT 8 ae ‘ ‘ . < * . .  
' es 7 a yg # 4 wt bee + ~* ‘  
7 = * ws ‘ . = es . 1. =) é  
+ +=" . “a ‘  
a) . . “te «a Ft =* 4  
oe .  
. a = ~- - - qo ey s oe .  
### PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY ' EMPLOYEE .* .  
  
ca © . ia  
_ ‘A . «4 com: ‘sm . * 4 . . “  
. | +s og Ff * . : =. '  
a ° = . - - . . .  
«  
‘ - 4 - o .  
‘ - * e  
. ‘ . s ‘ “wa die 4 . . 5 . .  
- 7. = 7  
. + 4 =  
. i - = =  
é + ‘7 7 +. 2 .  
: 4 sy an oro. . ‘ ae .*  
; tal Security  
‘ . - 5 we » .  
- ' .  
' . est - , 8 ao. 4  
.  
-  
'  
. e 8 ’ . . 4 Ber aan ‘ . e . = ‘  
r 4 ‘ oe - 4 2 .  
4 . '  
. .  
4 nove ° ra  
. ' - » ye “5 * 2 @ ‘ ‘ .  
- . eo ort? - . ‘ . 4  
| . = _- 3 + ee  
i . oy oy =" % .  
e  
a -v « . . = a” 7 ~  
8 a -  
= 7 ca . 4 . . . a  
. . 4 s ‘  
7 . ‘ ' . 1 -  
oo . - ® * a ' . 4  
- . a . + * &  
. + . .  
. . ' . .  
. ais 's 3 « 1 .  
7 - ' -  
+ . ‘ z . -_- : ar Oa  
. . s + - tor ' '  
~ . ' .  
1 ‘ . af  
roo - ao  
‘ -  
* so. - . . 7  
: 4 oe - TU 4  
a . ‘ . . 8 ' . - :  
- amet -- . - * . - = Jes  
‘ whe ‘i a ™ rr we = * ‘ - ‘  
- . . tim - .  
.  
.  
. se . ' . -  
"ys r ve * - & + . ! + as » ewe - 7  
. . . iy . c w =  
- 7 ' 14 _  
a ao. ' -  
. '  
4 row ‘ i ' . : - : » Tw - °.  
7 aos .  
se —_—_ ue ee . . ‘ ws  
a .  
7 7  
. . ' ; 3 ” 5 . .  
'  
* ° = - ac Qe = —_ = to  
.  
e ~ a ‘ . . ore :  
’ - > + 4 .  
. - ‘ . * + a - -e = ° .  
.  
= ” . . ‘ . - . .  
'  
=e * -  
' = . . . 7 ‘ ‘  
  
a ‘ oa . ~ ot er oes " - . . .  
- ‘  
‘ - * ‘ a + a were ‘See ~ - « a se ' i‘  
. r . ' . a  
- “oa. 7 ' *  
= i 4 2 re x <i SY i;  
. . tae - . é 1 . ' ' : . - re ‘  
.  
* . "et '  
  
, - . ‘ * eye” FS .- oF.  
. 3 . ’ ty . 30 ae ~*~ * e wt  
. ‘  
“a : ‘  
. | - ee og . 7 . a  
. 1. an - om «= ‘  
. me 7. ‘ -' sy tat tue ' oath -  
. .  
. a bole, = i : = a : Mt eye . -  
+. - = &  
’ ' a s i if of 4 s a4 - 4 . e ' 4 '  
é - .  
. r  
’ ‘ ‘ ft wm £ ss - <u gee wy ! . .  
4 7, - . Pe ‘ . . ik . i 4 2  
oid . a  
- ' ”  
. ' 4 8 24 . . .  
. ye Joa. = .» © wt ‘ 7 °. ~ ror  
ae  
'  
. + . . + . -  
. 7 - =’ . =’ = ok om . ,  
: . ‘ ’ * . - ‘ eee ° “ - :  
. . % © - .  
‘ a ™ = ‘is . ' ‘  
. ” ’ or - 7 ' “ 4 .  
he . fe 7, ’ ‘a ~ va ’ +  
' 2 -  
t . . = she . - ey . + = 4 . '  
1, = . 7 "po +  
' *  
2 es. ' 1 ve =! ‘  
. +  
ore as . toy er e  
‘ -- + ' = 4 e . °  
. e Tt . a ' . ~ 4 .  
. - . ” - .  
' i. ‘ =  
. a? « = ee .  
- =" ‘ os  
' . . ' - "= 6 - .  
4  
. m %. ' «at ‘ we ' ‘i -  
* . - . .  
‘ . - . . ‘ - a  
  
- + - . -- - « - . “ - a  
. } 5 ’ . ~ . . “  
* - . . os . . .  
*  
- .  
r a oF . ae] 4 La lk qy * : ° «il 4 . e  
'  
4 t . ‘ a e ~~ a t* 4 i foe ef  
  
. ‘ a - +  
7 4 7 =i .  
. + . - - - '  
we ‘ a= . . .  
oar)  
.  
  
. . . r  
. , a . 4  
- +e  
  
e - '  
r * = 8  
oe  
‘ . . eo. ' - ‘i ra '  
= ‘ . = ‘ =  
  
. . -  
. 2 e .  
- =  
. '  
. *  
= .  
-  
123  
  
### SUPPLEMENT to SECTION 1.7  
### REGIONS 4NO_ DIVISIONS  
### PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC Co.  
   
04 FOGREE Cty.  
124  
    
### SUPPLEMENTS  
### LABOR AGREEMENT INTERPRETATION  
SUBJECT: Comparable Substitute for Usual and  
Average Meals (Meals at Home)  
TITLE 16 - MEALS - Clerical Agreement  
Section 104.1 of the Physical Agreement and Section 16.1 of the Clerical Agreement state that the provisions  
of the Meal Titles shall be interpreted and applied in a practical manner which shall canform to the intention of the  
parties in negotiating with respect to meals; namely, that a comparable substitute shail be provided when employees  
are prevented from observing their usuai and average meal practices or are prevented from eating a meal at  
approximately the usual time therefor.  
in the Company's Guidelines with respect to the application of Title 104 originally issued in October 1965 and  
amended in October 1966 and July 1968, the following statement is made with respect to the definition of a  
comparable substitute:  
"The meal provided...should but may not be quite the same as the meal would be at the same time if eaten at  
home. Dependent upon the circumstances present at the time, and where practical or possible, a comparable  
substitute to the missed meal should be furnished.  
"It may be necessary to provide meals at times of the day or night when the employee would not observe a  
customary meal time.... The meal provided, again dependent upon the circumstances of that situation, should be  
such as io adequately compensate for the need for food resulting from working beyond or before customary meal  
time.  
“There have been no maximum cost limits for meals agreed upon because the cost of meals may vary due to  
such factors as the time of day, location, conditions and other circumstances. However, the requirement of  
reasonableness in the selection of a ‘comparable substitute‘ for the meal missed should he followed,  
The following guidelines, but not necessarily in the order listed, should be kept in mind by both  
and supervisors in determining whether or not a mea purchased as a comparable substitute is or is not reasonable.  
1. The cost of meals at the average restaurant available in the general area, but excluding such luxury items as  
filet mignon or combination steak and seafood dinners. The foregoing is not intended to mean menu averaging.  
2. The availability of restaurants which can provide a comparable substitute within a reasonable distance of the  
job site or between the job site and the headquarters.  
3, The breakfast, luncheon or dinner menu where comparable substitutes are available, but excluding extra a la  
carte items. The foreqoing does not preclude ordering a la carte when that ts all that is available nor does it preclude  
a la carte desserts with dinner meals.  
4, The weather or other extreme working conditions to which the employees have been subjected.  
5. The amount by which the time limits in the Agreement and the Guidelines have been exceeded, with some  
consideration as to whether or not sandwiches and a hot beverage have been supplied on the job. Except for lunch,  
the foregaing does not imply that sandwiches and a hot beverage are to be considered as a comparable substitute  
Lee is it tended to mean that employees are to be worked routinely nor excessively beyond the aforementioned time  
imits.  
For Union: /sf Mitchell  
Its Business Manager  
June 26, 1974  
For Company: ésf |. W. Bonbright  
Its Manager of Industrial Relations  
June 713, 1974  
125  
### BIDDING UNIT ONE  
EI Cerrifo  
Livermore  
Gas Meter Repair - Fremont  
### BIDDING UNIT TWO  
### AREA FIVE  
elmont  
Burlingame  
### AREA SIX _  
eneral Office Clerical  
Garage and Materials  
### SEVEN  
risDane  
Colma  
### BIDDING UNIT THREE  
### AREA EIGHT  
ones  
ill Valley  
Novato  
### AREA NIN  
inc.  
Geysers Power Plant  
Geyserville  
Guemeville  
### AREA TEN  
Boonville  
Clearlake Highland  
Pinole  
Richmond  
Oakport  
Contra Costa Power Plant  
Lafayette  
Martinez  
Moraga  
Newark  
Pleasanton  
San Leandro  
Electric Meter Shop - Fremont  
Half Moon Bay  
Redwood City  
Hunters Point Power Plant  
Oakland Power Plant  
Daly Ci  
  
Olema  
Point Reyes  
Healdsburg  
Petaluma  
Rohnert Park  
Lakeport  
Mendocino  
Middletown  
Point Arena  
Na  
St.  
### SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 18 BIDDING UNITS (1)  
Rodeo  
Oakland  
Orinda  
Pittsburg  
Pittsburg Power Plant  
Walnut Creek  
San Ramon  
Sunol  
Union City  
San Mateo  
Potrero Power Plant  
San Francisco  
San Bruno  
South San Francisco  
San Rafael  
Sausalito  
Santa Rosa  
Sebastopol  
onoma  
Potter Valley  
Ukiah  
Willits  
Valieja  
   
### BIDDING UNIT FOUR  
### TWELVE  
rcata  
Bridgeville  
Eure  
### BIDDING UNIT FIVE  
### THIRTEEN  
nghton  
Cameron Park  
Davis  
Dixon  
### BIDDING UNIT SIX  
### nibs FIFTEEN  
ig Bend Villa  
Big Sprin  
Bucks Lake  
Caribou.  
Centerville  
Chico  
### BIDDING UNIT SEVEN  
### AREA SIXTEEN  
Arbuckle  
Colusa  
Dobbins  
East Nicolaus  
Gridley  
### BIDDING UNIT EIGHT  
### AREA SEVENTEEN  
nderson  
Burn  
Casse  
Central Valley  
Cloverdale  
Coming  
Cottonwood  
Fail River Mitts  
### BIDDING UNIT NINE  
### EIGHTEEN  
a  
Auburn  
Colfax  
Downieville  
### AnEA FOURTEEN  
ordelia  
Ferndale  
Fortuna  
Garberville  
Folsom  
Placerville  
Fairtield  
Rio Vista  
Vacaville  
Greenville  
Hamilton City  
Lake Aimanor  
  
Nelson  
Orland  
en  
arysville  
Merdan  
Oroville  
Smartville  
Forest Glen  
Hat Creek  
Hayfork _  
Junction City  
Manton  
Montgomery Creek  
Paynes Creek  
Dutch Fiat  
Emigrant Gap  
Fresh Pond  
12?  
Humboldt Bay Power Plant  
Weott  
Willow Creek  
Sacramento  
West Sacramento  
Winters  
Woodland  
Paradise  
Prattville  
Quincy  
Rodgers Flat  
Storrie  
Willows  
Table Mountain  
Wheatland  
Williams  
Yuba City  
Red Bluff  
nec,  
Round Mountain  
Trinity Center  
Weaverville  
Whitmore  
Wildwood  
Grass Valley  
Nevada City  
Roseville  
### BIDDING UNIT TEN  
### AREA NINETEEN  
rovela  
Jamestown  
Long Bam  
Modesto  
### AREA TWENTY  
ngels  
Arnold  
Beliota  
Hathaway Pines  
### BIDDING UNIT ELEVEN  
### AREA TWENTY-ONE  
apitola  
### AREA NTY-TW  
upertine  
Los Gatos  
### AREA TWENTY-THREE  
oyote  
Gilroy  
### BIDDING UNIT TWELVE  
### TWENTY-FOUR  
uberry  
Avenal  
Caruthers  
Clovis  
Caalinga  
Corcoran  
### AR NTY-FIVE  
vin  
Bakersfield  
Boron .  
Buttonwillow  
### AREA TWENTY'SIX  
owchilla  
Dos Palos  
Firebaugh  
### BIDDING UNIT THIRTEEN  
### AREA TWENTY-SEVEN  
arme  
Hollister  
King City  
### AREA TWENTY-EIGHT  
rroyo Grande  
Atascadero  
Diablo Canyon Power Plant  
Lompoc  
Newman  
Oakdale  
Patterson  
Pinecrest  
Jackson  
Lodi  
Manteca  
Martell  
Santa Cruz  
Mountain View  
Milpitas  
San Jose  
Dinuba  
Five Points  
Fresno  
Huron  
Kerman  
Lemoore  
Ridgecrest  
Rosedale  
Taft  
Los Banos  
Madera  
Mariposa  
Monterey  
Moss Landing Power Plant  
Pacific Grove  
Morro Bay Power Plant  
Paso Robles  
San Luis Obispo  
128  
Sonora  
Tuolumne  
Turlock  
Twain Hart  
San Andreas  
Stockton  
Tracy  
Victor  
Watsonville  
Sunnyvale  
San Martin  
Santa Clara |  
Piedra  
Reedley  
Riverdale  
Sanger  
Selma  
Springville  
Tehachapi  
Trona  
Wasco  
Merced  
North Fork  
Oakhurst  
Salinas  
Soledad  
Santa Maria  
Santa Ynez  
Solvang  
   
### BIODING UNIT FOURTEEN  
### MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION  
### BIDDING UNIT FIFTEEN  
### HYDRO GENERATION  
### BIDDING UNIT SIXTEEN  
### GAS SYSTEM MAINTENANCE & TECHNICAL SERVICES/GAS SYSTEM OPERATIONS  
### BIDDING UNIT SEVENTEEN  
(Deleted 1-1-94)  
### BIDDING UNIT EIGHTEEN  
Building  
Reprographics  
Mail  
Design Drafting _  
Telecommunications  
### BIDDING UNIT NINETEEN  
Sect Computer Operations: San Francisco Computer Center and Fairfield Computer Center/Data Recording  
ion  
amber Vice President & Controller's Organization (Including Customer Accounting and West Sacramento Billing  
Venter}  
### NOTES:  
1) The Bidding Unit wilt be the geographical area listed in 1 through 13 above, unless a work group or  
department is specifically designated as a separate bidding unit, such as Hydro Generation  
### SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 19 DEMOTION UNITS (1)  
### DEMOTION UNIT ONE  
### AREA ONE  
erkeley Pinole Rodeo  
El Cerrito Richmond |  
### AREA TW  
ameda Oakport Oakland  
Emeryville  
### AREA THREE  
Antioch Lafayette Orinda  
Avon Martinez Pittsbu  
Brentwood Moraga Walnut Creek  
Concord  
### AREA FOUR ,  
Fremont Newark . San Ramon  
Gas Meter Repair - Fremont Pleasanton Sunol __  
Hayward San Leandro Union Gity  
Livermore Electric Meter Shop - Fremont  
129  
### . DEMOTION UNIT TWO (2)  
### A FIV  
éeimon  
Burlingame  
AnEA six  
. Garage & Materials -  
Clerical  
### AREA SEVEN  
nsbane  
Co  
ima  
### DEMOTION UNIT THREE  
### ABEA EIGHT  
tgnacio  
if Valley  
Novato  
### AREA NINE  
overdale, Inc.  
Geyserville  
Guerneville  
### AREA TEN  
Boonville  
Ciearlake Highland  
Covelo  
Fort Bragg  
### AREA ELEVEN  
hicla  
Calistoga  
### REA TWELV  
reata  
Bridgeville  
Eureka  
### DEMOTION UNIT FOUR  
### AREA THIRTEEN  
rignton  
Cameron Park  
### AREA FOURTEEN  
Cordelia  
Davis  
Dixon  
### FIFTEEN  
Big eon Mage  
Ig Springs  
Bucks Lake  
Caribou,  
Centerville  
Chico  
Half Moon Bay  
Redwood City  
San Francisco  
Daly City  
  
Olema  
Paint Reyes  
Healdsburg  
Petaluma  
Rohnert Park  
Lakeport  
Mendocino  
Middletown  
Point Arena  
Napa  
St. Helena  
Femdale  
Fortuna  
Garberville  
Folsom  
Placerville  
Fairfield  
Rio Vista  
Vacaville  
Greenville  
Hamilton City  
Lake Almanor  
Magalia  
Nelson  
Orland  
130  
San Mateo  
San Carlos  
San Bruno  
South San Francisco  
San Rafael  
Sausalito  
Santa Rosa  
Sebastopol  
Sonoma  
Potter Valley  
Ukiah  
Willits  
Vallejo  
Humboldt  
Weott  
Willow Creek  
Sacramento  
West Sacramento  
Winters  
Woodland  
Paradise  
Prattville  
Willows  
### SIXTEEN  
uckie  
Colusa  
Dobbins  
East Nicolaus  
Gridley  
### AREA SEVENTEEN  
a erson  
um  
Cassel  
Centrai Valley  
Cloverdale  
Corning  
Cottonwood  
Fall River Mills  
### AREA EIGHTEEN  
Alta  
Auburn  
Colfax  
Downieville  
### DEMOTION UNIT FIVE  
### AREA NINETEEN  
rovelan  
Jamestown  
Long Barn  
  
### TWENTY  
ngeis Camp  
Arnold  
Bellota  
Hathaway Pines  
### AREA TWENTY-ONE  
uberry  
Avenal  
Caruthers  
Clovis  
Coalinga  
Corcoran  
### AREA TWE “TW  
rvin  
Bakersfield  
ron  
Buttonwillow  
### AREA TWENTY-THREE  
owcnilia  
Dos Patos  
Fairbaugh  
Lincoln  
Marsyville  
Meridian  
Oroville  
Forest Glen  
Hat Creek  
Hayfork  
Junction City  
Manton  
Montgomery Creek  
Paynes Creek  
Dutch Fiat  
‘Em igrant Gap  
Fresh Pond  
Newman  
Oakdale  
Patterson  
Pinecrest  
Jackson  
Lodi  
Manteca  
Martell  
Dinuba  
Five Points  
Fresno  
Heims  
Huron  
Kerman  
Kettleman  
Lemoore  
Ridgecrest  
Rosedale  
Taft  
Los Banos  
Madera  
Mariposa  
131  
Smartvilie  
Table Mountain  
Wheatland  
Witiams  
Yuba City  
Red Bluff  
i  
Round Mountain  
Trinity Center  
Weaverville  
Whitmore  
Wildwood  
Grass Valley  
Nevada City  
Rosevilie  
Sonora  
Tuoiumne  
Turlock  
Twain Hart  
San Andreas  
Stockton  
Tracy  
Victor  
Springville  
Tehachapi  
Trona  
Wasco  
Merced  
North Fork  
Oakhurst  
### DEMOTION UNIT SIX  
### GAS SYSTEM MAINTENANCE & TECHNICAL SERVICES/GAS SYSTEM OPERATIONS (including Gas  
### REA -FO  
apito Santa Cruz  
### AREA [WENTY-FIVE  
upertino Mountain View  
Los Gatos  
### AR  
innabar Gilro  
Coyote Milpitas  
Edenvale San Jase  
### AREA ENTY-SEVE  
arme Montere  
Hollister Pacific Grove  
King City  
### AREA | WER DEG  
rroyo arande Paso Robles  
Atascadero Pismo Beach  
Buellton San Luis Obispo  
Lompoc Santa Maria  
### DEMOTION UNIT SEVEN (See LAS2-149)  
### HYDRO GENERATION  
### AREA TWENTY-NINE  
Northern Area  
Bumey DeSabla  
Camp 1 Harnilton Branch  
Caribou Kilare  
Chico Pit 3  
### AREA +e TY  
ntral Area  
Alta Drum  
Angels Camp Sait Springs  
Camp 5 Spring Gap  
### AREA THIRTY-ONE  
outhern  
Auberry Helms  
Balch Kern Canyon  
### DEMOTION UNIT EIGHT  
Chart Office)  
### DEMOTION UNIT NINE  
### MATERIALS DISTRUBTION  
Emeryville, Fremont, and Decoto Pipe Yard only  
### DEMOTION UNIT TEN  
(Deleted 1-1-94)  
132  
Watsonville  
Sunnyvale  
San Martin  
Santa Clara  
Salinas  
Soledad  
Santa Ynez  
Solvang  
Templeton  
Manton  
PitS  
Rock Creek  
Tiger Creek  
ise  
Tule River  
### DEMOTION UNIT ELEVEN  
GENERAL OFFICE (Including Fairfield Computer Center and West Sacramento Billing Center)  
Building  
Reprographics  
Mail  
Telecommunications  
uter Operations  
Vice President & Controller's Organization (including Customer Accounting)  
Design Drafting  
### DEMOTION UNIT TWELVE  
### STEAM GENERATION  
### NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION  
### AREA THIRTY-TWO  
Geysers Power Plant in Demation Areas 8, 9, 10 and 11.  
### AREA THIRTY-THREE  
Pittsburg and Contra Costa in Demotion Areas 1, 2, 3 and 4.  
### AREA THIRTY-FOUR  
Oakland, Potrero and Hunters Point in Demotion Areas 6 and 7.  
### AREA THIRTY-FIVE  
Morro Bay, Moss Landing, Diablo Canyon in Demotion Areas 27 and 28.  
### AREA THIRTY-SIX  
Humboldt Bay Power Plant in Demotion Area 12.  
### NOTES:  
1) The Demotion Unit wilt be the geographical area listed in 1 through 6 above, unless a work group or  
department is specifically designated as a separate demotion unit, such as Hydro Generation.  
2) ee Office, Garage and Materials employees have 19.4, 19.5 and 19.6 demotion rights in Demotion  
nit 2.  
133  
Printed by IBEW Loca! Union 1245 Members  
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO  
### LOCAL UNION 1245  
P. O. Box 2547, Vacaville, CA 95696  
30 Orange Tree Circle, Vacaville, CA 95687  
(707} 452-2700