  
Zyoo S24  
6367  
### AGREEMENT  
### BY AND BETWEEN  
cach  
### ACME MARKETS, INC gr So"  
AND joe  
### TF  
### UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 136  
### TABLE OF CONTENT  
### ARTICLE PAGE  
### | PUTPOSE. l  
HW Recognition and l  
Ul Management l  
IV Union Shop - Payroll 2  
V Union 2  
VI 3  
Vii Personnel! 3  
Vi Leaves of Absence Without 6  
IX Leaves of Absence With 6  
x Bereavement Leave With 7  
XI Grievance and Arbitration 7  
XU Right of Discharge and 9  
XW 9  
XIV Hours and 13  
XV 15  
XVI 15  
16  
XVII Miscellaneous Working 19  
XIX Hiring  
xX Union Stewards, Enforcement of 20  
XXI Health and 2]  
### XXII PenS1ON 23  
XXII Severance bas 24  
XXIV INO LA vss nena ue ven 90 9 rt st sess owe nies nis nek d RASH HAIG HS 24  
XXV Store 25  
XXVI No: Strikes, No 25  
XXVII Separab 26  
XAXVIT Duration of 26  
ccc 27  
Exhibit Do... 28  
Exhibit 29  
EFFECTIVE DATE: April 25, 2004  
EXPIRATION DATE: April 25, 2009 ~  
   
### AGREEMENT  
This AGREEMENT by and between ACME MARKETS, INC. (hereinafter referred to as  
### “Employer") and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 1360  
(hereinafter referred to as "Union").  
### ARTICLE I  
### PURPOSE  
The Employer and the Union have reached agreement with each other in regard to wages,  
hours and other conditions of employment which are set forth, with particularity, in this  
Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
Whenever a word is used in the masculine gender, it is intended to and does include both  
men and women equally.  
### ARTICLE HU  
### RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION  
The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of all employees,  
except meat, delicatessen, seafood employees, store managers and other supervisors in its retail  
food stores served by the Warehouse located in Denver, PA within the geographical jurisdiction  
that currently exists.  
All work and services connected with or incidental to the handling or selling of  
merchandise offered for sale in Employer’s stores shall be performed by the employees referred  
to above, except that the Employer may use any direct store delivery assistance available to the  
trade. Upon a written request by the Union, the Company will provide the Union with the total  
monthly hours and total monthly sales for a store for the preceding (3) three months. If the  
proportion of hours compared to sales has been significantly reduced in the preceding (3) three  
months, then restrictions on vendor utilization for that particular store shall revert back to the  
restrictions in place under the parties’ contract dated April 24, 1999 through April 24, 2004.  
In the event there is, during the term of this Agreement, a merger or other similar  
consolidation between Local 1360 and another Local of the United Food and Commercial  
Workers International Unions, AFL-CIO, effecting the employees of Acme under the terms of  
this Agreement, the parties to this Agreement will establish a Special Committee to resolve any  
and all seniority and/or contractual questions which may arise as a result of such merger or  
consolidation.  
### ARTICLE Ii  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
All rights and powers not expressly restricted or limited by the terms and conditions of  
this Agreement shall remain in full force and be exercised at the sole discretion of the Employer.  
~  
  
### ARTICLE IV  
### UNION SHOP - PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS  
I. It shall be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement shall  
become and remain members in good standing in the Union. New employees shall become  
members of the Union on the thirty-first (31st) day following their date of employment. These  
conditions shall be enforced and applied in accordance with the provisions of Section 8(A)3 of  
the National Labor Relations Act as amended. At time of hire, all necessary Union forms will be  
completed and forwarded to the Union on a monthly basis.  
2. Employer agrees to discharge any employee for non-payment of dues and/or initiation fees,  
upon seven (7) days’ written notice from the Union to do so.  
3. The Employer shail check-off uniform initiation fees, regular union dues and delinquent dues,  
upon presentation to it of a lawful check-off authorization. The Union shall certify to the  
Employer the amount to be deducted. Said deductions shall be on a weekly basis and will be  
remitted to the Union on a monthly basis by name and amount.  
4. The Employer agrees to deduct authorized Credit Union payments from the wages of  
employees upon receipt of proper written authorization. All such deductions and remittances  
shall be forwarded to the Credit Union Office on a weekly basis.  
5. It is further recognized that the Union has a Political Action Committee and is entitled to  
voluntary contributions by its members. Upon receipt of a proper written authorization from an  
employee, the Employer agrees to deduct weekly payments in the amount of twenty-five cents  
($.25) or more from the wages of said employee.  
6. Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims,  
demands, suits or liability that might arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken in  
respect to all deductions made pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE V  
### UNION ACTIVITIES  
1. There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of race, color, creed, age, sex,  
sexual preference or Union membership. It is agreed Union duties and activities will not be  
carried on during hours of work. During hours when store is closed, proper security measures  
shall be taken. This shall not prevent the Union Officials from entering stores to satisfy  
themselves that this Agreement is being observed.  
2. Complaints and grievances will be discussed with Officials of the Employer. All discussions  
with associates pertaining to complaints and grievances must take place during non-working  
hours or while on break, in the break room or other approved meeting area, except for very brief  
conversations about the nature of the complaint or grievance or to arrange a future meeting.  
3. Bulletin boards in the Employer's stores may be used by the Union provided any notices  
posted are first approved by the Employer, except for Union meeting notices which only contain  
time, place and date of meeting.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### SENIORITY  
1. Seniority lists shall be established twice (2x) each year and submitted to the Union.  
2. Seniority shall be calculated by continuous service from the last date of employment within  
the bargaining unit. Employees who are involuntarily laid off and subsequently rehired shall  
retain their former seniority regardless of any change in their place of employment as follows:  
Up to 2 years of continuous service -  
One (1) Year from layoff date  
2 Years and up to 10 years of continuous service -  
Number of years equal to number of years of service  
10 or more Years of continuous service -  
All former seniority.  
Employees being recalled shall report for work no later than seventy-two (72) hours after  
receiving notice. Any employee who refuses a notice of recall shall no longer retain their former  
seniority or nght to recall.  
3. a. Employees with six (6) months of continuous service who are absent on account of ill  
health shall retain their sentority for a period of eighteen (18) months from the date of absence.  
b. Employees absent due to a work-related accident shall retain full seniority upon a duly  
authorized release from Worker's Compensation, a personal physician and a Company physician.  
4. In accordance with the current Veterans Reemployment Rights Act, employees returning from  
military service shall have their wages and classification determined provided they apply for  
work within the required period.  
5. Employees who are upgraded will carry their seniority for purposes of wage rates and they  
will not suffer a reduction in their rate of pay.  
### ARTICLE Vi  
### PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS  
### A. PROMOTIONS:  
1. All promotions shall be based on the employee's qualifications, availability, and seniority. A  
ninety (90) day probationary period will apply for promotions to a classified position and a thirty  
(30) day probationary period will apply for all other promotions.  
2. Permanent job openings will be posted in all stores within the District for a seven (7) day  
period during which time employees will notify their Store Supervisor of an interest to fill the  
opening. An employee may be temporarily assigned to fill the position. A rated job may be  
reposted after ninety (90) days, if there are still no bidders, it may be filled from any source.  
3. Employees with two (2) or more years of service who are denied a promotion other than a  
rated classification due to a lack of training may request and be offered the opportunity for cross  
training.  
4. Union to receive a copy of all posting and bid forms which shall be retained for a period of six  
(6) months.  
5. For purposes of filling full time day clerk jobs only, part time employees will receive one (1)  
year full time seniority credit for each two (2) years of part time service. The offering of full  
time day jobs will be alternated between full time night crew and part time employees  
(day/evening).  
6. Full time seniority shall commence the date the employee became full time. Upon such  
upgrading employee will receive full credit in determining their proper wage and vacation  
benefits.  
7. The Company will conduct a survey twice a year between March 1 to March 21 and  
September 1 to September 21 of all baggers requesting a promotion to clerk. Each bagger will  
designate three (3) stores where they would accept a clerk’s position. All clerk positions will be  
offered to those who requested promotion in seniority order. Any bagger refusing such a  
promotion will not be considered until the next six (6) month survey becomes effective. When  
the survey list has been exhausted, all baggers, regardless of their length of service, will be  
considered for available openings on a store-by-store basis before seeking outside applicants.  
### B. DEMOTIONS:  
Demotions from a higher rated classification shall be worked out in conjunction with the  
Union.  
### C. LAYOFFS:  
|. In the case of layoff due to lack of work, ofa full time or part time employee, the Employer  
shall first recognize seniority within the job classification. The employee with the least seniority  
in the store shall have the right to displace the least senior employee within (a ) the District  
Manager's territory within the Union jurisdiction; (b ) the adjoining District Manager's territory  
within the Union jurisdiction; { c ) within the Union jurisdiction.  
When an employee has exercised their rights in accordance with the above paragraphs, said  
employee shall have the right to return to that area if a similar position becomes available within  
a period of twelve (12) months.  
2. The Employer shall give one (1) week's notice of an intended layoff of full time employees,  
and seventy-two (72) hours notice of a permanent layoff of part time employees to the Union and  
the employee.  
3. In the case of temporary layoff caused by stnkes, acts of God, power failure or other reasons  
beyond the control of the Employer, advance notice need not be given in regards to daily or  
weekly work schedules.  
4. In the event of a reduction from full time to part time, due to lack of work, the least senior full  
time employee within the job classification shall be the first to be reduced. Such employees,  
based on their seniority, shall receive all available straight time hours up to the maximum part  
time hours within the store. In an effort to prevent layoff or reduction, upon discussions with the  
Union, these employees may be scheduled to work three (3) straight time nights.  
5. The Employer shall combine existing part time assignments within each store so as to provide  
the maximum part time employment per individual within the definition of part ttme employment  
and seniority of the employee (provided the part time employee is regularly and continuously  
available to work such hours); and further to create as many forty (40) hour positions as possible.  
### D. TRANSFERS:  
All transfers provided for herein shall be within the employee's job classification with the  
least senior qualified employee being transferred when necessary.  
Permanent transfers shall be by seniority in accordance with ability, practicability,  
transportation and travel time. Where possible, transfers will be within the Distnct Manager's  
terntory.  
Temporary transfers will be based on the needs of the business. Employees will be  
reimbursed the difference in cost of transportation if there is an increase in their normal cost of  
carfare.  
In stores which are in jeopardy, parties agree to meet and work out a program to improve  
operations in these stores.  
Based on needs of business, employees who submit written notice to the Company and  
the Union will be given the opportunity to be transferred before new employees are hired.  
### E. REHIRING:  
Employees on layoff shall be the first to be rehired, within their classification, in the  
event of a job opening, in accordance with Article VI  
The Employer will notify the Union monthly of all new hires, promotions, demotions,  
layoffs, and permanent transfers of bargaining unit members during the previous weeks.  
   
### F. RETURN AFTER ILLNESS OR ACCIDENT:  
Where an employee has been absent from work due to illness or accident for one (1) week  
or more, employee shall be required to give Employer not less than forty-eight (48) hours notice  
excluding Sunday, of his intention to return to work. Such employee shall have the right to  
displace a junior employee either full or part time, regardless of the posted schedule, without  
notice.  
### ARTICLE VIE  
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY  
1. Employees who are appointed or elected to a Union position shall be granted a leave of  
absence upon proper written notice from the Union. At the end of such service with the Union, if  
physically qualified, they shall be returned without loss of seniority, and at their former wage  
rate, plus any increase or less any reduction that may have become effective during such absence.  
Time spent on temporary Union leave will be considered as time worked for seniority, vacation,  
personal holidays and other terms and conditions of employment.  
2. Employees appointed to a management position may, at the discretion of the Employer, be  
returned to the bargaining unit following a meeting with the Union to determine their seniority  
and classification.  
3. Employer will comply with mandated State Law, unless superseded by Federal Law, to grant  
an unpaid leave of absence of up to twelve (12) weeks in any twenty-four (24) month period to  
parents of a newborn or adopted child, or to employees who need to care for a sick parent, child  
or spouse. Additionally, for the purpose of caring for a newborn, a leave of absence not to  
exceed six (6) months may be granted.  
4. Any employee may be given a leave of absence not to exceed one (1) year for any reason  
acceptable to the Employer. This decision shall not be withheld arbitrarily or capriciously.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY  
### Y DUTY:  
All employees actually summoned and serving on junes will be granted time off, when  
needed, and will receive the difference between their straight time basic weekly pay and the  
amount received while on jury duty except on their normally scheduled day off. They will be  
expected to work when the jury is not in session, but under no circumstances shall the application  
of this clause result in a change in the basic weekly pay or normal weekly schedule. Night crew  
employees shall be excused from their daily or nightly schedule without loss of earnings.  
### UNION ORIENTATION LEAVE:  
Following the completion of sixty (60) days of employment the Employer will schedule  
employees two (2) hours off with pay to attend an Onentation Program. The employee will  
receive an explanation of the terms and conditions of their employment, fringe benefits and union  
policy. “  
fed  
Proof of attendance from the Union must be presented to the Store Supervisor.  
Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from any claims arising out  
of injury to or by the employee while driving to or from the above session.  
### ARTICLE X  
### BEREAVEMENT LEAVE WITH PAY  
In the case of a death of an employee's spouse or child they shall be granted four (4) days  
off. In the event of a death of the employee's parent, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law,  
grandparent or grandchild, step-parent or step-child, they shall be granted three (3) days off. The  
time off shail be within the scheduled work week, not counting Sunday or their regular day off.  
The application of this clause shall not result in a change in the employee's basic weekly pay.  
The term “grandparent” shall be construed to include step-grandparents, provided that the total of  
grandparents and step-grandparents shall not exceed six (6).  
### ARTICLE XI  
### GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE  
The parties agree with the following principles, concepts, and expressions of intent:  
To solve all disputes concerning the interpretation and application of the Agreement as  
expeditiously as possible.  
To create an atmosphere of problem solving designed to contnbute to the success of the  
Company and the well being of the Union's members and the protection of their contractual  
nghts.  
To not change the actual procedural steps of this Article without the approval of the  
### Executive Board of Local 1360.  
### l. RIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
The parties will meet and agree to a side letter regarding the grievance procedures.  
The parties agree with the following principles, concepts, and expressions of intent:  
To solve all disputes concerning the interpretation and application of the Agreement as  
expeditiously as possible.  
To create an atmosphere of problem solving designed  
to contribute to the success of the Company and the well being of the Unton's members and the  
protection of their contractual rights.  
To not change the actual procedural steps of this  
Article without the approval of the Executive Board of Local 1360.  
  
All grievances or disputes arising during the term of this Agreement conceming the  
interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement shall be handled in the manner  
set forth below:  
STEP ONE: All such grievances or disputes must be brought to the attention of the  
other party within two (2) weeks after the occurrence.  
STEP TWO: Should the matter remain unresolved either party may file its grievance in  
writing with the other party. (A "party" 1s defined as the Employer or  
Union, not an individual employee).  
### ARBITRATION  
1. If any such grievance cannot be resolved, than no later than 90 days from the filing of the  
grievance, and upon five (5) days notice to the other party, the matter may be submitted to an  
impartial arbitrator, or the American Arbitration Association, who shall handle the matter in  
accordance with its rules.  
2. The arbitrator shall not have the authority to amend, modify or in any manner change this  
Agreement. The cost of the Arbitrator shall be shared by the parties. The decision of the  
Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties and the employee(s) involved.  
3. The right of the Employer or the Union to seek legal recourse against action in breach of  
Article XXIV without submission to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Article is  
expressly recognized by the parties.  
4. As determined by Company and Union Representatives, certain grievances raised to the level  
of arbitration may be processed through an alternative method. In such use the parties will select  
an Arbitrator or Mediator, from an established list and the case will be presented by employees of  
the parties.  
5. Alternatively, either party in the event of an alleged or asserted breach of Article may  
institute expedited arbitration by telegram to American Arbitration Association and the other  
party, and an Arbitrator shall be designated within twenty-four (24) hours. The hearing shall be  
held promptly, but not later than twenty-four (24) hours of the notice. The Arbitrator shall issue  
an award three (3) hours after the hearing, it shall be in writmg, with or without an opinion,  
however, either party may request a written opinion. The Arbitrator may award injunctive or  
other relief. Enforcement of such an Award by a Court of Law is not precluded by election of  
this alternative procedure.  
6. The question of damages shall be exclusively for the Arbitrator and not for a Court of Law,  
except as it may be part of an Award enforced by a Court.  
7. This Article is the exclusive method of determining employee grievances or disputes  
concerning the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement. No employee or  
former employee shall have any right under this Agreement with respect to any claim,  
proceeding, action or otherwise on the basis of or by reason of any claims that the Union or any  
7  
8  
Union Officer or Representative has acted or failed to act relative to presentation, prosecution, or  
settlement of any grievance or other matter as to which the Union or any Union Officer or  
Representative has authority or discretion to act or not to act under the terms of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE Xi  
### RIGHT OF DISCHARGE AND APPEAL  
|. The Employer shall have the right to discharge any employee for good and sufficient cause.  
Any employee working for a competitor while on vacation or time off shali be considered  
terminated.  
2. Any employee with more than sixty (60) or ninety (90) days (where applicable) of continuous  
service shall have the right to appeal a discharge to the Union, who must make an appeal in  
writing within two (2) weeks of the discharge. Failure to do so will result in the matter being  
considered closed.  
3. Upon such appeal, the Employer and the Union shall jointly investigate the reasons and  
justification of the discharge. If the parties cannot reach an agreement, then the matter shall be  
handled in accordance with Article XI.  
4. In the event that the discharge is found not to be justified, the employee may be reinstated  
with or without back pay and restoration of privileges and seniority.  
### ARTICLE XII  
### WAGES  
During the term of this Agreement, the following wage increases and bonus payments  
shall be granted in accordance with the terms and provisions as noted below:  
Effective April 25, 2004, the wage rates for all employees at or above top rate (except  
baggers in progression) shall be increased to the closest $.50 increment. (Example: An associate  
at a rate of $15.07 will be increased to a rate of $15.50.) If such wage increase is $.20 or less for  
an employee, then such employee shall receive a lump sum bonus equal to $.20 per hour times  
the actual number of hours paid (up to a maximum of 40 hours per week) in the preceding year.  
The following Across-the-Board (ATB) increases shall apply to employees at or above  
the top of their progression on the date of the increase:  
   
   
Date 7/24/05 10/22/06 1/20/08  
ATB Increase per hour $.35 $.40 $.40  
Baggers $.20 $.20 $.20  
~  
The following minimum wage scales will be effective during the term of this Agreement:  
   
   
### CLASSIFIED POSITIONS  
4/25/04 7/24/05 10/22/06 1/20/06  
ATB 35 40 40  
Assistant Manager 19.00 19.35 19.75 20.15  
Produce Manager 19.00 19.35 19.75 20.15  
Head Cashier 18.50 18.85 19.25 19.65  
Dairy Manager 18.00 18.35 18.75 19.15  
Duties of the bagger shall include cleaning, bagging, filling bag bins, carrying out orders, returning shop  
backs, picking up carts, parcel pickup, bottle returns, and general store cleaning, excluding waxing and  
buffing of store floors.  
Effective April 25, 2004, the wage rates for all employees in scale (except baggers in progression) shall be  
increased to the closest $.50 increment. If such wage increase is less than $.20 for an employee, then such  
employee shall receive a lump sum bonus equal to $.20 per hour times the actual number of hours paid (up  
to a maximum of 40 hours per week) in the preceding year.  
The following minimum wage scales will be effective during the term of this Agreement:  
### CLERKS  
Start 6.50  
After 6 months 7.00  
After 12 months 7.50  
After 18 months 8.00  
After 24 months §.50  
Clerks Who Are Checker Qualified Continue on Scale  
After 30 months 9.00  
After 36 months 9.50  
After 42 months 10.50  
After 48 months 11.00  
### BAGGER  
Start 6.15  
After 6 months 6.30  
After 12 months 6.60  
After 18 months 6.85  
After 24 months 7.10  
In the event an employee is hired at a rate above the starting rates listed in this Agreement, such  
employee shall move through the applicable progression scale every six (6) months at the rates specifically  
listed in the scale.  
oe  
10  
### ALL GENERAL MAINTENANCE CLERKS WILL BE RED CIRCLED  
### GENERAL CLERK CLASSIFICATION:  
Start $5.50  
After 30 Days — 5.70  
After 6 Months 6.00  
After 18 Months 6.50  
After 24 Months 7.00  
After 30 Months 7.50  
After 36 Months §.00  
The duties of a General Clerk may include work in the bakery, salad/melon bar, floral, bulk food, general  
merchandise, ‘Skyline’, photo lobby, cosmetics, movie rentals, garden centers (seasonal), as well as  
spotting loads and pallets, price changes, price checks, signs, cardboard (pulling and baling), blocking  
shelves, scan tests, general cleaning, demonstrators (including preparation) and cigarettes over the counter.  
Acme agrees that within the jurisdiction of Local 1360 on aggregate no more than four (4) General Clerks  
per store will be used at any time during the life of this Agreement. General Clerks shall be permitted to  
progress to any clerk position after eighteen (18) months. Such movement shall be based on seniority,  
qualifications and consistent with the needs of the business. Any general clerk moving into the regular  
clerk classification shall slot into the regular clerks progression at the next highest rate. General Clerk  
benefits will be the same as those for baggers. In the event of a layoff, these employees shall be laid off  
prior to any clerks.  
The General Clerks classification will not be implemented until the buy-out is completed (August 1, 1997)  
unless existing part time employees are unavailable to work the hours. The number of General Clerks  
employed in conventional! stores shail be limited as follows:  
### VOLUME NUMBER GENERAL CLERKS  
UP TO $100,000.00 ] GENERAL CLERK  
$200,000.00 2 GENERAL CLERKS  
$300,000.00 3 GENERAL CLERKS  
$400,000.00 4 GENERAL CLERKS  
The Union and the Company agree that the General Clerk Classification is not intended to eliminate hours  
that were available to employees on the payroll as of April 27, 1997.  
### PHARMACY TECHNICIAN CLASSIFICATION:  
Employees in this classification shall receive an additional thirty cents ($.30) per hour premium.  
The Employer will have the right to select the candidates for this classification. Such selection shall be  
based on: skill, experience, training and the needs of the business. Openings for this position shall be  
posted in accordance with the terms and conditions provided under the “bid procedure” as outlined under  
### Article VII-PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS.  
go  
11  
This classification will not be subject to “bumping” from any other classification, except in the event of a  
layoff.  
### SCAN COORDINATOR:  
Employees in this classification shall receive an additional sixty cents ($.60) per hour premium. Those  
currently assigned as Scan Coordinators will in this position and current FT/PT status.  
### DEPARTMENT MANAGERS:  
The following will receive additional sixty cents ($.60) hourly premium: Customer Service Representative  
and Frozen Food Manager in stores with average weekly volume of $275,000 or more, General  
Merchandise Manager, in store with average weekly volume of $35,000 in general merchandise sales.  
Bakery Manager in store with oven and proofer will receive seventy-five cents ($.75) per hour premium.  
All specified store volumes to be determined on the basis of six (6) consecutive months.  
When any department manager or an employee in a higher rated job 1s absent from work for  
vacations, illness and temporary absences of three (3) days or more, they shall be replaced by another full  
time employee who shall be paid in accordance with the rates noted in this Article from the first day of  
replacement.  
The Employer agrees to the establishment of the following uniform classifications:  
Assistant Manager  
Produce Manager  
Head Dairy Clerk  
Head Cashier (front end)  
In stores to a volume of $60,000.00 there shall be one (1) rated classification.  
In stores with a volume of $60,000.00 to $100,000.00 there shall be two (2) rated classifications.  
In stores with a volume of $100,000.00 and over there shall be four (4) rated  
classifications.  
Store volume to be determined on basis of six (6) consecutive months.  
When reduction of store volume permits certain classifications in stores to be eliminated,  
the affected employees shall be removed only by attrition.  
Any store that drops below the stated volume for a period of six (6) consecutive months shall result  
in the elimination of excessive classifications by attrition.  
12  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### HOURS AND OVERTIME  
1. Employees will be given the opportunity to advise their Store Supervisor of their preference for  
early-late, moming, afternoon or evening hour schedule. On a regular and continuous basis the store  
supervisor shall attempt to accommodate these requests based on employee's seniority and subject to  
business requirements.  
2. The basic straight time work week for full time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours to be worked  
in five (5) eight (8) hour days, Monday through Saturday. By mutual agreement, and/or for purposes of  
creating a full time job, employees may be scheduled three (3) eight (8) hour days, one (1) six (6) hour day  
and one (1) ten (10) hour day.  
3. Work between 5:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. shall be at the straight time rate of pay, except as provided  
below.  
a. Employer may schedule full time employees to work straight time night(s) within the forty (40)  
hour work week as follows:  
### HIRED/PROMOTED NUMBER OF NIGHTS  
before 9/9/74 One (1) to 10:00 P.M., 12 Midnight by mutual  
agreement, includes employees reduced to part time  
before 9/9/74 and later restored to full time.  
Between 9/9/74 Two (2) to 12 Midnight  
4/18/87  
After 4-19-87 Three (3) to 12 Midnight, except when the needs of  
the business may require up to five (5) nights which  
will be rotated and scheduled by inverse seniority.  
4. The straight time work week for part-time Employees shall be Monday through Saturday, 5:00 am to  
12:00 midnight, except Sunday to 2:00 am up to a maximum of thirty (30) hours per week.  
Time and one-half (1-1/2) shall be paid to part-time employees for hours worked in excess of thirty (30)  
hours in one week, and for work in excess of eight (8) hours in one (1) day, or work in excess of five days  
in any work week.  
5. Full and part time employees may be scheduled to work up to thirty (30) minutes after store closing  
within the straight time limit.  
6.a. Employees regularly and continuously assigned to night crew shall receive a premium for actual hours  
worked as follows:  
### BEFORE JUNE 3, 1984  
Up to three (3) years, ten percent (10%) of basic straight time hourly rate of pay, up to a maximum  
of $1.075 per hour. .  
13  
Three (3) to six (6) years, eleven percent (11%) of basic straight time hourly rate of pay, up to a  
maximum of $1.182 per hour.  
Six (6) or more years, twelve percent (12%) of basic straight time hourly rate of pay , up to a  
maximum of $1.30 per hour.  
AFTER JUNE 3, 1984  
Ten percent (10%) of basic straight time rate, or fifty cents ($.50) per hour whichever is the lesser.  
b. The employee in charge of and responsible for the work of the Night Crew shall receive an  
additional premium of twenty dollars ($20.00) per week. Employees filling in for this position for more  
than one (1) scheduled night in a week shall receive one-fifth (1/Sth) of the rate per night.  
c. Part time employees may be assigned on a night shift of at least eight (8) hours per night up to  
four (4) nights at the straight time rate plus applicable night premium.  
d. Part time employees may work any combination of day, evening, or night hours in the same work  
week provided there are no split shifts.  
e. Full time employees assigned to the night crew prior to April 19, 1987, shall receive two (2)  
consecutive work nights off, one of which shall be Sunday (10:00 P.M. Saturday to 9:00 A.M. Sunday).  
However, consistent with the above, to meet the needs of the business, part ttme employees may be  
scheduled by inverse seniority to the night shift. They will not lose day hours as a result of or not accepting  
night crew work.  
f. The night crew shift may not start before 10:00 P.M. and finish no later than 9:00 A.M. Full time  
night crew clerks may be scheduled to work five (5) eight (8) hour nights, three (3) nights, two (2) days, or  
three (3) days, two (2) nights, on a regular basis. Also by mutual agreement they may work four (4) ten  
(10) hour nights, and they may start work on Sunday at 10:00 P.M. at the straight time rate.  
7. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime or premium pay. Hours worked at premium pay on Sunday  
and holidays shall not be included in the computation of weekly overtime.  
8. All meal periods may not be less than thirty (30) minutes nor more than one (1) hour. When required on  
a regular basis and upon the request of the employee, the meal period will be one (1) hour.  
9. There shall be no split shifts worked by any employee.  
10. Employees working more than six (6) hours in a work day shall receive two (2) daily rest periods of  
fifteen (15) minutes each, without loss of pay, one to be in the first and second half of the work day, as near  
as possible to the middle of the shift. Employees working six (6) hours or less shall receive one (1) fifteen  
(15) minute rest period as near as possible to the middle of the shift.  
11. Part time employees hired prior to April 25, 1999 and baggers hired prior to April 25, 1999, shall  
receive a guarantee of four (4) hours per day when scheduled, and a minimum of twenty (20) hours per  
week provided the employee is available on a regular and continuous basis. Part time employees hired on  
or after April 25, 1999 shall receive a guarantee of four (4) hours per day when scheduled and a minimum  
7  
14  
of sixteen (16) hours per week provided the employee is available on a regular and continuous basis. Any  
sixteen (16) hour employee receiving hours over their minimum would then entitle a twenty (20) hour  
employee to receive the same amount of hours over their minimum. Baggers hired on or after Apmil 25,  
1999 shall receive a guarantee of four (4) hours per day when scheduled and a minimum of twelve (12)  
hours per week, provided the employee is available on a regular and continuous basis. The weekly  
minimum is not applicable to probationary employees, students, and employees holding another job.  
12. A daily working schedule for each employee shall be prepared in ink and posted in a conspicuous place  
by Friday noon of the week preceding the week for which the schedule 1s effective.  
13. Upon agreement between the Store Supervisor and employee, exceptions to the provisions of this  
Article may be made, which shall be reduced to writing and approved by the Union.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### SUNDAY WORK  
1. For work performed on Sunday the following premiums shall apply:  
All full time employees and part time employees hired before January 24, 1993 time and one  
half (1-1/2).  
All other employees will be eligible for premium as noted below:  
Start $1.00  
After 12 Mos. $2.00  
After 24 Mos. $3.00  
After 36 Mos. $4.00  
2. Sunday work shall be rotated by classification, among those who are qualified to perform the work, as  
determined by the Employer. If there are an insufficient number of qualified part time employees to staff  
the store then full time employees, upgraded or hired after April 19, 1987, will be scheduled by inverse  
seniority, and will not be required to work more than every other Sunday.  
3. All employees scheduled for Sunday work will be scheduled for a minimum of four (4) hours.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### HOLIDAYS  
1. Work performed on specified legal holidays shall be compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the  
straight time hourly rate, in addition to the straight time holiday pay.  
2. Upon the completion of thirty (30) days' service, full time employees shall be eligible for eight (8) hours  
pay. Upon the completion of sixty (60) days, but less than one (1) year of continuous service, part time  
employees shall be paid four (4) hours holiday pay provided one (1) of the holidays falls on a day they  
would normally be scheduled. Part time employees with one (1) or more years of service regardless of  
whether or not they are scheduled to work shail receive four (4) hours holiday pay. All employees must  
work the scheduled day before and after the holiday, Sunday excepted. Part time employees must work one  
  
15  
(1) day during the holiday week. Schedules will not be changed to avoid holiday pay.  
3. The following holidays or the days observed as such shall be recognized: New Years Day, Memorial  
Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.  
The Employer may open the store on Christmas Day for business. In the event the Employer is open  
on Christmas, under no circumstances will any employee be required to work. The store will be staffed by  
volunteers only. Those employees who do volunteer to work on Christmas Day will be paid for all hours  
worked on Christmas Day at double time (2x).  
When requested, employees may schedule a personal holiday to celebrate Martin Luther King's  
birthday. However, the Employer shall receive two (2) weeks notice and the day off shall be granted on a  
seniority basis within the store, based on the needs of the business. Temporary transfers will be arranged to  
meet scheduling needs of the store.  
4. Upon the completion of three (3) months’ service with the Employer, all full and part time employees  
entitled to three (3) personal holidays (full time eight (8) hours; part time four (4) hours) each  
calendar year. One (1) holiday shall be taken in each four (4) month period, selection will be by mutual  
agreement and restricted to the first four (4) working days of the week.  
5. All time worked in holiday weeks in excess of thirty-two (32) hours for full time, and thirty-one (31)  
hours for part time employees shall be compensated at the rate of time and one half (1-1/2X) the straight  
time hourly pay.  
6. In a week which includes any specified holiday, the work week for full trme employees shall be  
thirty-two (32) hours of work in four (4) days, however by mutual agreement, the employee may work forty  
(40) hours at straight time, plus holiday pay. Also, by mutual agreement, a part ttme employee may work  
thirty-five (35) hours at straight time, plus holiday pay.  
7. Holiday work will be offered by seniority with the least senior qualified employee being required to  
work.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### VACATIONS  
The Employer will grant a paid vacation subject to the conditions of this Article to eligible  
employees.  
### A. TYPES OF VACATION GRANTS  
### LENGTH OF CONTINUOUS REGULAR FULL REGULAR PART TIME  
### ON-THE-JOB SERVICE TIME EMPLOYEES TIME EMPLOYEES  
1. More than three (3) 1/12th of a week's None  
months but less than basic straight time  
one (1) year on May 1 wage for each full  
of the calendar year. month's service  
prior to May 1.  
oC  
16  
2. One (1) year or more  
but less than three (3)  
years on May 1 of the  
calendar year.  
3. Three (3) years or  
more but less than  
eight (8) years on  
the Saturday nearest  
September 30 of the  
calendar year.  
4. Eight (8) years  
or more but less  
than fourteen (14)  
years on the Saturday  
nearest September 30  
of the calendar year.  
5. Fourteen (14) years  
or more but less than  
twenty (20) years on  
the Saturday nearest  
September 30 of the  
calendar year.  
6. Twenty (20) years  
or more on the  
Saturday nearest September 30  
of the calendar year.  
One (1) week  
Two (2) Weeks  
Three (3) Weeks  
Four (4) Weeks  
Five (5) Weeks  
The number of  
weekly hours  
normally worked.  
Twice the number  
weekly hours  
normally worked.  
Thrice the  
number of weekly  
hours normally  
worked.  
Quadruple the  
number of weekly  
hours normally  
worked.  
Five times the  
number of weekly  
hours normally  
worked.  
Baggers hired after May 10, 1999, shall be eligible for vacation as follows:  
### LENGTH OF  
One (1) year or more, but  
less than five (5) years on  
May 1 of the calendar year  
Five (5) years or more but  
less than fifteen (15) years  
on the Saturday nearest  
September 30 of the calendar  
year |  
Fifteen (15) years or more  
on the Saturday nearest  
September 30 of the calendar  
year  
### NTINUOUS ON-THE-JOB SERVICE  
One (1) Week  
Two (2) Weeks  
Three (3) Weeks  
17  
The number of weekly hours  
normally worked  
Twice the number weekly  
hours normally worked  
Thrice the number weekly  
hours normally worked  
### B. CONDITIONS  
1. For vacation purposes only a regular full time employee is defined as one who is regularly and  
continuously scheduled to work at least forty (40) hours a week; a part time employee is one who works  
less than forty (40) hours per week.  
2. The "vacation period" shall be defined as being May 1 through the Saturday nearest September 30,  
except that the third, fourth and fifth weeks vacation will be scheduled as business operations permit.  
3. Employees who are eligible for three (3) or more weeks of vacation may schedule one (1) week of  
vacation in days with the mutual consent of the store supervisor. These days may not be scheduled the day  
before or the day after a scheduled holiday or vacation.  
4. Unused vacation grant may not be over to the next year.  
5. All vacation pay shall be calculated on the employee's straight time hourly rate, which shall include a  
fixed night differential.  
6. Eligible employees who have changed from a part time to a regular full time basis, or vice versa, will be  
entitled to vacation consisting of the weekly credits earned for part time service and monthly credits for full  
time work during the vacation year.  
7. Vacation selections will be granted on a seniority basis, where possible. Vacation schedules must be  
arranged so as not to interfere with the efficient conduct of the business.  
8. Based on the needs of business, vacation up to and including two (2) weeks will be in consecutive days  
within the vacation period.  
9. Employees whose vacation includes a paid holiday may be granted one (1) day's pay or an additional day  
of vacation, to be scheduled immediately before or after the vacation.  
10. Eligible employees absent from work due to on-the-job (Worker's Compensation) injury sustained  
during the year, will be entitled to their vacation for that particular vacation year.  
Eligible employees absent from work due to non-occupational accident and sickness, for a  
cumulative period not to exceed six (6) months within the vacation year will be entitled to their vacation  
grant for that particular vacation year.  
In the event of absence in excess of six (6) months, employees will be entitled to six-twelfths  
(6/12ths) of the annual vacation, plus one-twelfth (1/12th) for each full month actively on the job during the  
vacation year.  
11. Employees entering the U.S. Armed Forces will be paid their earned prorata vacation grant through the  
last day of the month of active employment.  
Employee veterans who re-entered the Employer's service within the vacation period will be paid  
the full amount of their vacation as of the date of their scheduled vacation. ~.  
18  
Employee veterans returning after the final day of the vacation period will become eligible for the  
payment of the full amount of their vacation in the next vacation period.  
Employee on-the-job service interrupted by induction in the U.S. Armed Forces will be considered  
as continuous in determining the length of on-the-job service.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### MISCELLANEOUS WORKING CONDITIONS  
|. The Employer will furnish all uniforms required to be wom in the stores. Employees shall launder  
dnp-dry uniforms.  
2. Any changes in the dress code will be communicated to the Union prior to implementation and the  
Employer will furnish at no cost all uniforms or clothing with Acme logo required to be worn in the store.  
3. No employee handling cash shall be held responsible for any shortage (being cash or cash equivalent)  
unless:  
a. The employees are given their own register tll.  
b. The employees are given the opportunity to count their own cash and to initial the checker  
accountability readings at the beginning and close of the work day, to count all pickups and receive a  
receipt, and review their final balance report (if requested).  
c. Only one (1) employee shall be permitted to ring up on the cash drawer for which the clerk is  
responsible.  
d. The employee has failed to secure the register when it is not in use.  
4. All privileges not covered shall continue as before, and shall not be eliminated by virtue of the signing  
of this Agreement.  
5. Time clocks and time recording devices will be provided 1n all stores.  
a. The Employer and the Union agree that all employees must punch their time card and that a  
proven violation of established time clock rules, including working before punching in or after punching  
out, may subject such an employee to disciplinary action up to and including discharge.  
b. All time during which an employee is required to be at work or 1s required to be on duty or on  
the Employer's premises or at a given work place shal] be considered hours worked, and recorded on the  
time cards.  
6. Ifa physical examination or health permit is required by the Employer or Local Government, the cost of  
the examination or permit shall be borne by the Employer.  
7. No employee shall be required to take a polygraph test (lie detector) or any other similar examination.  
19  
8. a. Should the Employer intend to substitute scanning checkout systems for existing equipment in  
any store, the Employer agrees to notify the Union in advance and to provide the Union with a list of all  
employees regularly assigned to the store on the effective date of the utilization of said system.  
b. Said employees shall not be removed from the Employer's payroll as a result of the installation of  
such a system. Employees may continue to be transferred, assigned to other work, or laid off in accordance  
with the seniority provisions of this Agreement provided the layoff is for reasons other than the installation  
of such a system.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### HIRING EMPLOYEES  
|. Employer may hire employees from any source. Employees with individual recall rights shall have first  
preference. Union has nght to refer applicants, who shall not be rejected by the employer for arbitrary or  
capricious reasons.  
2. The first seventy (70) calendar days or one-hundred (100) calendar days in case of a new store opening  
or major remodel shall! be considered a probationary period. Employer may discipline or terminate any  
employee for any reason whatsoever during the probationary period and there shall be no right to appeal.  
3. The parties agree that there may be circumstances where applicants with similar prior experience in the  
area supermarket industry may need to be hired in classifications and/or wage/fringe benefits levels other  
than available to new hires. In these instances, employees hired after the ratification (April 24, 2004) of  
this Agreement may be given credit for previous similar supermarket (retail food) store experience acquired  
within four (4) years of the time in which application for employment is made, provided this experience is  
declared at the time the application for employment is made. However, the basic rate of pay as determined  
by the application of this clause shall not exceed the maximum rate of pay which was paid in acquiring the  
previous experience. The Employer and the Union will agree on how to implement this section.  
4. In the event marketplace conditions, competition, and/or state or federal minimum wage provisions  
should change during the term of this Agreement, the parties may agree to a modification in the wage rates.  
Such changes and modification will be in writing and approved by the Executive Board of the Union.  
### ARTICLE XX  
### UNION STEWARDS; ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARDS  
1, The Union will use its best efforts to secure as Stewards a high caliber of employee, who shall be  
required to conform to the standards and qualifications required by the Union and the Employer. Union  
Stewards shall be the last to be laid off within their full time or part time classification if reasonably able to  
perform the work.  
2. The Union shall furnish the Employer with a complete list of the Stewards, which list shall be  
supplemented from time to time as necessary.  
3. The Union shall do everything within its power to enforce the rules and regulations of the Employer and  
through advice, instructions and example, to maintain the highest standard of work.  
20  
4. The Union shall furnish to the Employer at least one (1) official Union Emblem for each of the  
Employer's stores covered by the Agreement, to be displayed in the customer area of the premises. Such  
official emblems shall remain the property of and shall be surrendered to the Union on demand.  
5. The Stewards or other individual employees covered hereby shall not be considered agents of the Union  
for the purpose of calling strikes or slowdowns.  
6. No transfers will be made without the consent of the Union, which shall not be withheld for arbitrarily or  
Capricious reasons.  
7. Full-time Shop Stewards shall be entitled to sixteen (16) hours of leave and part-time Shop Stewards to  
eight (8) hours of leave in each calendar year with pay for Shop Steward Training and Education. The  
Union will give the Employer two (2) weeks advance notice. The Shop Steward must, upon returning from  
the leave, present the Store Supervisor with written evidence from the Union that the Steward has used the  
leave for the purpose for which it was intended.  
8. Any person designated as a Steward by the Union shall receive any and all rights, benefits, duties and  
privileges of such position and the Union agrees not to designate more than one (1) person per store, unless  
such store is regularly open twelve (12) or more hours per day, where the limit will be two (2) persons, one  
of which shall be part time (or alternate). In a store with a night crew, a third (3rd) Steward may be  
designated, but only two (2) Stewards shall be paid for attendance at training and education sessions.  
9. In addition to the other benefits for Stewards, (e.g. sixteen (16) hours yearly paid training for full-time  
and eight (8) hours for part-time), they shall have super-seniority for layoffs, vacation schedules and shifts,  
provided in the latter instance, it shall be applied only where mutually agreeable to the Employer, based  
upon the qualifications and availability of such Steward.  
### ARTICLE XX]  
### HEALTH AND WELFARE  
1. During the term of this Agreement, the Employer agrees to contribute to the United Food and  
Commercial Workers Union and Participating Food Industry Employers Tri-State Health and Welfare Fund  
as follows:  
2. Effective May 1, 2003 rates of contribution shall be as follows:  
### PLAN ELIGIBILITY RATE OF CONTRIBUTION  
Pennsylvania New Jersey  
Part Time  
Option 1/2 12 months - two years NA NA  
Plan G After two years service $552.52 $536.94  
Full Time  
Plan H 6 months through 4 years  
Full time service $601.04 $545.33  
Plan I After 4 years Full time $811.82 $756.11  
Service .  
  
21  
Part time employees and baggers hired after May 10, 1999 will receive the following benefits:  
### PART TIME BAGGER  
### MONTHS BENEFITS BENEFITS TE  
After 6 months Vision Vision $ 1.90  
After 12 months + Dental +Dental $35.21  
After 18 months + Prescription +Prescription $97.77  
After 24 months + Life Insurance + Life Insurance $99.40  
After 30 months + Legal $137.20  
After 36 months + Major Medical $193.45  
After 42 months + Single Medical $231.42  
After 60 months Dependent coverage PlanG $552.52 (PA)  
$536.94 (NJ)  
Baggers promoted to the Clerk classification shall receive credit for the Clerk contribution based on  
their orginal hire date.  
Effective May 1, 2004, May 1, 2005 and May 1, 2006, The Employer agrees to increase  
contributions up to a maximum of 9% per year as determined by the Fund Administrator. Effective May 1,  
2007 and May 1,2008, The Employer agrees to increase contributions up to a maximum of 10% per year as  
determined by the Fund Administrator. If the actual cost of benefits is less then the maximum increase  
allowed in any year, then the remaining percentage may be carried over to the next year as long as the five  
(5) year total does not exceed 47%.  
### FULL TIME EMPLOYEES  
To remain eligible for H&W Benefit coverage and for a contribution to be made by the Employer on  
the Employees behalf, the full employee must have worked and/or received holiday or vacation pay for  
at least one hundred and twenty (120) hours during the preceding fiscal month. There shall be no more than  
twelve (12) monthly contributions during any twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.  
### PART TIME EMPLOYEES  
To remain eligible for H&W Benefit coverage and for a contribution to be made by the Employer on  
the Employees behalf, the part time employee must have worked and/or received holiday or vacation pay  
for at least fifty-six (56) hours during the preceding fiscal month. There shall be no more than twelve (12)  
monthly contributions during any twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.  
3. The Plan shall conform to the legal requirements of the law, both State and Federal. It shall include  
coverage under New Jersey Temporary Disability Law.  
4. The Health and Welfare Fund shall be governed by a Board of Trustees consisting of equal numbers from  
the Employers and the Unions.  
5. Eligible full time employees reduced to part time status shall continue to be eligible for full time Health  
and Welfare contributions and benefits for a period of six (6) months following their reduction in status.  
~  
7  
Ze  
6. If any benefits provided by the contribution required under the terms of this Article are at any time in the  
future provided in full or in part, individually or collectively, by any other source as a result of Federal or  
other legislation, the contribution applicable to the benefit provided by such legislation shall be applied,  
commencing with the effective date of such legislation in the following manner:  
Contributions applicable to the benefits replaced by legislation shall be applied to offset any  
operating deficit in the Welfare Fund and if any of such amounts so released are not required to  
offset the operating deficit of the Welfare Fund, the remainder shall be added to then current  
Pension contribution rate to accelerate the payments of Past Service Costs.  
7. It is agreed that all questions involving Health and Welfare not specifically set forth herein shall be  
determined by the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust governing the Plan.  
### ARTICLE XXII  
### PENSION PROVISIONS  
1. For the term of this Agreement the Employer shall contnbute to the United Food and Commercial  
Workers and Participating Food Industry Employers Tn-State Pension Fund for eligible employees as  
provided below. Employees will be eligible for contributions if they have actual hours worked during the  
previous month. Hours worked shall include reasons such as, vacations, personal holiday, funeral and jury  
leave.  
### FULL TIME EMPLOYEES  
First of the month following completion of ninety (90) days of continuous full time service. There shall be  
no more than twelve (12) such monthly contributions during any twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.  
After 90 $125.00  
After 4 188.00  
After 10 214.00  
### ALL PART TIME CLERKS AND THOSE BAGGERS HIRED BEFORE APRIL 25,1999  
1. For part time clerks, the first of the month following completion of ninety (90) days of continuous  
service. For baggers hired before April 25, 1999, the first of the month following completion of six (6)  
months of continuous service. There shall be no more than twelve (12) such monthly contnbutions during  
any twelve (12) consecutive calendar months. Subject to the determination of the actuary of the Tn-State  
Pension Fund that the actuarial soundness of the Fund 1s not adversely affected.  
### PART TIME CLERKS:  
90 Days or 6 Months to 4 $15.00  
4 Years to 10 47.00  
Over 10 59.00  
### BAGGERS:  
After 6 15.00  
23  
2. For purposes of this Article, a full time employee is defined as an employee who is regularly and  
continuously scheduled to work a forty (40) hour week.  
3. It 1s further understood and agreed that the Pension Plan as amended shall be considered as Appendix I  
of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust.  
4. The Pension Plan as adopted must have the continuing approval! of the Internal Revenue Service as an  
exempt Plan.  
5. It is agreed that all questions involving pensions not specifically set forth herein shall be determined by  
the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust governing the Plan.  
### ARTICLE XXII  
### SEVERANCE FUND  
l. The parties agree to the establishment of an Industry Severance Fund. Effective February 5, 1995  
and for the duration of this and the next successor agreement, the Employer shall contribute the sum of ten  
cents ($.10) per hour for all employees on the payroll as of January 23, 1993. Contributions shall be made  
for every straight time hour actually worked up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week for full time  
employees and thirty-five (35) hours per week for part time employees.  
2. All employees at the top of their wage scale on October 26, 1997, will receive $.25 per hour  
contnbution rate to the Severance Fund for all straight time hours worked beginning October 26, 1997. No  
contributions will be required for employees who have not reached the top of their wage progression or for  
those employees in the bagger classification.  
3. All employees at the top of their wage scale on April 26, 1998, will receive $.25 per hour  
contribution rate to the Severance Fund for all straight time hours worked beginning April 26, 1998. No  
contributions will be required for employees who have not reached the top of their wage progression or for  
those employees in the bagger classification.  
4. All employees at the top of their wage scales on or before April 26, 1998 and eligible for  
Supplemental Pension (Severance) Fund contributions shall receive a $.05 increase in contributions to the  
Supplemental Pension (Severance Fund) on January 20, 2008.  
The Plan shall at all times be such that contnbutions thereunder by participating Employers are  
deductible as an item of business expense of such Employers for income tax purposes under the provisions  
of the Internal Revenue Service, United States Treasury Department with respect to the deductibility as an  
item of business expense of the Employer's contnbutions thereunder.  
It is agreed that all questions involving severance not specifically set forth herein shall be  
determined by the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust governing the Plan.  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### NO LAYOFF  
All employees on the payroll as of April 27, 1997, with four (4) or more years of service, calculated  
each year from their anniversary date of employment, shall not be laid off or reduced from full time to part  
  
24  
time for the duration of the Agreement provided that:  
A. The employee ts qualified and continuously available to perform work consistent with the  
provisions of Article VI - Seniority.  
B. This provision will not be valid in unusual situations beyond the employer’s control, such as fire,  
flood or a catastrophe affecting several of the employer’s facilities. Store closings for business reasons  
shall not be construed as a catastrophe.  
C. This provision shall not apply to any employee hired after April 27, 1997.  
D. This provision shall not apply in case of a strike against the Employer in the area covered by Article  
XXVI of this Agreement. In case of a strike by one (1) or more U.F.C.W. Local Unions in this jurisdiction,  
this provision will not apply for the duration of the strike.  
E. If the number of stores covered by this agreement at the time of its ratification is reduced by any  
means by fifty per cent (50%) or more, this no layoff provision shall have no force or effect.  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### STORE CLOSINGS  
1. Employer shall give Union twenty (20) days advance wntten notice when it intends to close permanently  
or dispose of any store or group of stores, except where a closed store will be replaced.  
2. The parties agree to meet as soon as possible to negotiate the effect of the store(s) closing on employees.  
3. If Employer fails to give notice, all affected employees shall be paid their regularly weekly pay for the  
period between the notice and the twenty (20) days before the closing.  
4. The Union agrees to maintain this information as confidential. It will only be used for purposes of  
negotiations with the Employer and any assistance given to the affected employees.  
### ARTICLE XXVI  
### NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS  
1. The parties agree that there shall be no strikes, stoppages of work, slowdowns, lockouts, or any other  
interferences of whatever nature during the life of this Agreement.  
2. Nothing herein contained, however, shall compel any employee to walk through a picket line set up by  
Philadelphia Teamsters Locals Nos. 500, 169, Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers Local No.6 and  
United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local Nos. 56, 1776, 1358 and 27(1349); provided said  
strike has received written approval of the International Unions affiliated with the Local Unions indicated  
above.  
3. In the event of a threat of, preparation for or the actuality of an unauthorized work stoppage, walkout or  
strike, the Union and all of its officials will take every reasonable action to prevent and to stop such  
proceedings by any of its members.  
7  
  
25  
### ARTICLE XXVII  
### SEPARABILITY  
Shouid any Article, part or paragraph of this Agreement be declared by a Federal or State Court of  
competent and final jurisdiction in the premises to be unlawful, invalid, ineffective or unenforceable, said  
Article, part or paragraph shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any other Article, part or  
paragraph hereof, and the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.  
### ARTICLE  
### DURATION OF AGREEMENT  
This Agreement shall be effective from Apmil 25, 2004, and shall continue in full force and effect through  
Apnil 24, 2009 and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless or until either party serves notice, in  
writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the original or any subsequent period of a desire to  
change, modify, or terminate this Agreement. In the event either party serves notice with respect to changes  
in or modification or termination of the Agreement, it 1s agreed that the parties shall begin negotiations  
promptly. Pending the outcome of such negotiations, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect  
beyond the expiration date, subject however, to the nght of either party to terminate the entire Agreement  
upon at least seven (7) days prior wnitten noiice to the other party, which notice may not be given until after  
the expiration of the Agreement.  
»  
SIGNED THIS a3 thday of Judy , 2004.  
### FOR: ACME MARKETS, INC. FOR: UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL  
### WORKERS, LOCAL 1360  
   
### EXHIBIT I  
### SIDE LETTER ON NONTRADITIONAL STORES  
The Employer hereby agrees that if it or any of its subsidiaries owns or operates any food store (like  
Plus), non-food department stores (like K-Mart), or convenience stores in the jurisdictional area of the  
Union, it will recognize the Union as collective bargaining agent for all employees in said store, provided,  
however, that the employees to be included in the unit and the terms and conditions of employment to be  
applied to such employees shall be only such as may be expressly agreed upon between the Employer and  
the Union. It is agreed that such agreement shall be based upon the competitive wages and benefits being  
paid for comparable stores in the jurisdictional area of the Union.  
It is understood that 1f the parties are unable to reach agreement on any matters as to which  
agreement is required by this letter, the Union may strike or picket only the specific food convenience store  
involved, but may not engage in any strike or picketing of or engage in any interference whatsoever with  
any Employer or any of its subsidiaries.  
The terms of this letter constitute a separate and distinct side agreement between the parties and  
shall not in any way be subject to arbitration.  
This letter shall not apply to any food store (like Plus), non-food department stores (like K~Mart) or  
convenience stores whose employees are represented by other Unions at the time such specified operations  
is acquired.  
aT  
### EXHIBIT II  
In accordance with our recent negotiations satisfactorily concluded with a Collective Bargaining  
Agreement between Acme Markets, Inc. and United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local  
No. 1360 certain understandings were reached as follows:  
1. Except as otherwise provided for in Article 2, if a Shop Steward or Union Representative finds a  
salesman stocking or pricing merchandise or performing any other clerks' work, the Local Union  
will immediately send a letter to the Employer setting forth the particular specified incident. The  
Employer, at its option, may request a meeting with a Union Representative on the alleged violation.  
If this alleged violation is substantiated by the facts, then the Employer will acknowledge the  
Union's letter as a formal warning.  
Should a Shop Steward or Union Representative find a salesman stocking or pricing  
merchandise or performing any other clerks work within six (6) months from the date of warning  
letter citing the original violation, then the Local Union will seek compensation time to be pard to  
members of the bargaining union.  
2. If the Company opens its stores for business on Thanksgiving Day or Easter Sunday the Union  
will be given thirty (30) days advance notice in order to discuss the effect of such opening on  
employees. However, in the event that the opening is due to a major competitor being open, then  
the Company will give the Union as much notice as possible.  
3. Effective April 25, 1999, a minimum of twenty-seven percent (27%) full time  
employment shall be maintained. Effective April 25, 2000, a minimum of twenty-six percent (26%)  
full time employment shall be maintained. Effective April 25, 2001, a mintmum of twenty-five  
percent (25%) full time employment shall be maintained. Bagger positions shall not be included in  
the formula used to calculate the minimum. No employee who is full time as of April 24, 1999  
shal be reduced.  
4. If it becomes necessary to increase the starting rate in any store then current employees will be  
offered the opportunity to transfer to that store.  
5. Special Addendum, as approved by the Union and the Company may be added to the Agreement  
for the purposes of experimenting with new concepts, approaches and to address the need to  
increase starting rates in some stores.  
28  
### EXHIBIT Iii  
Any current and future stores in the geographical jurisdiction of Local No. 1360 shall encompass the  
following in the state of Pennsylvania: the southeast portion of Bucks County, within the following  
boundary: irom New Hope on the Delaware River southwest to Buckingham on U.S. 202. From  
Buckingham south on Highway 413 through Newton to Penndel. From Penndel south on a secondary road  
through Hulmesville to Croydon. East on Bnstol Pike to Bristol then south on Highway 413 to the  
Delaware River. From Buckingham south, the boundary ts in 1360's jurisdiction  
In the State of New Jersey: the Counties of Salem, Mercer, Burlington, Gloucester and Camden. That  
portion of Monmouth and Ocean Counties that lies south and west of the boundary of: Highway 33 to  
Freehold, then along Highway 9 to Toms River, then a straight line south to and including  
Beachwood and Seaside Park. That portion of Middlesex County which 1s south of Highway 33: the  
northwest portion of Cumberland County southeast to but not including towns of Northeast Vineland,  
Vineland, Southeast Vineland and Cedarville. List below are all current stores in 1360's jurisdiction.  
7910 Main & Lippincott St. 7917 29 Comell Drive  
7914 4400 South Broad Si. 7923 | 222 Bridgeton Pike  
       
2095 Route 130 North Route 168 & Nicholson Rd.  
     
953 Route #33 Delsea Dr. & Clayton Ave.  
   
     
       
       
64 Princeion-Hightown Rd 7 Detsea Dove & Heston Road  
933  
7952 345 West Trenton Ave. | 7945 1619 Center Square Rd.  
119 Chester Avenue 79-45 | Walnut & Ellis Streets  
963 300 S. Lenola Rd, Suite | 7936 515 Cross Keys Road  
   
  
7973 2200 Mount Holly Rd. 796+ Sharp Run Plaza 175 Route 70  
7977 6800 New Falls Rd. 7970 631 Mantua Avenue  
7979 Route | & Texas Ave. 7974 400 Cuthbert Road  
7932 7992 700 Haddonfield-Berlin Rd.  
| 799} 7995 251 North Broadway  
7902 501 Evesham Road  
For the Company: For  
### OO.  
~~]  
Lyd  
          
29  
### ADDENDUM 1  
### PENSION  
Acme and Loca! 1360 agree to the following pension improvements:  
1, Implementation of a permanent “Rule of 90” benefit, providing an unreduced pension for participants  
achieving any combination of years of service and age which equals or exceed 90, and who retire from active  
Service.  
2 The monthly pension credit for full time service eared before 1985 will be increased from $24.00 to  
530.00 per year of service.  
3. On or after the later of (1) January 1, 1994 or (2) the date a participant earns 30 years of part time  
and/or full time service, the monthly pension credit for full-time service after such date will be increased  
from $40 to $50, and the monthly pension credit for part service earned after such date will be increased  
from$20 to $25.  
4, Adoption of a “cash balance” option for participants who retire after meeting the Rule of 90 cntenia,  
whereby eligible participants may elect to reduce their monthly pension by up to 30% and take the balance in  
the form of a lump sum distribution. The lump sum distribution will be determined using government  
prescribed factors, based on an annuity commencing at the later of age 65 or the participant’s current age.  
    
5. A permanent five percent (5%) increase for all retires whose award date 1s pnor to 1990.  
### FOR UFCW LOCAL 1360 FOR ACME  
### BY: BY:  
### DATE: DATE: St  
30  
### LETTER OF AGREEMENT  
This will confirm the agreement between UFCW Local 1360 and Acme Markets, Inc., that on account  
of Acme agreeing as part of the May 10, 1999 Memorandum of Agreement between the parties to provide  
additional wages and benefits to employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the  
parties, Acme’s obligation to make pension contributions pursuant to Article XXIII of the Collective  
Bargaining Agreement between the parties will be suspended for twelve (12) months beginning June 1, 1999,  
or as soon thereafter as is practicable.  
This will further confirm that the parties agree that upon ratification of the new Collective Bargaining  
Agreement between the parties, the parties representatives will be instructed to develop an agreement setting  
forth the details of the suspension based on the understandings of the parties in negotiations of the new  
Collective Bargaining Agreement, and on the conclusion of the actuary of the Tri-State Pension Fund that  
such a suspension will not adversely affect the actuarial soundness of the Fund or its ability to provide  
existing benefits.  
At such time as the funding period of the Tri-State Pension Fund returns to seven (7) years for a  
period of twelve (12) months based on the current actuarial assumptions of the Fund, the Trustees of the  
Employer will be directed to consider with the Union Trusteed increases in the benefits provided by the Fund  
to eligible employees. The cost of such benefit increases shall not increase the funding period of the Fund to  
more than thirteen (13) years.  
Acme Markets, Inc. & UFCW Local 1360  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
Acme Markets & UFCW Local 1360 agree to the following:  
l. Associates shall be permitted to “bump” the schedules of less senior associates in their  
classification to maximize hours for purposes of maintaining eligibility for benefits, provided that the  
associate’s availability is not unreasonably limited.  
2. UFCW Local 1360 agrees to furnish Acme Markets with any and all side letters and side  
agreements in its possession.  
For Acme Markets, Inc. For the UFCW Local 1360  
          
alleri, Vice President Sam Ferraino, Secretary-Treasurer  
Dated: Dated: ‘ZL (23)  
32  
   
Acme Markets, Inc. & UFCW Local 1360  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
The Company and the Union agree to meet should a problem arise regarding the interpretation of Article I  
Recognition and Jurisdiction and definition of DSD.  
For Acme Markets, Inc. For the UFCW Local 1360  
    
     
Sam Ferraino, Secretary-Tred&surer  
Dated: 20 B/OY  
   
33  
 