   
Te ee pS ae ee  
### GREE MENT: MATHS:  
aur gil Te a Sc  
“3  
ik Dl te tr  
   
Pott  
CITED tare work! ;  
eo bk eee ee ae caw  
   
### ARTICLE |  
### ARTICLE 2  
### ARTICLE 3  
### ARTICLE 4  
### ARTICLE 5  
### ARTICLE 6  
### ARTICLE 7  
### ARTICLE 8  
### ARTICLE 9  
### ARTICLE 10  
### ARTICLE 1]  
### ARTICLE 12  
### ARTICLE 13  
### ARTICLE 14  
### ARTICLE 15  
### ARTICLE 16  
### ARTICLE 17  
### ARTICLE 18  
### ARTICLE 19  
### ARTICLE 20  
### ARTICLE 21  
### ARTICLE 22  
### ARTICLE 23  
### ARTICLE 24  
### ARTICLE 25  
### ARTICLE 26  
### ARTICLE 27  
### ARTICLE 28  
### ARTICLE 29  
### ARTICLE 30  
### ARTICLE 31  
### ARTICLE 32  
### ARTICLE 33  
### ARTICLE 34  
### ARTICLE 35  
### ARTICLE 36  
### ARTICLE 37  
### ARTICLE 38  
### ARTICLE 39’  
### SCHEDULE’A"  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### UNION-RECOGNITION I  
UNION SHOP ...... 00... eee 1  
aia ca ys te oa oe oe oes eres oa ew eo we l  
### MANAGEMENT CLAUSE 2  
### TRIAL PERIOD eens 2  
### DEFINITION OF STATUS  
TRANSFERS «oi xs os xs ee cows once ome ox ene oo 3  
SENIORITY cee cece 3  
### VACATIONS eee 4  
HOLIDAYS: cscs ie cece oa pees ce eee oe ee oe wee 5  
### DEATH IN FAMILY 9  
### SICK LEAVE cc 9  
### INJURY ON THE JOB 11  
SUR CITY xo scan su ween wee OOS ll  
### MILITARY SERVICE 12  
### LEAVE OF ABSENCE 12  
LAUNDRY AND EQUIPMENT ............... 13  
### WELFARE PLAN ee 13  
### PENSION PLAN 14  
### LEGAL SERVICES PLAN 14  
### PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL FUNDS .. .15  
WAGES: nes 16  
WORK WEEK AND HOURS ................. 16  
### OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAY ...........- 17  
### WORK SCHEDULE 19  
DISCHARGE. 5 cigs te tees ees ewes 19  
### GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE & ARBITRATION , .20  
NO STRIKES NO LOCKOUTS ..............- 20  
### SHOP STEWARDS 20  
### ACCESS TO STORES & UNION STORE CARD .2!  
MINORS cece eee eee 21  
### LIE DETECTOR TESTS 21  
### INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE 21  
### RECLASSIFICATION 21  
TECHNOLOGY .. eee 22  
INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENTS ................ 22  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE 22  
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS ............... 22  
### TERM OF AGREEMENT 22  
### CAS A CS OO 23  
AGREEMENT made as of the 25th day of June, 2006, by and between  
U.F.C.W., LOCAL 1500, chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND  
### COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, with offices at  
221-10 Jamaica Avenue. Queens Village, New York 11428, hereinafter  
referred to as the "Union", and PATHMARK STORES, INC., and any new  
or acquired corporation operating retail food stores, having its principal  
place of business at 200 Milik Street, Carteret. New Jersey, 07008,  
hereinafter referred to as the "Employer".  
### ARTICLE 1 - UNION-RECOGNITION  
The Employer does hereby recognize the Union as the sole and  
exclusive agent for all employees except supervisors. store  
managers, assistant store managers. security guards, stock takers, meat and  
delicatessen departments, and bakery department employees in all stores or  
other establishments that are now owned, conducted, maintained or  
operated by it, and in any new store, stores, or other establishments that it  
may acquire, conduct, maintain or operate at any time during the life of this  
Agreement which are in the City of New York. Nassau. Suffolk,  
Westchester. Putnam and Dutchess Counties in New York.  
### ARTICLE 2 - UNION SHOP  
A. It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the  
Employer covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in  
good standing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall remain members  
in good standing and those who are not members on the effective date of this  
Agreement shall. as a condition of their continued employment by the  
Employer, become members of the Union on the thirty first (31st) day  
following the beginning of their employment or the execution date of this  
Agreement, whichever is the later, and they shall thereafter maintain their  
membership in the Unton in good standing during the term of this  
Agreement.  
B. Any employee who is expelled from membership in this union  
because of non payment of dues or initiation fees to the union which would  
subject the employee to discharge under the provisions of the Labor  
Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended. shall be subject to  
dismissal from employment, within seven (7) days after receipt by the  
Employer from the Union. of written notice setting forth such non payment  
of dues or initiation fees.  
A. The Union shall provide the Employer with a duly executed  
authorization for check off of dues and initiation fees signed by each  
employee who shall be subject thereto. and such authorization shall conform  
with the requirements of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 and  
the amendments thereto.  
B. The Employer agrees to deduct union dues and initiation fees from  
the wages of the employees in the bargaining unit who provide the Employer  
with such written authorization.  
C. Such deductions will be made weekly by the Employer from the  
wages of the employees in advance of the month due and will be  
transmitted to the Union by the tenth (10th) day of the following month. If  
the Employer fails to remit the checked off dues and initiation fees as  
provided in this paragraph by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month due, the  
Union shal] have the right to turn the matter over to an attorney to institute  
any proceedings deemed appropriate for collection provided that the Union  
shall, prior to the said fifteenth (15th) day. orally notify the Employer of the  
delinquency. In the event the delinquency is turned over to an attorney for  
collection, the Employer agrees to be responsible for all reasonable  
collection expenses, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys’ fees.  
D. The Employer agrees to remit to the Union's Active Ballot Club, on  
an annual basis, an agreed upon amount to be deducted from the wages of  
employees who are Union members and who have signed deduction  
authorization cards.  
The Employer agrees that when and if it has the capability to make  
weekly Active Ballot Club deduction, it will remit to UPCW Local 1500  
monthly an agreed upon amount deducted from the wages of employees  
who are union members and who have signed deduction authorization cards.  
E. The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against  
any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise  
out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Employer in reliance  
upon such authorization and a list furnished to the Employer by the Union  
setting forth the amount of dues and initiation fees owing from each  
employee or for the purpose of complying with the provisions of any check  
off authorization.  
### ARTICLE 4_- MANAGEMENT CLAUSE  
Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Employer has the exclusive  
right and authority to establish policies and manage stores covered by this  
Agreement and direct the working forces employed therein, including, but  
not limited to, the rights of hiring, suspending, discharging for proper cause,  
promoting, transferring and releasing employees from duties because of lack  
of work.  
### ARTICLE 5 - TRIAL PERIOD  
A. The Employer shall have thirty (30) days from the day of  
employment within which to determine whether or not newly hired  
employees shall be retained, and sixty (60) days in the case of a new store  
opening or remodeling. During the trial period, the Employer shall have the  
right to try the employee at different types of work, transfer the employee,  
require the employee to attend training periods and, in addition, to require  
the employee to take such tests as the Employer might propose, all of which  
is intended to give the employee the fullest opportunity to qualify for  
continued employment. Former employees of the Employer who have not  
retained seniority shall be considered as newly hired employees. The said  
trial period is intended to provide the maximum number of workdays and if  
the employee does not work continuously during that period, the trial  
period shall be extended to the number of working days which the  
employee has missed during the said trial period.  
B. The employer shall have the right to terminate any newly hired  
employee during this period without recourse by the employee and/or the  
Union, and the Employer shall not be required to allege the cause for the  
said termination.  
C. The Employer shall have the right to employ Department Managers  
for a period of ninety (90) days in such capacity. During the said ninety (90)  
day period, the Employer shall have the right to transfer, require attendance  
at training periods and shall have the right to require the Department  
Manager to take such tests as the Employer shall propose, all of which is  
intended to provide the Department Manager with the fullest opportunity to  
qualify in this capacity. At any time during said trial period, the Employer  
shall have the right to terminate the trial period, and the Department  
Manager shall revert to his or her former status. If the said employee is  
newly hired in such capacity, the Employer shall have the right to terminate  
2  
the employment at any time during the trial period without recourse by the  
employee or Union, and the Employer shall not be required to allege the  
cause for the said termination. The said ninety (90) day period is intended to  
provide the maximum number of workdays. and if the employee does not  
work continuously during that period, the trial period shall be extended by  
the number of working days which the employee has missed during the said  
ninety (90) day period.  
### ARTICLE 6 - DEFINITION OF STATUS  
A. All employees regularly working thirty (30) or more hours per week  
shail be considered full time employees.  
B. All employees regularly working less than thirty (30) hours per  
week shall be considered part time employees.  
### ARTICLE 7 - TRANSFERS  
A. If an involuntary transfer of a full time employee from one store to  
another results in additional traveling expense. eight ($.08) cents per mile for  
additional mileage and additional tolls incurred shall be paid. Effective  
September 1 , 2006 travel reimbursement shall increase to twelve ($0.12) cents  
per mile. Effective September |. 2008 travel reimbursement shall increase to  
fifteen ($0.15) cents per mile.  
B. A transfer of personnel need not be according to seniority unless  
consideration of hardship is involved.  
C. There shall be no travel pay if a transfer is voluntary.  
D. The Employer shail give the Union one (1) week's written notice  
prior to the permanent transfer of a full time employee and three (3) days’  
notice prior to the permanent transfer of a part time employee. In the case of  
an emergency. the Union shall be notified as soon as possible.  
### ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY  
A. Seniority rights of employees in layoffs and recalls shall prevail on  
a bargaining unit departmental basis. Layoffs shall be made in the inverse  
order of seniority, and recall shat] be made in the order of seniority for a  
period of six (6) months only, and if employees are not recalled during the  
said six (6} month period, they shall thereafter be considered new  
employees if rehired. Recalled employees shall have one (1) week after  
notice of recall within which to report for work provided that they shall  
notify the Employer within forty eight (48) hours after such notice that they  
will return, and if they fail to return or to give such notice, they shall lose  
their seniority.  
B. Employees who are recalled from a layoff shall be reemployed at  
the same point in the progression rate range at which they were laid off, if  
at the time of their layoff they were in the progression rate range. otherwise,  
at the same salary they had been receiving prior to their layoff. Employees  
who have lost seniority, if rehired, shall be rehired as new employees at the  
minimum of the progression rate range.  
C. In the event the Employer closes a store, or stores. two (2) weeks'  
written notice shall be given to the union, if possible, along with a seniority  
list. The layoff or termination of employees covered by this Agreement  
occasioned thereby shall be accomplished on the basis of bargaining unit  
seniority in employment.  
D. In no event shall the closing of any store, or stores, owned and  
3  
operated by the Employer, nor any transfer by the Employer, or any  
employee from one store to another result in any loss of seniority rights, except  
in the case of termination of employment as provided for in this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 9 - VACATIONS  
A. (1) Regular full time employees who have completed twelve (12)  
consecutive months of full time employment shal] receive two (2) weeks,  
vacation with pay, one (1) week of which shall be earned and may be taken  
after six (6) months.  
(2} Regular full time employees hired or converted from part time to  
full time on or after June 19, 1994 shall receive one (1) week's vacation with  
pay after completing twelve (12) consecutive months of full time  
employment and two (2) weeks' vacation with pay after completing twenty  
four (24) months of full time employment.  
B. Regular full time employees who have completed seven (7)  
consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer shall receive  
three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay.  
C. Regular full time employees who have completed ten (10)  
consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer shall receive  
four (4) weeks' vacation with pay.  
D. Regular full time employees who have completed twenty five (25)  
consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer shall receive  
five (5) weeks, vacation with pay.  
E. When an employee is entitled to more than two (2) weeks’ vacation,  
the Employer reserves the right to grant or assign such additional week or  
weeks at a time or times different from the first two (2) weeks.  
F. Full time employees laid off by the Employer before the completion  
of their six (6) month qualifying period shall receive pro rata vacation for  
each month of continuous service except those employees who have been  
discharged for good cause or have voluntarily left their employment.  
G. Full time employees resigning in good standing who have given  
proper notice and who have earned vacation weeks which have not been  
taken will be paid earned vacation where six month intervals have passed  
when entitled to up to two (2) weeks' vacation, four month intervals have  
passed when entitled to up to three (3) weeks' vacation, and three month  
intervals have passed when entitled to up to four (4) weeks' vacation by  
virtue of length of service. Payment will be made only for those full weeks  
that have thus been earned.  
H. Regular part time employees who have been continuously  
employed by the Employer for twelve (12) consecutive months or more and  
who have worked eight hundred (800) hours or more during the year shall  
be entitled to vacation as follows:  
Length of Hired Before Hired on or Hired After  
Service G19/94 After 6/19/94 9/2406  
One (1) year: 25 Hours 20 Hours 20 Hours  
Two (2) years: 50 Hours* 40 Hours 20 Hours  
Thwee (3) years: 50 Hours* 40 Hours 40 Hours  
Seven (7) years: 75 Hours 75 Hours 75 Hours  
Ten (10) years: 100 Hours 100 Hours 100 Hours  
Twenty-five (25) years: 125 Hours 125 Hours 125 Hours  
I. Part time employees who do not meet the 800-hour requirement  
during the year shall receive vacation based upon their total hours worked  
during the year divided by 52. For the purpose of computing "hours  
worked". all hours for which employees have been paid, including but not  
limited to holidays, vacations, sick and funeral leave shall be included  
in making such computation.  
J. A part time employee who has completed at least six (6) months'  
continuous service and who is promoted permanently to a regular full time  
position shall receive, beginning in the year subsequent to the promotion,  
one half (1/2) credit for al] time served in the part time position for the  
purpose of calculating the employee's full time vacation entitlement. At the  
time of the promotion, the employee shall be paid for all part time vacation  
entitlements on a pro rata basis.  
K. Job classification premiums only excluding shift premiums, are to  
be included in vacation pay.  
L. The Employer agrees to issue separate checks for vacation pay.  
M. Vacation benefits shall not be payable to employees discharged for  
good cause.  
N. The Employer reserves the exclusive right to establish vacation  
assignments. Such assignments, however, will be made with due  
consideration for the seniority of the employee.  
0. Employees who have completed at least six (6) months' continuous  
service and who are permanently laid off shall receive a vacation benefit on  
4 pro rata basis.  
### ARTICLE 10 - HOLIDAYS  
A. 1. All full time employees hired on or before June 15, 1991 covered  
by this Agreement, and who qualify. shal] receive the following legal  
holidays with pay:  
New Year's Day Labor Day  
President's Day Presidential Election Day  
Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day  
Independence Day Christmas Day  
2. All full time employees hired on or after June 16, 1991, covered by  
this Agreement and who qualify, shall receive the following legal holidays  
with pay:  
New Year's Day Labor Day  
Memorial Day Presidential] Election Day  
Independence Day Thanksgiving Day  
Christmas Day  
In addition, such employees who have completed thirty (30) days’  
employment prior to the date on which President's Day occurs, shall receive  
a personal holiday in lieu thereof to be taken during the contract year.  
3. Alt full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 who have three  
(3) months' continuous full time employment, covered by this Agreement and  
who qualify shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:  
New Year's Day Presidential Election Day  
Memorial Day (if registered voter)  
Independence Day Thanksgiving Day  
Labor Day Christmas Day  
B. Should a regular full time employee's regularly scheduled day off  
fall on any of the above named holidays, said employee shall be granted  
another day off during the same week.  
C. On Christmas Eve, one half (1/2) of the full time crew shall be  
excused one (1) hour before the end of the shift and the other half of the full  
time crew shall be excused one (1) hour before the end of the shift on New  
Year's Eve. This applies to those full time employees working on the  
aforementioned days. If the Employer decides to close one (1) hour earlier  
on any of the above days, that shall be the hour off.  
D. All regular full time employees, excluding full time employees  
hired or converted to full time on or after June 19, 1994, eligible for one (1)  
week's vacation shall in lieu of previous existing half holidays, be granted  
one (1) additional day of vacation with pay which may be granted at the time  
of their vacation or at a time different from their vacation, or the employee  
may be paid one (1) additional day's pay in lieu thereof, at the discretion of  
the Employer. All regular full-time employees, excluding full time  
employees hired or converted to full time on or after June 19, 1994, eligible  
for two (2) weeks, vacation or more shall be granted two (2) additional days  
of vacation with pay, in lieu of previous existing half holidays, which may  
be granted at the time of their vacation or at a time different from their  
vacation, or be paid two (2) additional day's pay in lieu thereof, at the  
discretion of the Employer.  
E. Full time employees, excluding full time employees hired or  
converted to full time on or after June 19, 1994, who have been in the  
employ of the Employer for six (6) consecutive months as regular full time  
employees shall be entitled to two (2) personal holidays during a contract  
year; the first to be taken during the first six (6) months of the contract year  
and the second during the second six (6) months of the contract year. Full  
time employees hired or converted to full time on or after June 19, 1994,  
who have been in the employ of the Employer for twelve (12) consecutive  
months as a regular full time employee shall be entitled to one (1) personal  
holiday during a contract year; after twenty four (24) consecutive months as  
a regular full time employee shall be entitled to a maximum of two (2)  
personal holidays in a contract year and after thirty six (36) consecutive  
months as a regular full time employee shall be entitled to a maximum of  
five (5) personal holidays in a contract year. Part time employees  
reclassified to full time after June 19, 1994 who has President's Day or a per-  
sonal holiday in lieu of President's Day shall be entitled to a maximum of  
four (4) personal holidays after thirty six (36) months of full-time service. In  
assigning personal holidays, the Employer shall take into consideration the  
convenience of the employee. Only regularly scheduled work days of the  
employee may be selected as personal holidays and only one (1) employee  
from a store shall be assigned a personal holiday on any one (1) day.  
F. Full time employees, hired before June 19, 1994, who have been in  
the employ of the Employer for six (6) consecutive months and full time  
employees hired or converted to full time on or after June 19, 1994 who  
have been in the employ of the Employer for twelve (12) consecutive  
months as regular full time employees shall be entitled to his or her birthday  
as an additional personal holiday. The employee's birthday shall be assigned  
on the Monday following the week in which the birthday occurred, except  
for holiday weeks, in which case the birthday shall be assigned on the  
following Monday. Only one (1) employee from a store shall be assigned a  
birthday in any one (1) week.  
G. Full time employees hired before June 19, 1994, who have been in  
the employ of the Employer for six (6) consecutive months and full time  
employees hired or converted to full time on or after June 19, 1994 who  
have been in the employ of the Employer for twenty four (24) consecutive  
6  
months as regular full time employees shall be entitled to his or her anniversary  
date of employment as an additional personal holiday. to be assigned in the  
same manner as a birthday.  
H. When a holiday occurs during a full time employee's vacation  
period, the employee's vacation shall be extended one (1) day. or at the  
option of the Employer, the employee shall receive eight (8) hours’ straight  
time pay in lieu of said holiday.  
I. Full time employees who work on any of the above named holidays  
as described in A.1, A.2 or A.3 shall receive. in addition to the holiday pay  
to which they are entitled, time and one half {1 1/2) their regular hourly rate  
for all hours worked on said holidays.  
J. Full time employees who work on a holiday will be scheduled for a  
minimum eight (8) hours work, provided the store is open for such time and  
the employee is available. Full-time employees shall be given a reasonable  
opportunity to work on holidays on a rotating basis by seniority when the  
store is open for business. The Employer may schedule full time employees  
by inverse order of seniority if necessary to staff a department. When stores  
are open on holidays on which they are presently closed, departments are to  
be staffed by volunteers first before inverse order of seniority is invoked.  
K. When stores are closed on holidays. the entire nightcrew shall be  
given the option of working on the holiday at straight time as part of the  
work week. In that event, the night crew shall not be scheduled to work on  
the night of the holiday.  
L. 1. All part time employees hired on or before June 15, 1991.  
covered by this Agreement, who have completed three (3) or more months  
of continuous employment with the Employer shall receive four (4) hours  
holiday pay based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of  
the foltowing legal holidays:  
New Year’s Day Labor Day  
President's Day Presidential Election Day  
Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day  
Independence Day Christmas Day  
2. All part time employees hired on or after June 16, 1991, covered by  
this Agreement, who have completed three (3) or more months of continuous  
employment with the Employer shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay  
based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of the  
following legal holidays:  
New Year's Day Labor Day  
Memorial Day Presidential Election Day  
Independence Day Thanksgiving Day  
Christmas Day  
In addition, such employees who have completed three (3) months'  
employment prior to the date on which President's Day occurs. shall receive  
a personal holiday in lieu thereof to be taken during the contract year.  
3. All part time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994, covered by  
this Agreement, who have completed four (4) or more months of continuous  
employment with the Employer shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay  
based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of the  
following legal holidays:  
New Year's Day Presidential Election Day  
Memorial Day (if a registered voter)  
Independence Day Thanksgiving Day  
Labor Day Christmas Day  
In addition, such employees who have completed twelve (12) months  
employment shall receive a personal holiday to be taken during the contract  
year.  
M. Part time employees hired before June 19, 1994, who have been in  
the employ of the Employer for six (6) consecutive months and part time  
employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 who have been in the employ of  
the Employer for twenty four (24) consecutive months as regular part time  
employees shall be entitled to his or her birthday as an additional personal  
holiday, and shall receive four (4) hours, holiday pay based on their regular  
straight time hourly wage rate for said holiday. The employee's birthday  
shall be assigned on the Monday following the week in which the birthday  
occurred, except for holiday weeks, in which case the birthday shall be  
assigned on the following Monday. Only one (1) employee from a store shall  
be assigned a birthday in any one (1) week.  
N. Part time employees hired before June 19, 1994, who have been in  
the employ of the Employer for six (6) consecutive months and part time  
employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 who have been in the employ of  
the Employer for thirty six (36) consecutive months as regular part time  
employees shall be entitled to his or her anniversary date of employment as  
an additional personal holiday, and shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay  
based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for said holiday, to be  
assigned in the same manner as a birthday.  
0. Part time employees who work on any of the above named holidays  
as described in L.1, L.2 or L.3 shall receive, in addition to the holiday pay  
to which they are entitled, time and one half (1 1/2) their regular hourly rate  
for all hours worked on said holidays.  
P. Part time employees who are promoted to full time positions shall  
be entitled to receive full time holidays. Part time employees who have  
completed six (6) months service and who are promoted to full time  
positions shall be entitled to receive full time personal, anniversary and  
birthday holidays. Any part time employee hired on or after June 19, 1994  
who converts to full time has to complete the year length of service before  
they qualify for their respective personal holidays for the first (1st) year,  
then they would quality for the additional personal holidays as described in  
Sections E., F. and G. above.  
Q. In order to qualify for holiday pay, all eligible employees shall work  
their regularly scheduled day before and their regularly scheduled day  
following the holiday and shall also work all their scheduled hours during  
the week in which the holiday occurs. An employee who has been absent  
from work will qualify for holiday pay if the absence is excused, which  
excuse shall not be unreasonably denied.  
R. All employees who qualify for legal holidays shall have the option  
of substituting Martin Luther King Day for one (1) of their entitled Holidays  
within this agreement. Employees electing this option shall be required to  
complete and submit, to their General Store Manager, a form acknowledg-  
ing their alternate selection. This form shall be available beginning  
Thanksgiving of the preceding year and shall be required to be returned by  
December 15th.  
S. Personal holidays for all employees are to be assigned and taken or  
shall be paid for at the end of each contract year provided that the  
employee is in the employ of the Employer at such time.  
### ARTICLE 11_- DEATH IN FAMILY  
A. Regular full time employees after thirty (30) days of employment  
shall be entitled to three (3) days paid leave for all regularly scheduled  
workdays lost from the day of death in case of death in the immediate  
family. The "immediate family" is defined as the employee's parent, child,  
brother. sister, spouse or spouse's parent. Regular fuil time employec shall  
be entitled to one (1) day paid leave for a regularly scheduled work day lost  
to attend the funeral or memorial service of the employee's grandparent.  
grandchild, brother in law, sister inlaw, nephew or niece.  
B. Past time employees after thirty (30) days of employment shall be  
entitled to paid leave for the actual time lost, as set forth on the employee's  
weekly work schedule. in case of death in the immediate family as  
provided for regular full time employees on a pro rata basis. Regular part  
time employees shall be entitled to one (1) day paid leave for a reguiarly  
scheduled work day lost to attend the funeral or memorial service of the  
employee's grandparent or grandchild.  
### ARTICLE 12 - SICK LEAVE  
A. 1. All regular full time employees hired on or before June 15, 199]  
shall after three (3) consecutive months of full-time employment with the  
Employer be eligible to reccive, in a sick leave year, a maximum of ten (10)  
days sick leave with pay at their regular straight time rate of pay for eight  
(8) hours for days they are absent from work due to illness.  
2. All regular full time employees hired on or after June 16, 1991 shall  
after three (3) consecutive months of full-time employment with the  
Employer be eligible to receive in their first (1st) sick leave year one {1) day  
of sick leave with pay at their regular straight time rate of pay for cight (8)  
hours for each full month of employment to a maximum of ten (10) days.  
Such employees shall be eligible to receive ten (10) days sick leave in sub-  
sequent sick Icave years.  
3. All regular full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 shall  
be entitled to sick leave with pay at their regular straight time rate of pay for  
eight (8) hours for days they are absent from work due to illness as follows:  
After three (3) consecutive maximum four (4) days  
months of full time in a calendar year  
employment eamed one (1) day per month  
After twelve (12) consecutive maximum six (6) days  
months of full time in a calendar year  
employment  
After twenty four (24) maximum eight (8) days  
consecutive months of in a calendar year  
full time employment  
After thirty six (36) months maximum ten (10) days  
of full time employment in a calendar year  
B. Employees who are in the employ of the Employer in a regular full  
time capacity on the last day of each sick leave year, and who have been  
employed in a regular full time capacity for three (3) consecutive months or  
more during the said year, shall be paid on a pro rata basis for all sick leave  
for which they were eligible but which they did not use. Such unused sick  
leave must be paid within thirty (30) days after the close of the calendar  
year.  
C. 1. Regular part time employees with one (1) year of continuous  
service shall receive up to three (3) scheduled days paid sick leave at four  
(4) hours per day, four (4) days after two (2) years’ service and five (5) days  
after three (3) years service starting with the first scheduled day of illness.  
2. Regular part time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 shall be  
entitled to sick leave at four (4) hours per day with pay starting with the first  
scheduled day of illness as follows:  
After twelve (12) months maximum three (3) days  
of continuous service in a calendar year earned  
four (4) hours for each  
four (4) months  
After twenty four (24) months maximum four (4) days in a  
of continuous service calendar year earned  
four (4) hours for each  
three (3) months  
After thirty six (36) months maximum five (5) days  
of continuous service in a calendar year  
3. Regular part-time employees hired on or after June 25, 2006 shall  
be entitled to sick leave at four (4) hours per day with pay starting with the  
first scheduled day of illness as follows:  
After twelve (12) months maximum three (3) days  
of continuous service in a calendar year earned  
four (4) hours for  
each four (4) months  
After twenty-four (24) months maximum three (3) days  
of continuous service in a calendar year earned  
four (4) hours for each four  
(4) months  
After thirty-six (36) months maximum four (4) days in a  
of continuous service calendar year  
After forty-eight (48) months maximum five (5) days  
of continuous service in a calendar year  
D. Regular part time employees who have been employed for a period  
of two (2) years shall be paid on a pro rata basis for all sick leave for which  
they were eligible but which they did not use. Such unused sick leave must  
be paid within thirty (30) days after the close of the calendar year as outlined  
in C.1. above. Part time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 who have  
been employed for a period of three (3) years shall be paid for all sick leave  
for which they were eligible, but which they did not use within thirty (30)  
days after the close of the calendar year as outlined in C.2. above.  
10  
E. 1. A part time employee hired on or before June 15, 1991, who has  
completed three (3) months service and who is promoted to a full time  
position shall be eligible for full time sick leave benefits immediately upon  
the promotion. Such employee shall receive no payment for unused sick  
leave earned as a part time employee.  
2. A part time employee hired on or after June 16, 1991, who is  
promoted to a full time position shall be eligible for ful] time sick leave  
benefits as described in A.2 above.  
3. A part time employee hired on or after June 19, 1994 who is  
promoted to a full time position shall be eligible for full time sick leave  
benefits as described in A. 3. above.  
F. In order to be eligible for sick leave all employees must notify the  
Employer of their inability to report to work no later than two (2) hours prior  
to their scheduled starting time on the first (1st) day of absence, if able. and  
as often as reasonably possible thereafter if such illness extends beyond one  
(1) day.  
G. Any employee covered by this Agreement who falsifies sick leave,  
or who knowingly attempts to collect sick leave under false pretenses. shall  
be subject to immediate discharge.  
H. An employee who is permanently laid off shall be paid on a pro rata  
basis for fifty (50%) percent of all sick leave for which the employee is  
eligible but did not use.  
I. An employee who retires from the Employer with a pension from the  
Pension Fund shall be paid on a pro rata basis for all sick leave for which  
the employee is eligible but did not use.  
### ARTICLE 13 - INJURY ON THE JOB  
An employee who is injured on the job and is directed by a medical doctor  
not to continue work shall be paid said employee's usual day's wages for that  
day at straight time for the day on which the injury occurred and which time  
shall not be considered sick leave.  
### ARTICLE 14 - JURY DUTY  
A. Employees who have completed ninety (90) days of continuous  
service, called for jury duty in a court of law necessitating a loss of the  
employee's straight time scheduled working hours. shall be paid while on  
jury duty. less jury pay, not to exceed ten (10) working days in any contract  
year or thirty (30) working days during the term of the Agreement in the case  
of an employee called for grand jury duty. To be eligible for pay under this  
provision, the employee shall present the jury service notice to the Employer  
at least seven (7) days before the start of the term as a juror and shall  
present to the Employer a Certificate of Service showing dates. time of  
service and jury fees paid. Employees receiving jury duty pay from any  
other employer shall not be eligible to receive pay for jury duty under this  
Agreement.  
B. Any employee called for jury duty who, after having reported for  
such jury duty is excused for the day after 1:00 P.M.. shall not be required  
to report for work on that day.  
C. An employee who has served five (5) days in a week on jury duty  
shal] not be required to work on Saturday.  
### ARTICLE 15 _- MILITARY SERVICE  
A. An employee who is required to leave a position by reason of  
conscription or enlistment in the military service shall, upon application, be  
reinstated to such position in the manner and on such conditions as the  
applicable law provides including, but not restricted to, the benefit of any  
increase in wages and improvements in working conditions, and in no event  
shall such military service be construed to deprive the employee of any  
rights and privileges.  
B. In the event that employees make application for return to work from  
military service, they shall do so in the manner provided by applicable law.  
C. A full time employee who is a member of an organized reserve  
program or in the National Guard shall be eligible for a two (2) weeks’ leave  
of absence, subject to extension in exceptional cases, without pay. Such  
leave may be in addition to the employee's regularly scheduled vacation  
period in order that the employee may participate in the military training  
required by such organization. An employee who wishes to use the regular  
vacation period for military absence shall be paid in accordance with  
regular vacation procedure.  
D. All notices for any military leave of absence must be submitted in  
writing to the Employer.  
### ARTICLE 16 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
A. Any employee with more than one (1) years service, requesting a  
leave of absence for reasons other than the employee's illness or injury, shall  
be given said leave of absence by the Employer at its sole discretion,  
provided, however, that approval of such leave of absence shall not be  
unreasonably withheld.  
B. All requests for leave of absence shall be in writing and must be  
submitted to the Employer at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date of  
the commencement of the requested leave of absence. The employee shall  
be notified in writing, with a copy to the Union, if the requested leave is  
approved or denied. The notice shall specify the time limit placed on an  
approved leave of absence. Advance written request for leave of absence is  
not necessary in case of family emergency. However, subsequent written  
notice and request shall be given as soon as is reasonably possible.  
C. A leave of absence granted by the Employer shall not constitute a  
break in seniority but if the leave of absence exceeds three (3) months in  
duration then service for purposes of progression increases, vacations and all  
other benefits required to be paid under this Agreement shall not be earned  
during said leaves.  
D. The Employer shall make all contributions to all funds required by  
this Agreement for any month in which the employee performs any work for  
which monthly contributions are required before taking the leave and after  
returning, but not for the months when no covered work is performed.  
However, in the case of an employee's illness or injury contributions for the  
Welfare Fund, Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund shall be made for a  
period not to exceed three (3) months while the employee is absent from  
work.  
E. An employee on an approved leave of absence will be automatical-  
ly terminated if:  
1, The employee does not return to work when the leave of absence  
expires unless the Employer has agreed to an extension.  
12  
2. The employee works elsewhere while on leave without express  
permission in writing from the Employer to be so employed.  
F. An employee absent from work due to illness or injury shall retain  
his seniority for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months.  
### ARTICLE 17 _ - LAUNDRY AND EQUIPMENT  
1. The Employer agrees to furnish and maintain for all employees  
covered herein all aprons, uniforms, store coats and gowns and such tools  
and work equipment as may be required by the Employer for the  
performance of an employee's duties.  
Produce aprons wilt be supplicd and laundered by the company at no  
expense to the employee.  
### ARTICLE 18 - WELFARE PLAN  
### A. Full time Employees  
1. The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $469.93 per month to  
the UFCW Loca] 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular full time  
employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of  
service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (st) day of  
the month next following the completion of such period.  
2. Effective October 1, 2006. monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be $566.00 per month.  
3. The Employer shall continue to provide disability coverage for all  
full time employees.  
4. Effective October |, 2007, monthly contributions to provide such benefits  
as may be determined by the Trustees shall be $616.00 per month.  
5. Effective October 1, 2008, monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be $653.00 per month.  
6. Effective October 1, 2009 monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be $723.00 per month.  
B. Part time Employees:  
1. The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $119.53 per month to  
the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular part time  
employee covered by the Agreement who has completed six (6) consecutive  
months of regular part time service with the Employer. Contributions shail  
begin on the first (1st) day of the month following the completion of such  
periods.  
2. Effective October |. 2006, monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shal] be $142.00 per month.  
3. Effective October 1, 2007. monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be $158.00 per month.  
4. Effective October [, 2008, monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustecs shall be $168.00 per month.  
5. Effective October 1, 2009. monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be $185.00 per month.  
if necessary to maintain the present level of benefits, the Trustees may  
13  
increase the $185.00 per month stated contribution by an additional $10.00  
per month  
6. The amount of the monthly contributions to the UFCW Local 1500  
welfare Fund and the method of calculation, whereby a specific monthly  
sum is contributed for each class of employee, is a formula for providing  
gross income to the Fund and bears no relationship to the benefits provided.  
### ARTICLE 19 -- PENSION PLAN  
### A. Full time Employees  
1. The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $204.60 per month to  
the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund on behalf of each regular full time  
employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of  
service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of  
the month next following the completion of such period.  
2. Effective October 1, 2009 monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be $252.15 per month.  
B. Part time Employees  
1. The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $68.19 per month to  
the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund on behalf of each regular part time  
employee covered by the Agreement who has completed six (6) consecutive  
months of regular part time service with the Employer. Contributions shall  
begin on the first (1st) day of the month next following the completion of  
such period.  
2. Effective October 1, 2009 monthly contributions to provide such  
benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be $84.04 per month.  
C. The parties agree that contributions to the Pension Fund shall be  
deductible in full for the Employer's taxable year with respect to which the  
contribution is made. In the event that contributions required by this Article  
are not deductible, the parties agree that said contributions shall be suspended  
and the amount suspended shall be contributed to the Welfare Fund as an  
additional contribution. In the event that contributions required by this  
Article, which have been suspended, shall again become deductible, such  
contributions shal] resume. The determination as to deductibility shal) be  
based upon the annual actuarial valuation of the Fund.  
### ARTICLE 20 - LEGAL SERVICES PLAN  
### A. Full time Employees  
1. The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $2.25 per month to  
the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund on behalf of each regular full  
time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty (30)  
days of service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first  
(1st) day of the month following the completion of such period.  
B. Part time Employees  
1. The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $2.25 per month to  
the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund on behalf of each regular part  
time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed six (6) months  
of service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (Ist) day  
of the month following the completion of such period.  
14  
### ARTICLE 21  
### PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL. FUNDS  
A. There shall be no contributions to the Welfare Fund, Pension Fund  
and Legal Services Fund for those employees working full time for the  
summer period of May 15th to September 15th only. nor shall there be any  
change in part time contributions for part time employees working full time  
for the summer period only. Should such employees continue without  
interruption on a full time basis after the summer. the Employer shall pay as  
though there was no relief.  
B. 1. Contributions to the Welfare Fund. Pension Fund and Legal  
Services Fund shall be remitted by the Employer to the Fund's office on or  
before the twentieth (20th) day of each month. Every employee of record  
who works at least one day in the current month shall be considered to be  
employed for the entire month for the purpose of computing contributions  
for that month.  
2. Upon the failure of the Employer to make payment of any  
contributions within fourteen (14) days of the date due, the Trustees shall be  
entitled at their sole option to take any action permitted by this Agreement,  
by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the Funds or by  
law to collect said contribution, together with interest, liquidated damages  
as established by the Trustees, attorneys' fees and court costs. Such interest  
and liquidated damages shall accrue starting on the day after the due date of  
the contributions (the twentieth day of the current month). and shall  
continue to accrue unti] said contributions, together with any accrued  
interest and liquidated damages. have been paid.  
3. The Employer agrees that if it is delinquent in the payment of  
contributions to the Welfare Fund. to the extent that the Trustees have  
cancelled the payment of benefits to said Employer's covered employees.  
the Employer will be responsible for all hospital, medical. surgical and other  
benefits that would have been paid by the Fund had the Employer's  
delinquency in making its contributions not resulted in the cancellation of  
any rights on the part of the Employer's covered employees to receive any  
such benefits.  
4. The Employer hereby accepts and ratifies the Agreements and  
Declarations of Trust, as amended from time to time, establishing the Funds  
as if they were set forth herein in full, and ratifies the designation of the  
Trustees there under. The Trustees have assumed ail responsibility for the  
administration of the Plans, and the Employer shall have no responsibility,  
except as herein provided.  
5. The Employer shall make available to the Funds. any and all  
pertinent records of employees that the Funds may require to soundly and  
efficiently operate the Funds. The Trustees shall have the right to have the  
Employer's records audited by an accountant of the Funds’ own choosing, at  
the Funds’ expense.  
6. In the event the Employer fails to make contributions or provide  
records as required herein. the Trustces may. despite any other provision of  
this Agreement, submit to arbitration any issue with regard to these  
provisions, before an arbitrator designated in accordance with the labor  
arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator  
shall, in the event a violation exists. make a finding and award, which shall  
direct payment to the Fund, including the costs of the arbitration, fegal fees  
and audit expenses together with interest and liquidated damages as  
established by the Trustees.  
7. Upon the written request of the Employer, the Trustees shall make  
annual financial reports to the Employer, which shall contain information  
telating to the application of the monies received and benefits paid by the  
Funds.  
C. In the case of any employee's illness or injury, contributions to the  
Welfare Fund the Pension Fund, and the Legal Services Fund shall be made  
for a period not to exceed three (3) months of absence from work. In the case  
of an employee who is receiving Worker's Compensation benefits,  
contributions to the Welfare Fund shall also be made for the seventh (7th),  
eighth (8th) and ninth (9th) months of such absence.  
D. The Employer shall make contributions to the Welfare Fund on behalf  
of each employee on family or medical leave under the provisions of the  
Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA), 29 U.S.C. §2601. et seq., for each month  
or partial month the employee is on such leave. The failure of an employee to  
retum to work from such leave, within the meaning of 29 U.S.C. §2614 (c) (2),  
shall create no obligation on the part of the Union or the Welfare Fund to take  
any action to recover or to assist in the recovery of said contributions from  
said employee, nor will such failure to return to work relieve the Employer of  
its obligation to contribute to the Welfare Fund on behalf of said employee  
during the period specified in 29 U.S.C. §2614 (c) (1).  
E. The Employer shall make contributions to the Pension Fund on  
behalf of each employee who qualifies, pursuant to 38 U.S.C. §§4312 and  
4318, for Future Pension Service due to a period of military service. The  
Employer shall also make contributions to the Pension Fund on behalf of  
each former employee who qualifies, pursuant to 38 U.S.C. §§4312 and  
4318, for Future Pension Service due to a period of military service if the  
Employer was the last employer employing the former employee prior to  
such military service. Contributions shall be made at the Employer's  
contribution rate in effect during each month of military service to which  
such Future Pension Service relates. Such contributions shall be due and  
payable within thirty (30) days of reemployment of the employee with the  
Employer or within thirty (30) days of notice that the employee has become  
employed, in employment which meets the requirements of 38 U.S.C.  
§4312, with another contributing employer to the Pension Fund.  
### ARTICLE 22 - WAGES  
The wage rates, progression scales and across the board increases effective  
during the term of this Agreement are more particularly set forth in Schedule  
"A", annexed hereto and made a part hereof.  
### ARTICLE 23 - WORKWEEK AND HOURS  
### A. Full time Employees  
Forty (40) hours shall constitute the regular workweek for all  
regular full time employees covered herein, and it shall consist of five (5)  
eight (8) hour days.  
2. In a week in which a holiday occurs, thirty two (32) hours in four  
(4) eight (8) hour days shall constitute the regular workweek for all such  
employees.  
B. Part time Employees  
1, Part time employees, except those who are available on a limited  
basis will be scheduled for no less than sixteen (16) hours per week and four  
(4) hours per day, provided they are available on a regular and continuing  
basis and further provided that they are available to work the Employer's  
16  
schedule of hours and there is no drop in business. Part time employees  
under eighteen (18) years of age may be scheduled to work three and three  
quarters (3 3/4) hours per day, inclusive of one (1) fifteen (15) minute break  
on school days, except Friday and Saturday, and they shall be scheduled for  
no less than sixteen(16) hours per week when available. Part time employ-  
ees under sixteen (16) years of age may be scheduled to work less than four  
(4) hours per day. but no less than three (3) hours per day on school days in  
order to comply with the law,  
2. In a week in which a holiday occurs, part time employees, if  
available, wili be scheduled for no less than sixteen {[6) hours in addition to  
the holiday.  
3. Regular part time employees who are temporarily assigned to full  
time work at any time throughout the year shall receive their regular part  
time rate or the minimum full time clerk's rate. whichever is higher. from the  
first (1st) scheduled full week of such assignment.  
4. Part time employees are to receive first preference for all full time  
temporary work assignments during the summer months and holiday seasons.  
5. Regular part time employees who are appointed to permanent full time  
work receive half (1/2) credit for their length of continuous part time  
service for the purpose of determining their appropriate full time wage rate.  
They shall receive the minimum full time rate for after thirty (30) days. In  
addition, they shail receive twenty ($20.00) doilars for each twelve (12)  
months of part time service to determine their full-time rate. Thereafter, they  
shall receive twenty ($20.00) dollars for each six (6) months of full time  
service, but in no event can they exceed the top maximum applicable rate of  
pay for ful! time clerks on the payroll as of the date of conversion.  
C. Working hours shall be consecutive except for a meal period of  
sixty (60) minutes with flexibility in emergency situations which shall not  
be abused. Meal periods shall be provided during such hours as the  
Employer may designate and which shall not count in computing the  
number of hours worked.  
D. All employees are to receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period for  
each four (4) hours of work, except as provided in Article XXIII. Section  
B.1. Employees may be required to punch time cards for all rest periods.  
### ARTICLE 24 - OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAY  
### A. Full time Employees  
], Full time employees shall receive overtime pay at the rate of time  
and one half (1 1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess  
of eight (8) in one day or forty (40) in one week which shall not be pyramided.  
2. Full time employees shall receive premium pay of seventy five  
($.75) cents per hour for each hour worked after 6:00 P.M. and before 8:00  
A.M. if the hours so worked are within their regular forty (40) hour work-  
week, except that full time employees hired or appointed on or after June 19,  
1988 to this shift shall receive premium pay for hours worked after 6:00  
P.M. and before 6:00 A.M. Full time employees hired or reclassified after  
June 20, £998 who start at 5:00 A.M. or later shall not receive premium pay.  
3. Full time employees hired after June 22, 1985 to work four (4) or  
more days per week on any shift starting between 12:00 P.M. and 3:30 P.M.  
shall receive premium pay of one ($1.00) dollar per day. Full time  
employees hired after June 20, 1998 who start at 11:00 A.M. or later shall  
receive premium pay of one ($1.00) dollar per day from the first (1st) day.  
17  
4, The company may introduce a four (4) day, ten (10) hour workweek  
for full-time associates on a voluntary basis. The Company may have full  
discretion of the establishment and elimination of the new shift. Holiday  
pay, Sick pay, compassionate and jury duty leave will be paid at ten hours for  
each day used. Employees on four day, ten hour straight-time shifts will be  
provided a fifteen (15) minute break before lunch and a twenty (20) minute  
break after lunch. Minimum call-in, beyond scheduled hours, will be eight  
(8) hours. All premiums currently paid will be paid. These full-time  
employees shall receive time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of  
forty (40) hours in a week or in excess of ten (10) hours in any day. Ina  
holiday workweek, full-time employees shall receive time and one-half after  
thirty (30) regular hours if they are on a four (4) day, ten (10) hour  
workweek. The introduction of this four (4) day, ten (10) hour shift does not  
affect the overtime provision for those full-time employees working the five  
(5) day, eight (8) hour shifts.  
B. Part time Employees  
1. Part time employees shall receive overtime pay at the rate of time  
and one half (1 1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess  
of eight (8) in one day.  
2. Part time employees shall receive one and one half (1 1/2) their  
regular rate of pay for all hours worked on their sixth (6th) day in a  
workweek, excluding Sunday, provided that all other scheduled hours on the  
other five (5) days have been worked.  
3. Part time employees appointed to full time after June 22, 1985 to  
work four (4) or more days per week on any shift starting between 12:00  
PM. and 3:30 P.M. shall receive premium pay of one ($1.00) dollar per day.  
Part time employees appointed to full time after June 20, 1998 who start at  
11:00 A.M. or later shall receive premium pay of one ($1.00) dollar per day  
from the first (1st) day.  
C. Sunday Work  
1, All employees shall receive double (2) times their regular rate of pay  
for work performed on Sunday. Full time employees hired on or after  
January 1, 1990 shall receive one and one half (1-1/2) times their regular  
rate of pay for work performed on Sunday. Part time employees hired on or  
after January 1, 1987 shall receive one and one half (1 1/2) times their  
regular rate of pay for work performed on Sunday. Part-time employees  
hired after June 22, 2008 shall receive straight time for the first twelve (12)  
months of employment for all hours worked on Sunday which shall not be  
considered as part of the regular work week. Upon the completion of twelve  
(12) months of employment, the employee shall receive time and one-half  
(1-1/2x) times their regular rate for all hours worked on Sunday. Sunday  
shall not be considered as part of the regular work week.  
2. Effective January 1, 1996, full time or part time employees who  
receive double (2) time for work performed on Sunday shal! receive a frozen  
premium rate which is equal to the hourly straight time rate of pay they were  
eaming as of January 1, 1996. In addition to this (frozen) premium hourly  
rate of pay, they shall receive their regular hourly rate of pay for each hour  
of work performed on Sunday. As their regular hourly rate increases, the  
frozen premium hourly rate shall remain the same, except in the event of a  
reclassification from part time to full-time, full time to part time,  
Department Manager to full time or part time clerk, or full time or part time  
clerk to Department Manager, their frozen premium hourly rate will be equal  
to the hourly rate they would be entitled to after reclassification in addition  
to their regular hourly rate. Employees receiving the Frozen Sunday rate  
shall continue to receive such rate unti] the Sunday frozen rate is equivalent  
to half of the employee's hourly rate. Then in such event, the employee shall  
18  
continue to be paid time and one-half for ai] hours worked on Sunday.  
Employees hired or appointed to Department Manager on or after January |,  
1996 shail receive a frozen Sunday premium of no less than eighteen  
($18.00) per hour in addition to their regular straight time hourly rate  
for work performed on Sunday.  
3. Full time employees receiving double (2) time who are reclassified  
to part time shall continue to receive double (2) time for work performed on  
Sunday.  
4. Part time employees receiving time and one half (1/2) who are  
promoted to ful] time shall continue to receive time and one half (1/2) for  
work performed on Sunday. Part time employees receiving double (2) time  
who are promoted to fuil time shall continue to receive double (2) time for  
work performed on Sunday.  
5. Employees shall not be required to work on Sunday. If the Employer  
is unable to staff a department on Sunday. employees shall be required to  
work in inverse order of seniority.  
6. Full time employees shall be given a reasonable opportunity to work on  
Sundays on a rotating basis by seniority when the store is open for business.  
D. Minimum Call In  
1. Any full time employee, except a night crew employee. who works  
on Sundays shall be scheduled for four (4) hours' work, provided the  
employee is available. Any full time night crew employee who works on  
Sundays or holidays shall be scheduled for eight (8) hours, work. provided  
the employee is available. except that such employee may be scheduled to  
work four (4) hours on Sundays on a shift starting at 5:00 A.M. or later.  
2. Newly hired or converted full-time employees on or after 6/23/02,  
who work on the night crew, shall be scheduled for a minimum of five (5)  
hours when they work on Sunday.  
3. Any Part Time employee who works on Sundays or Holidays shall  
be scheduled for four (4) hours' work, provided the Employec is available.  
E. Part Time Employees that work over 29 regular hours  
1. Effective 6/23/02 present employees that work over 29 regular hours  
shal] receive the difference between their hourly rate of pay and $9.875 per  
hour. Effective 6/20/04 this rate will increase to $10.375 per hour.  
2. New part-time employees hired on or after 6/23/02 when working  
over 29 regular hours shail receive the difference between their rate of pay  
and $9.375 per hour. Effective 6/20/04 this rate will increase to $10.375 per  
hour.  
### ARTICLE 25 - WORK SCHEDULE  
The Employer shall post a work schedule for all employees no later than  
5:00 P.M. each Friday for the following week. Changes may be made in this  
schedule in an emergency only with due notification to the Union.  
### ARTICLE 26 - DISCHARGE  
The Employer shall have the right to discharge any employee for just cause  
who has survived the trial period and has attained the status of a  
permanent employee. Just cause shall include, but not be limited to,  
19  
dishonesty, falsification of records, mishandling of the Employer's property  
or funds, insybordination, abusive language, intoxication, violation of  
procedures for handling cash and/or receiving merchandise, lateness and  
absenteeism, which shall be either chronic or such as to interfere with the  
routine of the Employer's business and schedules.  
### ARTICLE 27  
### GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION  
All disputes, differences or grievances arising out of interpretation, applica-  
tion, breach or claim of breach of the provisions of this Agreement shall be  
settled in the following manner:  
A. Within two (2) calendar weeks of the occurrence of such dispute,  
difference or grievance, authorized representatives of the Union and the  
Employer shall, in good faith, endeavor to adjust such dispute, difference or  
grievance.  
B. In the event that the matter is not adjusted in the above step, a  
representative of the Employer charged with the responsibility for labor  
relations and a duly designated representative of the Union shall attempt to  
adjust the same.  
C. In the event the dispute, difference or grievance stiJl remains  
Unadjusted after compliance with the above step, then such dispute, differ-  
ence or grievance may be submitted to arbitration by cither party not later  
than thirty (30) days after the occurrence to an arbitrator mutually selected  
by the parties or to the American Arbitration Association for its designation  
of an arbitrator, in accordance with its miles, to hear and determine the matter.  
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties. The  
expenses of the arbitration shall be bore equally between the parties.  
D. The arbitrator shall not have the authority or power to arbitrate new  
provisions to this Agreement, or to arbitrate away either in whole or in part  
any provision of this Agreement, nor shall the arbitrator have the power to  
add to, delete from or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE 28 - NO STRIKES NO LOCKOUTS  
A. There shall be no cessation of work, no strikes, no picketing, no  
slowdowns, no sit downs or other interference with the operation of the  
Employer's business sanctioned by the Union, nor shall the Employer  
lockout for any cause whatsoever during the term of this Agreement.  
B. The Union, by its officers, shall promptly make every effort to  
prevent and stop any cessation of work, strike, picketing, slowdown, sit  
down, or other interference with the operation of the Employer's business  
and shall order its members to return to work without delay.  
C. An employee who engages in any such activity shall be subject to  
discipline, including termination, by the Employer.  
### ARTICLE 29 -  
A. The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to have one (1) full  
time shop steward and one (1) part time shop steward in each store.  
B. The full time shop steward in each store shall not be transferred  
without prior notice to and discussion with the Union.  
C. The Union will provide the Employer with a list of the names of its  
authorized business representatives and shop stewards and will keep said list  
current.  
20  
D. The Employer will, with adequate notice, arrange for one (1) full  
time shop steward from each store to have the same scheduled day off once  
each year with (8) hours’ pay for the purpose of attending the Union's shop  
steward seminar.  
E. Shop stewards shall not handle grievances and shall not interfere  
with the operation of the Employer's business, and shall not cause or engage  
directly or indirectly in any unauthorized strikes, work stoppages.  
slowdowns, or job actions.  
### ARTICLE 30  
### ACCESS TO STORES AND UNION STORE CARD  
A. The Employer agrees to permit an authorized representative of the  
Union to visit any of the Employer's places of business at any time during  
normal working hours for the purpose of ascertaining whether this  
Agreement is being properly observed, provided that there shall be no  
interruption of or interference with the Employer's business.  
B. The Employer agrees to display the U.F.C.W. Union Store Card.  
gratis, for the period of this Agreement. The Union Store Card shall remain  
the property of the Union, and the Employer does hereby agree that the  
breach or violation of the provisions of this Agreement on its part shall  
constitute sufficient cause for the removal of the said Union Store Card by  
the Union.  
### ARTICLE 31 - MINORS  
The Employer shall not employ minors in violation of the laws of the  
State of New York or the Federal laws pertaining thereto.  
### ARTICLE 32 _- LIE DETECTOR TESTS  
No employee who has completed the probationary period shall be  
required by the Employer to take a lie detector test.  
### ARTICLE 33 - INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE  
Newly hired employees shal] be given credit for a minimum of one (1) year’s  
prior experience in the supermarket industry for the purpose of  
establishing the employees’ wage rates only provided that the experience  
was eared within the preceding twelve (12) months and declared on the  
employment application.  
### ARTICLE 34 - RECLASSIFICATION  
A. A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall be placed  
on the new hire part time progression scale and shall, for wage rate purposes,  
be given credit for his/her service on a two (2) month for one (1) month  
basis. They shall receive the minimum part time rate for thirty (30) days and,  
in addition, shall receive twenty five ($.25) cents for each six (6) months of  
full time service to determine their part time rate. Thereafter, they shall  
receive twenty five ($.25) cents for each six (6) months of part time service.  
In no event can they exceed the top maximum applicable rate for part time  
clerks on the payroll] as of the date of conversion.  
B. A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall receive  
payment for earned and unused ful] time vacation. The employee shall  
receive, after one (1) year, part time vacation benefits based upon the  
employee's total length of service.  
21  
C. A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall receive  
part time sick leave pro rated for the balance of that sick leave year, based  
upon the employee's total length of service. Thereafter, the employee shall  
receive part time sick leave based upon the employee's total length of service.  
D. A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall receive  
payment for earned and unused personal holidays.  
E. Upon the reclassification of a full time employee to part time, the  
Employer shall make part time contributions on behalf of the employee to  
the Welfare, Pension and Legal Funds, beginning the first (1st) day of the  
month following such reclassification.  
### ARTICLE 35 - TECHNOLOGY  
The Employer reserves the right to introduce new technology. The Employer  
will meet and discuss with the Union the impact of this technology on the  
workforce.  
### ARTICLE 36 - INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENTS  
The Employer shall not enter into individual agreements with employees  
covered by this Agreement which conflict with this Agreement, nor shall the  
Employer accept or require security of any sort from any employee except  
as may be otherwise set forth in this Agreement or consented to by the  
Union.  
### ARTICLE 37_- SAVINGS CLAUSE  
The parties hereto agree that should any article or subdivision of this  
Agreement be or become unlawful, invalid, ineffective or unenforceable by  
virtue of any act, law or decisions of any established governmental agency  
or court, then any such article or subdivision shall not affect the validity and  
enforceability of any other article or subdivision thereof, and the remainder  
of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect for its duration.  
### ARTICLE 38 - SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS  
This Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Employer, its  
successors and assigns, and to the Union, their successors and assigns, and  
shall include al] bargaining unit stores now owned, operated, conducted or  
maintained by the Employer, its successors, assigns or agents.  
### ARTICLE 39 _- TERM OF AGREEMENT  
The parties agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement  
to and including June 26, 2010 at which time this Agreement shall be  
automatically renewed from year to year thereafter unless at least  
ninety (90) days prior to said date, or any annual date of expiration  
thereafter, written notice by registered mail is given by either party to the  
other of a desire to revise or to terminate this Agreement.  
### PATHMARK STORES, INC. LOCAL 1500, UF.C.W.  
Rick McGinle Bruce W. Both  
    
Vice President, Lal President  
### SCHEDULE"A” - WAGES  
### A. DEPARTMENT MANAGERS  
1, Dept. Managers, Produce, Dairy, Non Foods. Grocery, Customer Service  
Manager and Night Crew Chiefs  
Across the Board weekly wage increases  
### EFFECTIVE:  
e212 L209  
$25.00 $15.00 $10.00 $15.00 $10.0 $10.00 $10.00  
2. All Department Managers hired or appointed on or before June 24, 2006  
shall receive an increase in the amount necessary to bring their rate to  
$1,110.00 per week, effective May 16, 2010.  
3. Minimum weekly wage rates for Department Managers and Night Crew  
Chicfs hired or appointed on or after June 25, 2006:  
### EFFECTIVE:  
A206 sane 1 UM CIR 21M ae  
$995.00 $1010.00 $1035.00 $1.04500 $1,055.00 $1.965.00 $1,075.00  
### B. RELIEF DEPARTMENT MANAGERS:  
1, Present full-time employees that have relieved in the past wil] receive the  
difference between their weekly rate of pay and $865.00 per week. If  
employees that relieve make at or above $865.00 per week they shall receive  
a premium of $10.00 per week.  
2. New full-time employees and those present full-time employees that have  
never relieved before will receive the difference between their weekly rate  
of pay and $775.00 per week, effective 6/20/04 this rate will increase to  
$825.00 per week. If employees that relieve make at or above these rates  
they shall receive a premium of $10.00 per week.  
3. Part-time employees who never relieved a Department Manager prior to  
June 20, 1998 shall receive a minimum rate of $650.00 per week for five (5)  
days, forty (40) hours, for each week of relief.  
### C. PREMIUMS  
The following premiums shail be included in regular wages for the purpose  
of determining overtime rates:  
1. Full-time Frozen Food First Clerk  
One (1) employee per store appointed Frozen Food First Clerk shall receive  
a premium of $25,00 per week.  
2. Full-time Head Bookkeeper  
One (1) employee per store appointed Head Bookkeeper shall receive a pre-  
mium of $15.00 per week.  
3. Part-time Bookkeeper  
One (1) employee per store appointed Bookkeeper shall receive a premium  
of $0.25 per hour.  
4. Full-time Horticulture Clerk  
One (1) employee per store appointed Horticulture Clerk shall receive a pre-  
mium of $5.00 per week.  
5. Full-time Price Integrity Coordinator  
One (1) employee per store appointed Price Integrity Coordinator shall  
receive a premium of $10.00 per week.  
23  
### D. NIGHT CREW;  
Full-time night crew clerks and chiefs shall receive ten (10%) percent per  
week above their regular applicable progression scale or wage, except that  
such employees hired or appointed on or after June 19, 1988 shall receive no  
more than fifty ($50.00) dollars per week. Part time employees who work on  
a night shift from 12:00 A.M. midnight to 8:00 A.M. shall receive ten (10%)  
percent per week above their regular applicable progression scale or wage.  
A Saturday Night Crew employee who is scheduled to work eight (8) hours  
into Sunday may voluntarily work for a period of four (4) hours. In order to  
do this, the employee must sign a waiver of his right to work the eight (8)  
hours indicating that he is voluntarily working the four (4) hours and will  
only be paid for the four (4) hours worked.  
   
1. Wage Increases  
### EFFECTIVE:  
Pulltrme 122807 G/2208 1218 6/2109 12/20/09 5/16/10  
Clerks = $25.00 $10.00 $1000 $1000 $1000 $10.00 $10.00  
2. Wage Progressions  
### EFFECTIVE:  
G2506 122496 62407 DOWD UZ 62108  
$925 $950 $960 SON) $980 «= $990 $1000 $1010  
$920 355 = $965 BIS HS 95 = S110  
$915 50 mH 9H $980 $990 Si1M0 $1 P10  
$910 §= $885 S45 5965 5875 $985 $995 51010  
$005 $90 400 89 $950 90 97 DOS $1910  
$900 $925 $935 $945 $955 $965 $975 $985 $990  
$895 $920 $930 $940 $950 «= $960 $970 = $980 $990  
$890 «$915 $925 $935 $945 $055 $955 $975 $990  
$885 $910 $920 $930 S940 $950 960 «$97 = 990  
$880 $905 $915 $925 $935 $945 $955 $965 $970  
$875 $900 $910 = $920 $930 8396 $940 $950 $960 $970  
$870 «= $895 $905 $925 $935 $945 = $955 $970  
$865 $890 $900 = $910 $920 $930 $940 $950 $970  
$800 $8R5 $895 $905 $915 $925 $935 $945 $950  
$855 $390 $900 S910 $920 $930 $90 $950  
$850 $875 $885 $895  S90S $915 $925 $935 $950  
$845 $870 S880 $890 «= $900. $910 $920 $930 $950  
$840 $865 $875 $885 = $895 = $905 $915 $925 $950  
$835 $860 $870 $880) «$890 $900 $910 $920 $925  
$830 $855 $865 $875 $885 = $895 $905 $915 $925  
$825 $860 $870 $880 $890 $900 «$910: $925  
$820 $845 $855 $865 $875 $885 $905) = $925  
$815 $e40 $850 3860 $870 $880 $890 $900 $925  
S810 $835 $845 $855 9 $875 $885 $895 $900  
$805 $830 $840 $8500 $880 $890 $900  
$800 $825 $835 $845 $855 $865 $875 $885 $900  
$795 $820 $830 $840 $850 = $860 $870 «= SB80 $900  
$790 «$815 $825 $835 $845 $855 $865 $875 $900  
$785 $810 $820 $830 $840 $850 $860 $870 $875  
$780 $805 $815 $825 $835 $345 $855 $865 $875  
$775 $800 $810 $820 «= $830 $840 $850 $860 = $B75  
$770 $795 $805 $815 $825 $835 $845 $855 $875  
$765 $790 $800 $810 $820 $830 $840 «$8500 S875  
S760 $785 $795 S805 $815 $825 $835 $845 $850  
$755 $780 $790 $800 $820 $830 $850  
$750 $775 $785 $795 $805 SBiS $825 $835 $850  
G254i 1224906 62407 122108 LAMP  
$745 $770 $789 $790} $800 S810 $820 $830 $850  
$740 = - $765 $775 = $785 $795 $805 S815 = $825 3850  
$735 $760 S770 = $780 $790 $800 $810 = $820 $825  
$730 = $755 $765 = $775 $785 $795 $805 $815 $825  
$725 $750 $760 $770 $780 $790 $800 $810 $825  
$720) = $745 $755 $765 $775 $785 $795 $805 $825  
S7iS $740 $750) «$760 S77} $780 $790 S800 $825  
$710 $745 = $755 $765 $775 $785 $795 $800  
$705 4730 $740 = $750 $760 $770 $780 = $790 $800  
$700 |= $725 $735 $745 $755 $765 $775 $785 $800  
$695 $720 $730 = $740 $750 S760 $770 = $780 3800  
$690 = S715 $725 $735 $745 $755 $765 S775 $800  
$685 $710 $720 $730 $740 $750 S760, $770 $775  
$680 $705 $725 $735 $745 $755 $765 $775  
$675 $700 $710 $720 $740 $750 = $760 $775  
$670 $695 $705 = $715 $725 $735 $745 = $755 $775  
$665 3690 $700 $710 $720 $730 S740 = $750 $775  
$660 $695 $705 $715 $725 $735 $745 $70  
$655 $680 $690 = $700 $710 $720 $7 = $740 $750  
$650 $675 $685 $695 $705 $715 $725 $735 $750  
$645 $670 $680 $700 $710 $720 S730 $750  
S640 $665 $675 $685 $695 $705 $715 $725 $750  
$635 $660 $670 $680 5690) $700 $710 $720 $725  
S60) $655 $665 $675 $685 $695 $705 $715 $725  
$625 $650 $660 «= $670 $680 S690 $700 $710 $725  
$2: | $655 = 3665 $675 SRS $695 $705 $725  
$615 S640 5650 «= $660 $670 5680 $690 $700 $725  
$610 $635 $655 $665 $675 $685 3695 $700  
$605 $630 $640 = $650 3660 $670 S680 = $690 $700  
$600, $625 $635 $645 $655 $665 $675 $685 $700  
$595 $620 $630 S640 $650 700 $670 S680 $700  
$590 $615 $625 $635 $645 $655 $665 5675 $700  
$585 = $610 $620 $630 $640 650 S660 86 $670 $675  
$580 = $605 $615 $625 $635 $645 $655 $665 $675  
$575 $600 $610 $620 $630 $640 630 = $660 $675  
$570 $595 $005 $615 $625 $635 $445 $655 S675  
$565 $590 $600 $610 $620 $630 $640 $650 $675  
$560 $595 $605 S615 $625 $635 $645 3650  
$555 $580 $590 $600) S610 $620 $60 $640 $650  
$55) = $575 $585 $595 $605 $615 $625 $635 $650  
$545 $570 $585 $590 $600) 5610 $620 $630 $650  
$540 = S565 $575 $585 $595 $605 $615 $625 3650  
$535 $560 $570 = $580 $590 $600 5610 $620 $625  
3530) = $555 $565 $575 $585 $595 $605 $615 $625  
$525 $550 $5) $570 $580 $590 $600 $610 $625  
$520 $555 $565 $575 $535 $595 $605 $625  
$515 $540 $550 S560 $570 $580 $590 $600 $625  
$510 $535 $545 $555 $565 $575 S585 $595 $600  
$505 $53) $540 $550 5560 $570 3580 = $590 $600  
$500 $525 $535 $545 $555 $565 $575 = $585 $600  
= $520 $530 = $541) $550 $560 $570 = $580 $600  
$490 $515 $525 $535 $545 $555 $565 $575 5600  
$485 = S510 $520 $530 $540 $550 S570 $575  
= $505 $515 = $525 $535 $545 $555 $570 $575  
$475 = $500 S510 $520 5530 $540 3550 = $570 $575  
3470 $505 = $515 $525 $535 $550 = $570 $575  
$65 $490 $500 $510 $520 $530 $550 = $570 $575  
$460 $495 $505 $515 $530 $550 $570 $575  
$455 $4380 $490 = $500 $510 $530 $550 $570 S575  
$450 = $475 S485 $510 $530 $550 $570 $575  
445 $470 4800 «MH 3510 $530 S550 $570 $575  
25  
£25065 122406 Lav UZ gio  
$440) «$465 $475. $490 $510 $530 $550 $570 $575  
$435 $460 $470 © $490 $510 $530 $550 $570 $575  
$430 $455 $470 6 $490 $510 $530 $550 $570 $575  
$425 $450 $470 = $490 $510 $530 $550 $570 $575  
3420 «$445 $490 $510 $530 $550 $570 $575  
$440 $490  
$510 $530 $550 $570 $575  
   
1. Wage Increases  
### EFFECTIVE:  
6/25/06 12/24/06 624/07 12/2307 i22009  
Clerks $0.35 3020 $0.15 $020 $0.15 $020 $0.15  
2. Wage Progressions  
### EFFECTIVE:  
6/25/06 12/24/86 G2407 12207 62208 1272108 62189 122008 S/lé6/t0  
$1565 $16.00 $16.20 $16.35 $1655 $16.70 $1690 $17.05  
$15.60 $15.95 $16.15 $1630 $1650 $16.65 $16.85 $1700 $17.05  
$1555 $15.90 $16.10 $1625 $1645 $16.60 $1680 $1695 $17.05  
$1550 $15.85 SI605 $1620 $1640 $1655 $16.75 $1690 $17.05  
$1545 $15.80 $16.00 $16.15 $1635 $1650 $16.70 $1685 $1705  
$1540 $15.75 $15.95 $16.10 $1630 $1645 $16.65 $17.05  
$1535 $15.70 $1590 $1605 $16.25 $1640 $1660 $16.75 $17.05  
$1530 $15.65 $15.85 $1600 $16.20 $1635 $1655 $16.70 $16.75  
$15.25 $15.60 $15.80 $15.95 $16.15 $1630 $1650 $1665 $16.75  
$15.20 $15.75 $1590 $16.10 $1625 $1645 $1660 $16.75  
$15.15 $15.50 $15.70 $1585 $1605 $1620 $1640 $1655 $16.75  
$15.10 $15.45 $1565 $15.80 $1600 $16.15 $1635 $1650 $16.75  
$15.05 $15.40 $15.60 $15.75 $15.95 $16.10 $1630 $1645 $16.50  
$15.00 $15.35 $1555 $15.70 $1590 $1605 $16.25 $1640 $16.50  
$14.95 $15.30 $15.50 $1565 $15.85 $1600 $1620 $1635 $1650  
$14.90 $15.25 $1545 $15.60 $1580 S$I595 $16.15 $1630 $16.50  
$14.85 $15.20 $1540 $1555 $15.75 $1590 $16.10 $1625 $16.50  
$1480 $15.15 $1535 $1550 $15.70 $1585 $1605 $16.20 $16.25  
$14.75 $15.10 $15.30 $1545 $1565 $1580 $1600 $16.15 $16.25  
$14.70 $15.05 $1525 $15.40 $1560 $15.75 $1595 $16.10 $16.25  
$14.65 $15.00 $1520 $1535 $1555 $15.70 $15.90 $1605 $16.25  
$14.60 $14.95 $15.15 $1530 $15.50 $1565 $1585 $1600 $16.25  
$1455 $14.90 $15.10 $15.25 $1545 $1560 $1580 $1595 $16.00  
$14.50 $1485 $15.05 $1520 $1540 $1555 $15.75 $1590 $1600  
$1445 $14.80 $1500 $15.15 $1535 $1550 $15.70 $1585 $16.00  
$1440 $14.75 $1495 $15.10 $1530 $1545 $15.65 $1580 $16.00  
$1435 $14.70 $14.90 $1505 $15.25 $1540 $15.60 $15.75 $1600  
$14.30 $14.65 $1485 $15.00 $1520 $1535 $iS55 $15.70 $15.75  
$1425 $14.40 $1480 $1495 $15.15 $15.30 $15.50 $1565 $15.75  
$1420 $14.55 $14.75 $1490 $15.10 $1525 $1545 $15.60 $15.75  
$14.15 $14.50 $14.70 $14.85 $15.05 $15.20 $1540 $1555 $15.75  
$14.10 $1445 $14.65 $1480 $1500 $15.15 $1535 $1550 $15.75  
$1405 $14.40 $14.60 $14.75 $1495 $15.10 $15.30 $I5A5 $15.50  
$1400 $1435 $1455 $14.70 $1490 $1505 $1525 $1540 $15.50  
$1395 $14.30 $1450 $1465 $1485 $1500 $1520 $1535 $15.50  
$13.90 $14.25 $1445 $14.60 $1480 $1495 $15.15 $1530 $15.50  
$1385 $14.20 $1440 $1455 $14.75 $1490 $15.10 $1525 $15.50  
$1380 $14.15 $1435 $1450 $14.7) $1485 $15.05 $15.20 $15.25  
$13.75 $14.10 $14.30 $1445 $1465 $1480 $1500 $15.15 $15.25  
$23.70 $1405 $14.25 $1440 $14.60 $14.75 $1495 $15.10 $15.25  
$13.65 $1400 $14.20 $1435 $1455 $14.70 $1490 $1505 $15.25  
$13.60 $13.95 $14.15 $1430 $1450 $1465 $1485 $1500 $15.25  
$1355 $13.90 $14.10 $1425 $1445 $1460 $1480 $1495 $15.00  
26  
Present G/25/06 12/2406 6/24/07 12/2407 12/2108 6/2109 122009 S610  
$13.50 = $13.85 $1405 $1420 $1440 $1455 $14.75 $14.90 $15.00  
$1345 $13.80 $1400 $14.15 $14.35 $1450 $14.70 $1485 $15.00  
$1340 $13.75 $13.95 $1410 $1430 $1445 $1465 31480 $1500  
$1335 $13.70 $13.90 $1405 $1425 $1440 $14.00 $14.75 $15.00  
$13.30 $13.65 $1385 $1400 $14.20 $1435 $1455 $14.70 $14.75  
$13.25 $13.60 $13.80 $13.95 $14.15 $14.30 $1450 $1465 $14.75  
$13.20 $13.55 $13.75 $13.90 $14.10 $14.25 $1445 $1460 $14.75  
$13.15 $13.50 $13.70 SiI3R85 $1405 $1420 $1440 $1455 $14.75  
$13.10 $1345 $1365 $1380 $1400 $14.15 $1435 $1450 $14.75  
$13.05 413.40 $13.60 $13.75 $13.98 $1410 $1430 $1445 $1450  
$13.00 $1335 $13.55 $13.70 $13.90 $1405 $1425 $1440 $1450  
$12.95 $1330 $13.50 $13.65 $13.85 $1400 $14.20 $14.35 $1450  
$12.90 $13.25 $1345 $13.60 $13.80 $13.95 $14.15 $14.30 $1450  
$12.85 $13.20 $13.40 $1355 $13.75 $13.90 $14.10 $1425 $1650  
$1280 $13.15 $13.35 $1350 $1370 $13.85 $14.05 $14.20 $14.25  
$12.75 $13.10 $1330 $1345 $1365 $1400 SI415 $14.25  
$12.70 $13.25 $1340 SI3.60 $13.75 S13.9S $14.10 $14.25  
$12.65 $13.00 $13.20 $13.35 $1355 $13.70 $13.90 $1405 $14.25  
$1260 $12.95 $13.15 S$I330 $1350 $1365 $13.85 $1400 $1425  
$1255 $12.96 $13.10 $1325 $1345 $13.60 $13.80 $13.95 $1400  
$1250 $12.85 $13.0S $1320 $13.40 $1355 $13.75 $13.90 $1400  
$1245 $12.80 $13.00 $13.15 $1335 $13.50 $13.70 $1385 314.00  
$1240 $12.75 $1295 $13.10 $1330 $1345 $13.65 $1380 $1400  
$12.35 $12.70 $12.90 $1305 $1325 $1340 $1360 $13.75 $14.00  
$12.30 $12.65 $1285 $1300 $1320 $1335 $1355 $13.70 $13.75  
$1225 $12.60 $1280 $1295 $13.15 $1330 $1350 $1365 $13.75  
$1220 $1255 $12.75 $1290 $13.10 $1325 $1345 $13.60 $13.75  
$12.15 $12.50 $12.7) $12.85 $1305 $1320 $13.40 S$I355 $13.75  
$12.10 $12.45 $12.65 $12.80 $1300 $13.15 $1335 $13.50 $13.75  
$1205 $12.40 $1260 $12.75 $1295 $13.10 $1330 $13.45 $1350  
$12.00 $12.35 $1255 $1270 $1290 $13.05 S$I325 $1340 $13.50  
$11.95 $12.30 $1250 $1265 S1285 $13.00 Si3.20 $1335 $1350  
$11.90 $12.25 $1245 $1260 $1295 $1315 $1330 $13.50  
$1185 = $12.20 $1240 $1255 $12.75 $12.90 $1310 $1325 $13.50  
$11.80 $12.15 $1235 $1250 $12.70 $1285 $1305 $1320 $13.25  
$11.75 = $12.10 $1230 $1245 $12.65 $12.80 $13.00 $13.15 $13.25  
S170 $12.05 $1225 $1240 $12.60 $12.75 $1295 $13.10 $13.25  
S1145 $12.00 $1220 $1235 $1255 $12.70 $1290 $13.05 $13.25  
$11.60 $1195 $12.15 $1230 $1250 $1265 $1285 $1300 $13.25  
$11.90 $12.10 $1225 $1245 $1280 $1280 $12.95 $13.00  
$1150 $1185 $12.05 $12.20 $1240 $1255 $12.75 $1290 $13.00  
$11.45 $11.80 $1200 $12.15 $1235 $1250 $12.70 $1285 $1300  
$11.40 $11.75 $1195) «= $12.10 | $12.30) $1245 $1265 $12.80 $13.00  
$11.35 $11.70 $1190 $1205 $1225 $1240 $1260 $12.75 $13.00  
$11.5 $11.65 $1200 $12.20 $12.35 $1255 $1270 $12.75  
$11.25 $11.60 $1195 $12.15 $12.30 $1250 $1265 $12.75  
$11.20 $11.55 $11.75 $1190) $12.25 $1245 $1260 $12.75  
SI1.15 $11.50 $11.70 = S1i85 $12.05 $12.20 $1240 $1255 $12.75  
Sil.10 = $11.45 $11.65 $1180 $1200 $12.15 $1235 $1250 512.75  
SIDS = $11.40 $11.60 $175 $1195 $12.10 $1230 $1245 $12.50  
$11.00 $11.35 $1155 $11.70) $1190) $1205 $1225 $1240 $12.50  
$10.95 $1130 SISO $1165) | «$1200 $1220 $1235 $12.50  
$10.90 $11.25 $1145 $11.60 $1180 SII95 $12.15 $1230 $12.50  
$1085 $1120 $11.40 $1155 $1175 $1190 $12.10 $1225 $12.50  
$1080 $11.15 $11.35 $1150 $11.70 $11.85 $1205 $1220 $1225  
$10.75 $11.10 $11.30 S$II4S $1165 $11.80 $1200 $12.15 $12.25  
$10.70 $1105 $11.25 $1140) $1160 $11.75) $12.10  
$10.65 $11.00 $11.70 $12.05 = $12.25  
$10.60 $11.15 Si130 $1165 = SLIBS $1200 $12.25  
$1055 $10.90 S1125 $1160 SI186 $1195 $12.00  
$1050 $10.85 $1105) = $11.55 SLIL7S S119)  
27  
Present 12/246 62487 12/2007 G2208 5/16/10  
$10.45 $10.80 $11.00 $1135 = $11.70 $1185 $12.00  
$10.40 $10.75 $10.95 $11.10 $1130 SI145 SIL65 $1180 $12.00  
$1035 $10.70 $1105 $1125 $1140 $11.75 $12.00  
$10.30 $10.85 $1100 $11.20 $1135 = $1175  
$1025 $10.60 $10.30 $1095 $12.15 $1130 $1150 $1165 $11.75  
$10.20 $1055 $10.75 $10.90 $11.10 $1125 $1145 $1160 $11.75  
$10.15 $10.50 $10.70 $1085 $i105 SIL20 $11.40 $1155 $11.75  
$10.10 $10.45 $16.65 $10.80 $1100 $11.35 $1150 $11.75  
$10.05 $10.40 $1060 $10.75 $10.95 $11.10 SI130 $1145 $1150  
$10.00 $10.35 $1055 $10.70 $10.90 $1105 $1125 $1140  
$9.95 $1030 $10.50 $10.65 $1085 $1100 $1120 $1135 $11.50  
$9.90 $10.25 $1045 $1060 $1080 $10.95 $1115 $1130 $1150  
$9.85 $10.20 $10.40 $1055 $10.75 $1090 $11.10 $1125 $11.50  
$9.80 = $10.15 $1035 $1050 $10.70 $1085 $1105 $1120 $11.25  
$9.75 $10.10 $1030 $1045 $1065 $1080 $1100 $11.15 $11.25  
$9.70 $10.05 $1025 $1040 $1060 $10.75 $1095 $11.10 $1125  
$9.65 $10.00 $10.20 $10.35 $1055 $i0.70 $1090 S$ILO5  
$9.60 $9.95 $10.15 $1030 $1050 $1065 $10.85 $1100 $11.25  
$955 $9.90 $10.10 $10.25 $1045 $1060 $10.80 $1095 $1100  
$950 $9.85 $10.05 $1020 $1040 $1055 $10.75 $10.90 $11.00  
$9.45 $9.80 $1000 $10.15 $1035 $1050 $10.70 $1085 $11.00  
$9.40 $9.75 $995 $10.10 $10.30 $1045 $1065 $1080 $11.00  
$9.35 $9.70 $9.90 $1005 $1025 $1040 $1660 $10.75 $1100  
$930 $9.65 $985 $1000 $10.20 $10.35 $1055 $10.70 $10.75  
$925 $9.60 $980 = $10.15 $1030 $1065 $10.75  
$9.20 $9.55 $9.75 $9.90 $10.10 $1025 $1045 $1060 $10.75  
$9.15 $9.50 $9.70 $1005 $1020 $1040 $1055 $10.75  
$9.10 $945 $65 $920 $1000 $10.15 $1035 $1050 $10.75  
$905 3940 $9960 8 $1045 $1050  
$900 $9.35 $955 $9.70 $9.90 $1005 $1025 $1040 $1050  
$8.95 $930 $950 $965 $985 $1000 $1020 $1035 $10.50  
$890 $9.25 $945 $9.60 $920 $995 $1030 $10.50  
$835 $920 $940 $9.75 $9.90 $10.10 $1025 $1050  
$8.80 $9.15 $935 $950 $9.70 $985 $1005 $1020 $10.25  
$8.75 $9.10 $930 «$945 8 $9.80 $1000 $10.15 $1025  
$8.70 $9.05 $9.25 $940 $960 $975 $995 $10.10 $10.25  
$8.65 $9.00 $920 $935 $955 $9.70 $9.90 $1005 $10.25  
$8.60 $8.95 $9.15 $930 $950 S865 $9.85 $1000 $10.25  
$8.55 $8.90 $9.10 $925 $945 3960 $9830 $9.95 $10.00  
$850 $8.85 $940 S955 $9.75 $990 $10.00  
$8.45 $8.80 $900 $9.15 $935 $950 $9.70 $985 $10.00  
$840 $8.75 $895 $9.10 $930 $945 $965 $9230 $1000  
$8.35 $8.70 $8.90 $9.05 $925 $940 $960 $9.75 $10.00  
$830 $8.65 $885 $9.00 $920 $9.35 $955 $9.70 $9.75  
$825 38.60 $830 $8.95 $9.15 S930 S950 $9.65 $9.75  
$820 $8.55 $8.75 $8.90 $9.10 $9.25 $945 $9.60 $9.75  
$8.15 $8.50 $8.70 $885 $905 $920 $940 $955 $9.75  
$8.10 $845 $865 $880 $900 $9.15 $935 $950 $9.75  
$8.05 $8.40 $8.60 $8.75 $895 $9.10 $930 $945 $950  
$8.00 «$8.35 $855 $8.70 $8.50 $9.05 $925 $940 $9.50  
$7.95 $8.30 $850 $8465 $8.85 $9.00 $920 $935 $9.50  
$7.90 $8.25 $845 $860 $880 $8.95 $9.15 $930 $9.50  
$785 $8.20 $840 $855 $8.75 $8.90 $9.10 $925 $950  
$780 = $8.15 $835 $850 $8.70 S885 $9.10 $9.25 $950  
$7.75 $8.10 $830 «$845 $865 $880 $9.10 $925 $9.50  
$7.70 $8.05 $825 $840 $8.75 $9.10 $925 $950  
$765 $800 $820 $835 $800 $8.75 $9.10 $925 $950  
$7.0 $795 $8.15 $830 $860 $8.75 $9.10 $925 $950  
$755 $7.90 $8.10 $825 $860 $8.75 $9.10 $925 $950  
$750 = $7.85 $8.10 $825 $8.60 $8.75 $9.10 $925 $935  
$745 $7.80 $8.10 $825 $860 $8.75 $9.10 $925 $935  
$740 = $7.75 $8.10 $825 $860 $8.75 $9.10 $925 $935  
28  
   
Present, G/25/06 12/24/06 6/24/07 12/2108 12/7009 5/16/10  
$735 $7.75 $8.10 $825 $8.60 $8.75 $9.10 $9.25 $9.35  
$7.30 S765 $7.75 SR.IO $8.25 $8.60 $8.75 $910 $9.35  
$725 S760 $7.75 $8.25 S860 = 58.75 $Y¥.10 $9.25 $9 35  
$7.20 S755 $7.75 $8.10 $8.25 38.60 $8.75 $9.10 $9.25 59.35  
$7.15 $750 S775 $8.10 S825 SR75 39.10 59 35  
$7.10 $745 $7.75 $8.10 $8.25 58.60 = $8.75 $9.10 $9.25 $9.35  
S705 $740 $8.10 $825 S860 8 $8.75 $9.10 = $9.25 $9.35  
$700 $735 S775 $8.10 $825 SRO $8.75 $9.10 $925 $9.35  
### G, WEEKLY ACROSS THE BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PRO-  
### GRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME PORTERS ON THE PAYROLL JUNE  
3A, 20006:  
1. Wage Increases  
### EFFECTIVE:  
Full-tume 6/25/06 1224/06 6/2447 12/2N07 G2208 Gi21/09 12/20/09 S/16/10  
Pore, $10.00 $10.00 $10.00 $10.00 $1000 $1000 $10.00  
2. Wage Progressions  
### EFFECTIVE:  
Present G/25/06 12/2406 6/2497 12/2307 4/22/08 122108 12/20/09 5/16/10  
$695 $705 $715 $725 $735 $745 $755 $765  
$690 $700 $710 $720 870s $70 S750 STH $705  
S685 $605 S705 $715 = $7250 $7350 STAS = S755: $765  
$680 $690 S700 $710 STH $765  
$675 S685 $695 $705 $715 $725 $735 $745 $750  
$670 $680 «= $710. ss $7200— SHO STO  
$665 $675 SWS $725 $735 S750  
$660 $670 $680 S690 «= $700, $720 $7300 S750  
$655 $665 $675 S685 $695 S705) S715. $725 STU  
$650 $660 $670 $680) $690 S710  
$045 $655 $665 $675 $685 $695 $705 $715 $725  
S610 S600 $670 SOHO $690 $725  
$635 $645 S655 $665 S675, $685 $725  
5630 $640 $650 $660 S070 $680)  
$625 $635 $645 $665 = SHRS SONS $700  
$620 $630 $640 S650 $600 $670 56RD)  
$615 $625 $635 S645 $655 3665 $675 = = 87M  
$610 $620 $630 SOU = $650 S60 8670 $680 S700  
$005 $615 $625 $635 $645 S55 $665 $675 5700  
$600 $610 $620 $630 5640, SOSU $07) 8675  
$595 $605 S615 $625 S635 $H45 ss 8675  
$590 $600 S610 $620 S630 SHH 805 $660 «$675  
$585 $595 S605 S625) $6350 $645 S655 $HTS  
$580 $590 S610 $620 $690 SHAN S650 $675  
$575 $SH5 $595 S605 $615 $625 $635 S645 $450  
$570 $580 $500 S600 $610 $6200 $630 SHIN 5650  
$565 $575 $585 S595 $605 HIS $625 5635 S650  
$560 $580 $590 $600 S610 $620 = $630 $650  
$555 $565 S575. $5850 $595 S605 $625 $650  
$550 $560 $570 $580) $590 SON SKID $620 $25  
$545 $555 $565 $575 S585 $595 SeOS $615 $625  
$540 $550 S50> $57 $5 SUD SHID $625  
$535 $545 $555 S565 $575 $585 $595 S605 $625  
$5) $550 S560 $570 $580 $590 = SAD $625  
$525 $535 $545 $555 $565 S575 $585 $595 $600  
$520 $530 $540 $550 $560 $570 $580 8 $600  
$515 $525 S535 $545 $555 $565) = $575) $585 =: S600  
$510 $520 $530 $540 $5600 $570 $800  
$505 $515 $525 $535 $545 $555 $565 $575 $600  
$500 $510 $520 $530 $540 $550 $575  
Present 12406 §/24/07 122307 G/2208 12/2108 6/2179 S/16/10  
$495 $505 $515 $525 $535 $545 $555 $565 $575  
$490 $500 $5)0 $520 $530 $540 $550 $560 $575  
$485 $495 $505 $515 $525 $535 $545 $555 $575  
34800 0 $490 $500 $510 $520 $530 $540 $550 $575  
$475 $485 $495 $505 $515 $525 $535 $545 $550  
34700 $490 $500 $510 5520 $530 $540 $550  
3465 = $475 $485 $495 $505 $515 $525 $535 $550  
$470 $480 $490 $500 $510 $520 $530 $550  
$455 $465 $475 $485 $495 $505 $515 $525 $550  
$450 36 $460 $470 $480 $490 $500 $510 $520 $525  
$445 $455 $465 475 $485 $495 $505 $515 $525  
$4400 $450 4000 $470 $480 $490 $500 86 $510 $525  
$435 $445 $455 $475 $485 $95 $505 $525  
3430s $440 450 869460 3470 $450 $490 $500 $525  
$425 $435 $445 $455 $465 $475 $485 $495 $500  
$420 $430 $440 «= $450 $460 S470 $480 $490 $500  
$415 $425 $435 $455 $475 $485 $500  
$410 $420 $430 $440 $450 HH $470 = $480 $500  
$405 $425 $435 $445 $455 3465 $480 $500  
$400 = $410 $420 $430 $440 $450 $465 $480 $500  
$395 $405 $415 $425 $435 $450 $465 $480 $500  
$390 $400 $420 $435 $465 $480 $500  
$385 $395 $405 $420 $435 $450 $465 $480 $500  
$380 $390 $405 $420 $435 $450 $465 $480 $500  
$375 $385 $390 $405 $420 $435 $450 $465 $480 $500  
$370 «= $380)0=— $390 «$405 $420 $435 $450 $465 $480 $500  
$365 $375 $390 S405 $420 $435 $450 $465 $480 $500  
   
After 30 days $415.00  
Thereafter, these employees shall receive an increase of an additional twen-  
ty ($20.00) dollars per week after the completion of each six (6) months of  
employment from the date of hire.  
1. Full time clerks hired or appointed on or after June 25, 2006 shal! not  
receive the general across the board increases. However, all employees who  
reach the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a  
result of having been hired above the minimum shall be eligible to receive  
the across the board increases on June 24, 2007, December 23, 2007, June  
22, 2008, December 21, 2008, June 21, 2009 and December 20, 2009, if  
applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top  
clerks' rate of pay.  
2. All new full time clerks hired at or above the minimum thirty (30) day  
rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of ten  
($ 10.00) dollars after thirty (30) days’ employment and, thereafter, an addi-  
tional twenty ($20.00) dollars per week after the completion of each six (6)  
months of employment from the date of hire, provided that in no event shail  
such employee exceed the top clerks’ rate of pay.  
   
Eff, 6/25/06  
After 30 days $7.00 $7.50  
Thereafter, these employees shall receive an increase of an additional twen-  
ty five ($.25) cents per hour after the completion of each six (6) months of  
employment from the date of hire.  
30  
|. Part time Clerks and Porters hired on or after June 25, 2006 shall not  
receive the general across the board wage increases. However, an employee  
who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the  
Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum shall be eli-  
gible to receive the across the board increases on June 24, 2007, December  
23. 2007, June 22, 2008. December 21, 2008, June 21, 2009 and December  
20, 2009, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee  
exceed the top clerks' rate of pay.  
2. All new part time Clerks and Porters hired at or above the minimum thir-  
ty (30) day rate, in any event. shall receive a minimum wage increase of  
twenty five ($.25) cents per hour after thirty (30) days' and,  
thereafter, an additional twenty five ($.25} cents per hour after the comple-  
tion of each six (6) months of employment from the date of hire, provided  
that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerks’ rate of pay.  
### i. COURTESY CLERK CLASSIFICATION IN STORES WITH MIN-  
### IMUM WEEKLY VOLUME OF 300,000  
2. Hourly wage progressions for Courtesy Clerks hired on or after June 25, 2006.  
Eff. 6/25/06. Eff, 1/1/07  
After 30 days $7.00 $7.40  
Thereafter, these Courtesy Clerks shall receive fifteen ($.15) cent increases  
every six (6) months. Their duties shal] include bagging, collecting shopping  
carts, cleaning, sweeping the store, packing out bags, magazines, candy and  
soda on check stands and all items for display by the check stands and put-  
ting away overstocks or throwbacks.  
### K. WEEKLY WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME PORTERS  
### HIRED ON OR AFTER JUNE 25, 2006:  
Eff, 6/25/06  
After 30 days $365.00  
Thereafter, these employees shall receive an increase of an additional fifteen  
($15.00) dollars per week after the completion of each six (6) months of  
employment from the date of hire.  
1. Full time Porters hired or appointed on or after June 25. 2006 shall not  
receive the general across the board wage increases. However. an employee  
who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the  
Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum shall be eli-  
gible to receive the across the board increases on June 24, 2007, December  
23, 2007, June 22, 2008, December 21. 2008. June 21, 2009 and December  
20, 2009, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee  
exceed the top porters’ rate of pay.  
2. All new porters hired at or above the minimum thirty (30) day rate, in any  
event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of ten ($ 10.00) dollars after  
thirty (30) days' employment and, thereafter, an additional fifteen ($15.00)  
dollars per week after the completion of each six (6) months of employment  
from the date of hire, provided that in no event shal] such employee exceed  
the top porters’ rate of pay.  
### L. MINIMUM WAGE LAWS:  
In the event of an increase in the State or Federal minimum wages. the  
Employer agrees that the thirty (30) day part time rate shall be twenty five  
($.25) cents above the applicable State or Federal minimum wage.  
31  
### NOTES  
32  
ABC - Active Ballot Club  
The ABC, the UFCW’s Active  
Ballot Club, needs you and every other  
member to become politically active.  
       
       
     
    
ABC works to elect people to  
public office who understand the  
needs of working men: and women.  
ABC assists their campaigns ani keeps them informed  
on the issues as organized’ labor sees them.  
        
     
    
   
    
Today, there ‘is.a.great need for labor to have a voice  
in political action. Help make sure our Union has that  
voice by joining ABC now.  
      
       
Due to the many critical issues before Congress; state,  
city and local governments this year; it is important that  
we have sufficient: funds to support our friends and  
defeat those canditlates, who do not support the working  
man and woman, We excourage all members to participate  
in the Active Ballot Ciub. as a means of protecting our  
interests in the Various governmental bodies and in. the  
laws they pass that may affect our livelihood.  
   
     
       
     
   
      
    
If you hayen’t already signed up. see your Union  
Representative or Service Representative. Sign up today!  
      
    
   
    
Members employed by companies where there is no  
check-off wiil be able to. purchase their ABC  
Membership Cards. from their Union Representatives or  
Shep Stewards in the normal manner.  
   
   
      
       
   
Contributions of gifts to the  
deductible as‘charitable contributions for  
federal tax purposes.  
   
     
     
Be Informed!!!  
www.UFCW1500.org  
SSS SSS TIT eae cease  
ete ele x  
   
    
   
sta, bla t . * -  
“1 vrs fee ee et ra Qt hea Bt  
‘ ‘tS an et ong Te is rte i, ee =e  
uw re a x ener - ew le eae a ain? vere wee - - 4  
: = ny tlh oy “Tt fs ws, ad ais aed oe hed «te! .  
CASA bene Bees Fa aa ef  
eet ea ty Oe 5 cect ae ety ,  
r pers ‘ub. 4 Hoe i  
vit abu SITE  
La aif yee ane an 8, HE FE  
vt res i / J yar j ee a ;  
As th ewe eS ee st '  
- - . - tay  
. r . 4  
a 7” 1 ' re  
YY !  
_ * . GY co er ys loss  
ul / 4 *, "as Le . :  
. on - -- - — - ‘ vt.  
os  
‘ 3 ee wey A  
rE.  
### THE: DECISION:  
Se  
### 2 KNOW YOU RIGHTS! Pee  
ah, rc ; “ee ne oP  
rye 5 ae vir Puls. bet. RS! cays es . ois  
Sete a Wee a REY ape oe ahs eee inl “ ES ene tee  
ae aig ae ee : . “8 af i  
vole a m3 pie Soe a  
ae  
1 1 eu  
Be Brel Renee ee wee: yes he 2m ab If  
“He NiO: a 38) tates cnt, whe iT od i  
Fv. = no +  
ae Ii tempi aaa Ae ace uP lly! aby reasonably  
7 ie at ; i rg ithe ‘  
tt Resale evn Aye ise tard ie sti,  
2 “ a oT ee : 7 ee ,  
eg ‘ ' =  
* sy 5 wo ou nes Tae 7 an - a  
' 3. zt we ane a nb Mon} me a va! ‘i ae ye Py 2 aes . ‘  
### “4 ; UNDER Wel NGARTEN ARE:  
   
   
   
0! ate Sas Sas oot ir” - aoe am “yey 7 “Tey ‘ 4 7 .  
aa fear iy eGR fae ORS NR  
Ria way: Hep Shue Fi. uth ars  
ALE Fy Les”  
OE ee in dite  
ahs STAG rf ou Foe ea HERS Pete eS  
PRS gip te Leena) he Yn ee Po  
eee oH a Ub Be ae Ore  
a,  
|  
BON Gul PAGE Bie he cree. Us  
as fie usb, Stew Be  
~  
any oper! : :  
1  
2 ae Bi AS se at ee oat et , eb  
Shop. Sea eo  
ee ae. aout ee ee See > ae a  
In  
### “ESS eS  
    
~  
ee  
a? wr  
iC  
a  
   
wa. TS  
rot  
       
     
        
   
ie x a ens ie ra  
  
:  
Ett fre