     
John Traccoli, Jr.  
| Secretary Treasurer  
   
### UFCW LOCAL 1245  
United Food & Commercial Workers Union « AFL-CiO  
### VINCENT J. DeViITO  
     
          
  
### on OS VERE nee L- JOHN TROCCOLI, JR. MICHAEL DeVITO  
To Gur Membe! Secretary-Treasurer Recorder  
   
November 2001  
This is your personal copy of the contract negotiated by the Officers of UFCW local 1245  
and by the members of Acme Markets, Inc. You should read carefully all the sections  
to acquaint yourself with the conditions, as they will exist for the duration of this Agreement.  
### SOME MAJOR GAINS ACHIEVED IN NEGOTIATIONS ARE AS FOLLOWS:  
e Stronger seniority language.  
e A (90) day probationary period when employees are promoted to classified positions.  
¢ Stronger language for notification to employees when being recalled from layoffs.  
e Additional time off for full-time Shop Stewards.  
e Language change on time and one-half (1 1/2) for the sixth (6th) day worked for new  
employees (those hired after November 11, 2001).  
e New language on proper method of scheduling during extreme weather conditions or other  
emergencies.  
e More flexible vacation language - Employees receiving three (3) weeks vacation or more may  
take up to two (2) weeks in days.  
e Greater premiums for employees working on a Holiday during their first eighteen (18) months  
of employment.  
¢ Sunday Work - Effective November 11, 2001, employees hired prior to November 8, 1997 and  
promoted from part-time to full-time employment shall receive a higher premium (time and  
one-half (1 1/2) on Sundays).  
e Effective November 11, 2001, full-time employees hired or promoted after November 8, 1997  
shall receive a higher premium for all hours worked on Sunday, following the completion of  
(48) months of full-time service.  
e January 1, 2004, full-time employees’ Pension Benefit will increase from a Benefit Level 0  
$35.00 per year of service to a $40.00 Benefit Level per year of service. Part-time Benefit  
Level will increase from $17.50 per year of service to $20.00 per year of service.  
e Increased scholarship money to all eligible1245 Members and their dependents.  
e Your Health Benefits will be continued as a result of a significant increase in Health  
contributions by the Company (an 80% increase over (3) years) and new Health Benefits will  
be implemented throughout the course of the contract.  
e Excellent wage increases and lump sum bonus payments.  
e Duration of Agreement is (4) years —- November 11, 2001 - November 12, 2005.  
You should be aware that this contract is not written for any specific individual, but is  
written to do the most good for all concerned and in this spirit, all parties should do their  
utmost to fulfill the conditions as set forth.  
If you have any questions concerning your contract, please feel free to contact your  
Union office.  
Sincerely & Fraternally,  
Vincent 9. Yohu “Proceoli, Ir  
Vincent J. DeVito John Troccoli, Jr.  
President Secretary Treasurer  
### SECTION 1 - MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY  
### SECTION 2 - UNION RECOGNITION  
### SECTION 3 - UNION SECURITY  
### SECTION 7 - UNION ACTIVITIES  
### SECTION 8 - WORK  
### SECTION 9 - JOB CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
### SECTION 10 - VACATIONS  
### SECTION 11 - HOLIDAYS  
### SECTION 12 - SUNDAY  
### SECTION 13 - UNIFORMS AND LAUNDRY  
### SECTION 14 - GRIEVANCE  
### SECTION 15 - PREVIOUS AND MISCELLANEOUS BENEFITS  
### SECTION 16 - VALIDATING CLAUSE  
### LO  
### AO  
16  
17  
17  
### SECTION 18 - PENSION BENEFIT  
### SECTION 19 - SEVERANCE FUND  
### SECTION 20 - SCHOLARSHIP FUND  
### SECTION 21 - JURY  
### DL  
### SECTION 23 - STREKES AND  
### SECTION 24 - MILITARY  
  
  
  
### SECTION 25 - CHECKOFF 23  
### SECTION 26 - INJURY ON THE JOB  
  
23  
### SECTION 27 - PAST SERVICE CREDIT  
### SECTION 28 - MINIMUMS  
### SECTION 29 - TRAVEL PAY  
### SECTION 31 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT 2D  
### SCHEDULE A - WAGES AND 20  
### SCHEDULE B - VACATION SCHEDULING GUIDELINES. 29  
### SCHEDULE C - SUNDAY WORK GUIDELINES 30  
### SCHEDULE D - GUIDELINES FOR SERVICE CLERKS 32,  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT - HEALTH BENEFITS 33  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT - PENSION BENEFITS 37  
Footnote:  
In the original document pages were numbered improperly. Therefore, your  
book has page 18 followed by page 20. Nothing has been omitted from your  
contract.  
### AGREEMENT  
AGREEMENT made by and between ACME MARKETS, INC., (hereinafter referred to as  
### the “Employer”), and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION LOCAL 1245,  
Little Falls, New Jersey, chartered by United Food and Commercial Workers International Union,  
AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).  
WHEREAS, the Employer and the Union, in the performance of this Agreement, agree not  
to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religious  
creed, national origin, age, sex, Union membership or activities.  
### SECTION 1 - MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY  
A. The authority and responsibility for the management of the business, including but not  
limited to, the planning, direction and control of the working force, shall repose exclusively in the  
Employer and its appointed repres¢ntatives, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.  
B. All rights and powers not expressly restricted or limited by the terms of this Agreement  
shall remain in and exercised, at the sole discretion of the Employer.  
### SECTION 2 - UNION RECOGNITION  
A. The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of  
all employees within the jurisdiction of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local  
1245; and exclude a Store Director, Assistant Store Director I and Assistant Store Director II, and  
a Management Trainee in each store. Also, in the event Acme Markets, Inc. operates a Pharmacy  
Department in any of its stores within the jurisdiction of Local 1245, the Pharmacists will be  
excluded from the Collective Bargaining Unit. However, the Pharmacy Technician classification  
will be included in the Collective Bargaining Unit and the parties will meet to negotiate the terms  
and conditions for this classification.  
B. All work and services connected with or incidental to the handling or selling of all  
merchandise offered for sale to the public in the Empioyer’s retail establishments, covered by this  
Agreement shall be performed only by those employees referred to in the above Paragraph. This  
Agreement shall not be construed as restricting a sales representative from inspecting any and all  
of their merchandise for spoilage or replacement, nor shall it apply to special displays. The  
application of this clause will be held in abeyance pending uniform industry application.  
C. In the event that the Employer contemplates the introduction of major technological  
changes affecting bargaining unit work, advance notice will be given to the Union and as needed,  
parties shall meet and develop a method for implementing such changes.  
### SECTION 3 - UNION SECURITY  
A. All employees shal!, as a condition of employment, become and remain members of the  
Union in good standing, upon the thirty-first (3 1st) day of employment.  
B. The Union shall give written notice to the Employer of the failure of any employee to  
become and remain a member of the Union in good standing, which shall result in the discharge of  
such employee, in accordance with the provisions of the Labor-Management Relations Act of  
1947 as amended.  
Cc, The Union agrees to furnish to the Employer at least one (1) Union Store Card for each of  
the Employer’s stores covered by this Agreement to be displayed on the premises. Such card shall  
remain the property of and shall be surrendered to the Union upon demand.  
D. Written notification shall be given to the Union of all new hires, reinstatements or  
transfers into the bargaining unit.. Such notification shall be given within thirty (30) days of the  
occurrence and shall include name, address, classification, social security number and date of  
event,  
+  
### SECTION 4 - RIGHT OF DISCHARGE  
A. All employees will be subject to a probationary period that shall commence from the first  
(1st) day of active employment. This period shafl consist of sixty (60) days (90 days for new  
stores). Employees shall not accrue seniority rights during this pertod; however, upon successful  
completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be calculated from the date of hire or rehire  
following a break in seniority, whichever js later.  
l. The layoff, discharge or discipline of a probationary employee shall not be subject  
to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.  
B. The Employer shall have the right to discharge any employee for just cause. Upon the  
discharge of any employee for just cause, the Employer shall notify the Union of the date and  
reason for termination as soon as possible.  
Cc. If an employee disputes the discharge the Union will then take the necessary steps to  
determine if such disciplinary action was justified by the Company.  
### SECTION 5 - SENIORITY  
A. The following principles of seniority shall prevail in the matters of promotions,  
demotions, layoffs, and recalls, in conjunction with the ability of the employee to perform the  
work in question. °  
l. Seniority shall be defined as continuous service with the Employer, from the last  
date of employment within the bargaining unit, except as otherwise provided.  
a. In the event of a store closing or a major layoff the parties shall meet to  
develop alternative methods of transferring, reassigning employee classifications, or layoff. The  
purpose of the alternative program will be to reduce the effect of merging seniority in the  
remaining stores.  
Employees hired or promoted to full time will use that full time date as their full  
time seniority date.  
3: Employees hired as full time who have been reduced to part time shall use their  
hire date as their part time seniority date.  
4, Employees hired as part time, then promoted to full time, who have been reduced  
to part time will use their original hire date as their part time seniority date.  
5. Full time employees who have been reinstated to full time from part time shall  
have all their full-time service combined to establish their full time seniority date.  
6. Reduction or layoff of employees shall be within the regular full time/part time  
designation, excluding those employees who are meatcutters or who have been in a classified  
position for more than sixty (60) days. It shall be understood that the least senior full-time  
employees will be offered maximum scheduled part-time hours in lieu of a layoff. Employees  
who are meatcutters or who have been in classified positions for sixty (60) days or less shall be  
subject to bumping by seniority. Upon recall, those full-time employees reduced to the maximum  
part time hours will have their full-time hours restored.  
B. The Union shall receive seniority lists of all employees that will include classified  
positions (as defined in paragraph C5 of this section).  
### C. PROMOTIONS  
l.a. All promotions shall be based on seniority, availability and qualifications.  
Permanent job openings will be posted in all stores for a fourteen (14) day period. Interested  
employees will notify their Store Director within this fourteen (14) day period. An employee may  
be temporarily assigned to fill an open position. A ninety (90) day probation period wiil apply to  
all promotions to classified positions.  
Ib. In the event full time employees are not available to fill an opening in a classified  
position, part time employees wili be given the opportunity to fill the opening. The criteria for the  
selection shall be seniority, availability and qualifications. Once a selection has been made the  
employee shall immediately be upgraded to the full timc position.  
2. Part time employees shall be given preference for full time positions based on  
their seniority, availability and qualifications.  
3, Service clerks shall be promoted to part time when:  
a. They successfully complete checker training.  
b. Or, they have been performing duties outside their  
classification, in accordance with the provisions  
outiined in “Schedule D”.  
3  
4. Full time night crew employees shall be given preference for full time day jobs  
within the District Manager’s territory, based on their availability and qualifications.  
5. Classified positions are defined as Produce Manager, Grocery Manager, Dairy  
Supervisor, Office Coordinator, Deli Manager, Meat Manager, Front End Manager, General  
Merchandise Manager, Bakery Manager, Floral Supervisor, Scan Coordinator, Seafood Manager,  
Evening Front End Manager, Receiver, Frozen Food Supervisor, Person-in-Charge and Night  
Crew Chief.  
6. Employees who leave the bargaining unit to pursue a management position, may  
be re-employed in a position in the bargaining unit, at the current wage rate, provided the  
following applies:  
a. The employee must return to the bargaining unit from management within  
five (5) years. Those who have more than five (5) years out of the bargaining unit may be  
returned based on agreement between the Employer and the Union.  
b. There are no bargaining unit members on layoff or reduction with more  
seniority.  
C. The employee returns to a position based on ability to perform the job.  
d. The employee’s seniority shall include full time continuous service in the  
bargaining unit immediately proceeding their transfer into management, for the purpose of layoffs  
or reductions.  
### D. LAYOFFS  
In the event a classified employee is laid off or replaced, they shall have the right  
to reclaim that or an equivalent position, in accordance with their availability and ability to  
perform the job.  
2. Layoffs and reductions shall be in the inverse order of seniority within the  
bargaining unit; or as provided in paragraph A6 of this Section.  
3. Recall of employees from layoff shall be made in order of seniority, based on  
availability and ability. Employees shall be notified by certified mail and they shal! be required to  
report to work within seventy-two (72) hours (Saturday and Sunday excluded) of attempted  
delivery of such notice. If the employee fails to report to work they shall not be entitled to any  
other consideration under this Section.  
4, Employees laid off and recalled within six (6) months shall retain their seniority  
accrued at the time of layoff. Time not worked shall not be considered in determining any benefits  
or wages under other Sections of this Agreement. Seniority shall terminate after six (6) month's  
absence from work due to non-occupational sickness (twelve (12) months in the case of an  
employee with at least twelve (12) months seniority).  
5. Additionally, seniority shall terminate for the following reasons:  
a. Quit  
Justifiable discharge  
c. Failure to report from an authorized leave of absence  
### SECTION 6 - EMPLOYMENT GUARANTEES  
A. The Employer agrees to employ a minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the  
bargaining unit workers as full time employees. If at any time the full time work force drops  
below twenty-five percent (25%) the Employer agrees to promote existing part time employees  
based on seniority, ability, and availability, to full time employees within thirty (30) days.  
B. Prior to taking layoff action, representatives of the Employer (Operations and Labor  
Relations) and the Union shall meet to ensure proper contract compliance.  
### SECTION 7 - UNION ACTIVITIES  
A, It is agreed that Union duties and activities will not be carried on during hours of work;  
however, this shall not prevent Union officials from entering stores during store hours to satisfy  
themselves that this Agreement is being observed, provided they first make their presence known  
to management.  
B. Bulletin boards may be used by the Union following the approval of any notices by the  
Human Resources Department.  
C. Any member of the Union being elected to permanent office, or as a delegate to any Union  
activity necessitating temporary leave of absence, shall be granted such leave and at the end of the  
term in office or assignment, shall be guaranteed re-employment at the current wage rate as well  
as their former position in their former store, if qualified and the position is available.  
D. Full time Stewards shall be the last to be laid off, subject to their ability to perform the job  
in question. The Union shal! furnish a complete list of Stewards to the Employer on an annual  
basis or as requested.  
E. The Union shall use its best efforts to secure high caliber employees to act as Stewards.  
They shal] be required to conform to the standards and qualifications sct by the Union.  
F. One (1) full time steward per store shall be entitled to a paid leave of five (5) days per  
year, one (1) part time steward per store shall be entitled to a paid leave of up to twenty-four (24)  
hours (three (3) days) per year to attend a seminar or educational program. In any year that this  
leave is not used it may be carried over to the following years of the Agreement, but in no event  
shall the total available leave exceed the total number of paid days leave that would have been  
available during the term of the Agreement. The Union shall provide the Employer with between  
fifteen (15) and thirty (30) days written notice, when possible, of the Stewards who will be  
participating in the seminar or educational program.  
G. Shop Stewards can be transferred only with the written approval of an Officer of the  
Union and an Employer Representative.  
### SECTION 8 - WORK WEEK  
### FULL TIME EMPLOYEES  
A. The workweek for full time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours which may be  
scheduled by the Employer as follows:  
1. Five (5) eight (8) hour days.  
2. Four (4) eight (8) hour days and one (1) eight-hour shift worked  
beyond 7:00p.m., which constitutes one straight time night.  
3. Three (3) eight (8) hour shifts and two (2) flex shifts, consisting of one (1) ten  
(10) hour shift and one (1) six (6) hour shift, or one (1) nine 09) hour shift and one (1) seven (7)  
hour shift to be paid at straight time.  
4. Employees hired or promoted to a full time position after November 19, 1997 can  
be scheduled to work a mid-shift with a start time commencing between the hours of 11:00a.m.  
and 4:00p.m. Employees working on this shift shall not be eligible to receive the night crew  
premium. These employees can be scheduled to work up to five nights beyond 7:00 p.m. at the  
straight time rate.  
5. In order to maintain as many forty (40) hour positions as possible, a flexible work  
shift may be implemented (as defined in “5.a”) for all employees, which shall be by inverse order  
of seniority with new hires being the first (Ist) to be so scheduled. Before this shift is  
implemented a meeting will be held with the appropriate Company and Union representatives.  
a. Five (5) eight (8) hour days or three (3) eight (8) hour days plus two (2)  
flex days on a shift commencing at 12:00 Noon to 4:00 p.m.  
B. The straight time starting times will be between the hours of 6:00 a.m. (5:00 a.m. by  
mutual agreement) and 10:00 a.m.; however, Bakery Department employees hired before  
November 5, 1990, by mutual agreement may start at 4:00 a.m. Bakery Department employees  
hired after November 5, 1990 may be scheduled at 4:00a.m. Employees hired or upgraded to full  
time positions after November 19, 1997 may be scheduled on a straight time starting shift of  
between 11:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., as stated in Paragraph A4.  
C, All time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in one (1) day, with the exception of the one  
(1) ten (10) and one (1) nine (9) hour day referred to in Paragraph A3 of this Section, or forty (40)  
hours in a week shall be deemed overtime and paid for at the overtime rate of time and one half (I-  
1/2T) of the employee’s regular rate of pay.  
1, For full time employees on the payroll as of November 19, 1997, all time worked  
after 7:00 p.m., with the exception of one (1) night each week shall be considered overtime and  
paid for at the overtime rate of time and one half (1-1/2T) the employee’s regular rate of pay, with  
the exceptions as stated in paragraphs A3 and ASa.  
D. l. Employees hired as or promoted to a full time position after December 17, 1987,  
but prior to November 20, 1997, shall have Sunday as part of their work week however, they shall  
not be required to work more than every other Sunday. Employees hired on or after November 20,  
1997 shall have a workweek of Sunday through Saturday and there shall be no limitation on the  
number of Sundays these employees may be required to work, The premium for work performed  
on Sundays shall be as defined under Section 12 - Sunday Work.  
2. Full time employees hired or promoted on or after November 11, 2001 shall be  
paid time and one half (1 1/2t) for all time worked on Sunday if they have worked forty (40) or  
more hours during the period of Monday through Saturday. If they are scheduled for forty (40)  
hours including Sunday, they will be paid the regular Sunday premium for the Sunday hours.  
E. The regular day’s work for all full time employees shall be worked in consecutive hours  
(exclusive of unpaid meal periods). No employee will be requested to work a split shift. A split  
shift is defined as working an unscheduled shift prior to or after an employee’s normally  
scheduled shift in the same day.  
F. Employees who report to work as scheduled wil! be guaranteed the number of hours set  
forth on the posted work schedule. When an employee is called to work on a pre-designated day  
off, they shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours work or pay at the overtime rate of pay.  
If unavailable for work in either case, they will only be paid for actual hours worked.  
G. There must be a minimum of ten (10) hours between the end of one shift and the  
beginning of the next shift. If requested by the employee and the needs of the business permit, an  
employee may work a schedule with a minimum of eight (8) hours between the end of one shift  
and the beginning of another.  
### PART TIME EMPLOYEES  
   
A. Part time employees may be scheduled up to a maximum of thirty-five (35) hours per  
week at the straight time rate, except during the periods of May 15 through September 15 and  
November 15 through the week of January 1, when they may be scheduled up to a maximum of  
forty (40) hours per week at the straight time rate.  
l. Aii part time employees, excluding service clerks, if available, shall be scheduled  
for a minimum of sixteen (16) hours per week and four (4) hours per day. Hours for service clerks  
shalt be equalized within each store based on the employee’s availability.  
2 Available part time hours, beyond the sixteen (16) hour minimum, shall be  
distributed according to seniority, ability, availability and in accordance with the needs of the  
business, except as stated in Section 5,A, 6 (page 3).  
B. Part time employees, when scheduled and instructed to report to work, shall be guaranteed  
four (4) hours of work.  
C. Part time employees temporarily working more than the allotted maximum of thirty-five  
(35) or forty (40) hours shall receive a premium of time and one-half (1-1/2 X) for hours in excess  
of the stated maximums. (Except as outlined in Paragraph A).  
D. Part time employees scheduled for five (5) or more hours per day, unless mutually  
accepted shal! receive an unpaid lunch period of not less than one-half (1/2) hour.  
E. Part time employees and Service Clerks hired after December 17, 1987, shall have Sunday  
as part of their work week; however, they shall not be required to work more than every other  
Sunday. Work performed on these days shall be at the applicable premium.  
F. Part time employees hired prior to November 12, 2001 shall be paid a premium of time  
-and one -half.(1-1/2.X).for hours. worked over eight (8) hours in one (1) day and/or on their sixth  
(6th) day of work in one (1) week, Sunday through Saturday. Part time employees hired after  
November 11, 2001 shall be paid a premium of time and one half (1-1/2 X) for hours worked over  
eight (8) hours in one (1) day and/or on their sixth (6th) straight time day of work in one (1) week.  
### ALL EMPLOYEES  
A. Overtime shall be rotated among qualified employees within their full time/part time  
classification.  
B. All employees will be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period in approximately the middle  
of each four (4) hour shift.  
A The Employer shall post a weekly work schedule for all employees showing their daily  
hours and the pre-designated day off for full time employees. It shall be posted by twelve noon  
Friday of the preceding workweek. Except in the case of emergency beyond the Employer's  
control, including employees’ failure to report to work, full time employees shall receive five (5)  
calendar days’ notice of a change in their pre-designated day off. If such notice is not given and  
they are required to work on this day, they shall be paid at time and one half (1-1/2T), which shall  
not be counted as work within their normally scheduled work week. If an entire store closes  
because of extreme weather conditions or other emergencies, schedules may be adjusted.  
### SECTION 9 - JOB CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE SCALES  
A. Job classifications and minimum wage scales, effective during the term of this Agreement,  
are set forth in Schedule “A”, attached hereto and made a part hereof.  
B. Employees demoted from a department head or meat manager position will realize a  
reduction in pay which would amount to the premium they received for being a department head  
or meat manager.  
   
### SECTION 10 - VACATIONS  
A. The Employer will grant a paid vacation as set forth under this paragraph and subject to  
the conditions under Paragraph B through J of this Section to eligible employees covered by this  
Agreement.  
### TYPES OF VACATION GRANTS  
   
### LENGTH OF CONTINUOUS .  
### ON-THE-JOB SERVICE  
More than six (6) months but  
less than one (1) year on  
May | of the calendar year.  
One (1) year or more but less than  
three (3) years on  
May | of the calendar year.  
Three (3) years or more but  
less than six (6) years on  
the Saturday nearest  
September 30 of the calendar  
year.  
Six (6) years or more but less  
than twelve (12) years on the  
Saturday nearest September  
30 of the calendar year.  
Twelve (12) years or more  
but less than twenty-five  
(25) years on the Saturday  
nearest September 30 of  
the calendar year.  
Twenty-five (25) years or  
more on the Saturday  
nearest September 30 of  
the calendar year.  
### FULL TIME  
### EMPLOYEES  
1/12th of a week’s  
basic straight time  
wage for each full  
month’s service prior  
to May 1*.  
One (1) Week  
Two (2) Weeks  
Three (3) Weeks  
Four (4) Weeks  
Five (5) Weeks  
### PART TIME  
### EMPLOYEES  
### NONE  
The number of weekly  
hours normally worked.  
Twice the number of  
weekly hours  
normally worked.  
Three times the  
number of weekly  
hours normally worked.  
Four times the number  
of weekly hours  
normally worked.  
Five times the number  
of weekly hours  
normally worked.  
Employees hired on or after November 11, 2001 shall receive the following vacation grants:  
### LENGTH OF CONTINUOUS FULL TIME PART TIME  
### ON-THE-JOB SERVICE EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES  
More than six (6) months but 1/12th of a week’s NONE  
less than one (1) year on basic straight time  
May | of the calendar year. wage for each full  
month’s service prior  
to May 1.  
One (1) year or more but One (1) Week The number of weekly  
less than three (3) years on hours normally worked.  
May | of the calendar year.  
Three (3) years or more but . Two.(2) Weeks. -Twice the number of  
less than eight (8) years on weekly hours  
the Saturday nearest normally worked.  
September 30 of the calendar  
year.  
Eight (8) years or more but less than Three (3) Weeks Three times the number of  
fourteen (14) years weekly hours normally  
on the Saturday nearest worked  
September 30 of the calendar  
year.  
Fourteen (14) years or more Four (4) Weeks Four times the number  
on the Saturday nearest of weekly hours  
September 30 of the catendar normally worked.  
year. / J  
je  
B. The annual vacation period will extend from May ! to the following September 30 (closest  
Monday to these dates). Up to two (2) weeks of vacation may be taken at any time during the  
vacation year. (May | - April 30 of the following year.) The third, fourth and fifth weeks of  
vacation may be scheduled based on mutual agreement between the Store Director and the  
employee.  
C. All employees shall upon termination of their employment, be entitled to receive pro-rated  
vacation pay on the basis of one-twelfth (1/12th) of the vacation to which they would have been  
entitled, for each month of active work for which no vacation has been given, except in the case of  
discharge for proven dishonesty.  
“ae  
D. Eligible employees absent from work due to on-the-job (worker’s compensation) injury  
for a cumulative period not to exceed six (6) months within the vacation year will, nevertheless, be  
entitled to their vacation entitlement for that particular vacation year. In the event of absence in  
excess of six (6) months, employees will be entitled to six-twelfths (6/12ths) of the annual  
   
vacation entitlement, plus an additional one-twelfth (1/12th) for each full month actively on the  
job during the vacation year,  
E. Eligible employees absent from work due to non-occupational accident or sickness, for a  
cumulative period not to exceed three (3) months within the vacation year will, nevertheless, be  
entitled to their vacation entitlement for that particular vacation year. In the event of absence in  
excess of three (3) months, employees will be entitled to three-twelfths (3/12ths) of the annual  
vacation entitlement plus an additional one-twelfth (1/12th) for each full month actively on the job  
during the vacation year.  
F, Full time employees whose allotted vacation period includes a paid holiday wiil, at the  
Employer’s option be granted one (1) day’s basic straight time wage or one (1) additional day of  
vacation in addition to the vacation entitlement (prorated for eligible part time employees). The  
day to be taken must come immediately before or after the vacation period.  
G. Employees who work at feast twenty-six (26) weeks per year on an overtime schedule  
(excluding Sunday work) will receive the average overtime hours in their vacation entitlement.  
H. Employees eligible for two (2) weeks vacation may choose to select one (1) week  
vacation in days. Employees with three (3) or more weeks vacation may choose to select two (2)  
weeks in days. Employees must notify the Store Director of such selection when vacation  
schedules are posted. Vacation days may be rescheduled at a later date by mutual agreement,  
provided approximately two (2) weeks’ notice of intent to change such is given. Remaining  
vacation periods will be given in consecutive weeks whenever possible.  
I. Employees entering the United States Armed Forces will be paid their earned pro-rated  
vacation entitlement through the last day of the month of active employment.  
i; Retuming veterans who re-enter the Employer’s service during the year  
immediately preceding the vacation year and within the time set forth in the Universal Military  
Training and Service Act will be paid one-twelfth (1/12th) of the annua! vacation entitlement to  
which they may be entitled under Section A, for each full month on the job during the year  
preceding the vacation year.  
2. For the sole purpose of determining the length of service with the Employer, the  
time spent in the United States Armed Forces immediately following the temporary termination of  
service with the Employer and ending not earlier than the date of the discharge of the individual  
from the United States Armed Forces and not later than ninety (90) days thereafter shall be  
included in calculating the length of continuous on-the-job service required for eligibility for the  
various lengths of vacation entitlement, uniess such period exceeds four (4) years and ninety (90)  
days.  
J. The Employer agrees to follow the vacation scheduling guidelines as outlined in Schedule  
“B”, attached to this Agreement.  
### SECTION 11 - HOLIDAYS  
Al. — Employees with six (6) months of service but less than twelve (12) months of service shal!  
be eligible for the following paid holidays.  
New Year’s Day Thanksgiving Day  
Christmas Day  
2. Employees completing twelve (12) months of service shall be eligible for the  
following paid holidays based on their date of hire:  
### EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO NOVEMBER 11, 2001  
   
New Year’s Day Labor Day  
Memorial Day Presidential Election Day  
Independence Day . Thanksgiving Day  
“Christmas Day Employee’s Birthday  
Anniversary of Employment (see Paragraph C)  
### EMPLOYEES HIRED ON OR AFTER NOVEMBER 11, 2001  
   
New Year’s Day Labor Day  
Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day  
Independence Day Christmas Day  
3. Eligible employees shal! be granted a holiday on the date of their birthday. The  
same eligibility and scheduling requirements that apply to the regular holidays shall apply to the  
employee’s birthday holiday.  
4a. A premium of time and one-half (1-1/2T) shall be paid for all work performed on  
the holidays noted in paragraphs A.1 & A.2, for all eligible employees on the payroll as of  
November 19, 1997. Those who are not eligible shall receive the straight time rate of pay.  
4b. Employees hired after November 19, 1997, in any full or part time position,  
including those employees classified as Service Clerks, the per hour premium for work performed  
on the above noted holidays shall be as follows:  
### PROGRESSION SERVICE CLERKS ALL OTHER EMPLOYEES  
During Probation Straight Time Pay Straight Time Pay  
After Probation $ 1.00 per hour $ 1.00 per hour  
After 36 Months $ 1.00 per hour $ 2.50 per hour  
After 42 Months $ 1.00 per hour $ 3.00 per hour  
5. When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed.  
6. Employees must work their scheduled day before and after the holiday to be  
eligible for holiday pay, unless such absence is due to permission or action by the Employer or in  
the case of a certified illness. If an employee agrees to work on a holiday and does not fulfil! their  
commitment, he/she shall forfeit their holiday pay (except in the case of certified illness).  
B. Part time employees, including Service Clerks, shall be eligible for holiday pay when the  
holiday falls on a day on which they would normally be scheduled to work. Holiday pay shall be  
based on the number of hours which would have been worked on the day of the holiday, except  
part time employees hired on or after November 11, 2001 shall be paid four (4) hours, if eligible.  
The Employer shall not re-arrange the daily or weekly work schedule so as to deprive employees  
of holiday pay or reduce the number of hours regularly worked by reason of the contractual  
requirement for holiday pay.  
1. The holiday workweek for eligible full time employees shall consist of thirty-two  
(32) hours to be worked in four (4) days. All work in excess of thirty-two (32) hours shall be paid  
for at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2t) the straight time rate.  
ze On a voluntary basis only full time employees may work an additional eight (8)  
hours in a holiday week at straight time pay.  
C. Eligible employees hired prior to November 11, 2001 shall be granted a holiday to be  
taken on the anniversary date of their employment. If this day falls on a Sunday, a normally  
scheduled day off, a contractual holiday or during vacation; another day off shall be granted on  
their next scheduled work day or days following the above. The employee must give the Store  
Director two (2) weeks notice of this date, if they do not and work is performed, they shall receive  
straight time pay and an additional day off within two (2) weeks of that day.  
### D. PERSONAL HOLIDAYS  
ia. All full time employees hired prior to December 18, 1987, shall be eligible for  
three (3) personal holidays; one (1) to be scheduled and taken in each four (4) months of the  
calendar year.  
b. All full time employees hired after December 17,1987, shall be eligible for one (1)  
personal holiday following the completion of one (1) year of continuous service and an additional  
two (2) personal holidays following the completion of two (2) years of continuous service, see  
Paragraph D.5 for additional one-half personal holiday entitlement.  
2a. Part time employees hired or promoted prior to December 18, 1987 shall be  
eligible for two (2) personal holidays of four (4) hours each, one (1) to be scheduled and taken in  
each six (6} months of the calendar year.  
b. Part time employees, excluding Service Clerks, hired or promoted after December  
17, 1987 shall be eligible for two (2) personal holidays after the completion of two years of  
continuous service, one (1) to be scheduled and taken in each six (6) months of the calendar year.  
See Paragraph D.5 for additional one-half (1/2) personal day entitlement.  
3, The personal holidays shall be scheduled not less than two (2) weeks in advance  
with the consent of both the Employer and the employee, provided; however, that personal  
holidays may not be scheduled during any week in which one of the holidays listed in Section 11-  
A land A 2 occurs. If the employee has not made his selection by March 1 for the first (1st)  
13  
personal holiday, by July | for the second (2nd) personal holiday and November ! in the case of a  
third (3rd) personal holiday, the Employer shall assign the personal holidays with not less than two  
(2) weeks’ notice.  
4. Payment for the above noted personal holidays for part time employees shall be  
based on the number of hours that would have been worked on the day of the holiday.  
5. All full and part time employees, including Service Clerks, on the payroll  
November 19, 1997 shall be eligible for an additional one-half (1/2) personal holiday per calendar  
year. The half-day personal holiday for full time employees shall be four (4) hours and for part  
time employees, including Service Clerks, it shall be two (2) hours. This personal holiday shall be  
scheduled not less than two (2) weeks in advance with the mutual consent of both the employer  
and the employee, provided, however, that the personal holiday may not be scheduled during any  
week in which one of the holidays listed in Paragraph A of this section occures. If an employee  
has not scheduled and taken this persona! holiday by November 1 of the calendar year then the  
Employer shall assign the personal holiday with less than two (2) weeks notice.  
6. Employees absent for more than thirty (30) days or sixty (60) days in case of an  
occupational injury, shall receive pro-rated portion of their personal holiday entitlement during the  
succeeding calendar year.  
E. If the Employer elects to close its store or stores on any other holiday no employee shall  
suffer a reduction in their pay as a result of this closing.  
### SECTION 12 - SUNDAY WORK  
A. All full time employees hired on or before December 17, 1987 shall be guaranteed work  
on up to two (2) Sundays each month. Beginning January of each year these employees will select  
the option to work either no Sundays, one (1) Sunday or two (2) Sundays a month. When the  
Store Director has recorded all the options from this group of full time employees, the Store  
Director shall then post a Sunday work schedule on a semi-annual basis by December 15 for the  
period January 1 through June 30 and by June 15 for the period July 1 through December 31.  
1. If a Store Director fails to schedule an employee for a Sunday which was on the  
semi-annual schedule, the employee should show up for work as indicated on the semi-annual  
schedule. The employee shall receive pay for the number of hours indicated on the semi-annual  
schedule regardless of whether or not the Store Director allows them to work.  
{  
Z Should the employee fail to work three (3) of their opted Sundays, they shall be  
moved into the rotation of “Available Sunday Work” as outlined in Paragraph 3 below.  
3. The remainder of Sunday hours to be filled sha!l denote “Available Sunday  
Work”. Available Sunday work shall be rotated among all full time and part time employees,  
including these full time employees hired after December 17, 1987. Should the Employer be  
unable to staff the store adequately, employees shall be required to work in the inverse order of  
seniority, on a rotating basis and based on their ability to perform the work needed.  
B. Sunday work shall be compensated for as noted below (and in Schedule “C”).  
] The Sunday premium for employees in a full time position on November 8, 1997  
is time and one-half (1-1/2X).  
2, The Sunday premium for part time employees, except Service Clerks, hired as of  
November 8, 1997 is time and one-half (1-1/2X) for Sunday hours.  
3. The Sunday premium for regular full and part time employees hired or promoted  
on or after November 9, 1997 shall be as follows:  
### PROGRESSION PREMIUM  
Start to 18 Months None  
18 Months to 36 Months $ 1.00 per hour  
36 Months to 42 Months $ 2.50 per hour  
42 Months to 48 months $ 3.00 per hour  
After 48 months *  
* Effective November 11, 2001, full time employees hired or promoted on or after November 9,  
1997, shall receive time and one half (1 % X) time for all hours worked on Sunday following  
forty-eight (48) months of full time service. The half (1/2 X) time premium rate per hour will be  
frozen at that rate and used for all future Sunday work.  
4a. All Service Clerks on the payroll on November 8, 1997 shall receive a premium of  
one dollar ($ 1.00) per hour for all work performed on Sunday.  
4b. All Service Clerks hired on or after November 9, 1997 shall receive a premium of  
one dollar ($ 1.00) per hour for work performed on Sunday after they have completed eighteen  
(18) months of continuous employment with Acme Markets.  
C. The assignment of Sunday work will not be adversely affected as a result of the changes to  
the Sunday premium and or the incorporation of Sunday as part of the workweek.  
### SECTION 13 - UNIFORMS AND LAUNDRY  
A, The Employer shalt furnish all required protective aprons. The employees shall launder  
any drip-dry uniforms, which are supplied. The Union agrees that its members shall look  
presentable to the public, and to the best of their ability, work for the interest of increasing sales at  
all times.  
B. Rain appare! will be furnished when employees are required to work out of doors in the  
rainy weather.  
C. One pair of waterproof gloves will be supplied to employees regularly assigned to work  
frozen food, which will be replaced when necessary due to wear and tear.  
D. The Employer will not change the current shirt/blouse or trouser/skirt requirements for the  
life of this Agreement.  
15  
### SECTION 14 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
A. If a disagreement should arise during the period of this Agreement concerning the  
interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement it shall be handled in accordance with  
the following procedures:  
1. Except in cases of proven mistakes in application of wage rates, a grievance to be  
considered, must be brought to the attention of the Employer and the Union representatives within  
thirty (30) days of its occurrence. If not filed within the time limits specified there shall be no  
right of appeal by any party.  
Z. Upon the Union notifying the Employer of a grievance, the Employer shall have  
two weeks (14 calendar days) thereafter to complete their investigation and notify the Union of  
their position. This step shall be handled between the appointed Union representative and the  
Employer representative.  
3. If the matter remains unsettled then it shall be discussed within ten (10) days  
thereafter, between the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union and a representative of the Labor  
Relations Department.  
4, If the matter continues to be unsettled then it shall be discussed within ten (10)  
days thereafter between the Vice President of Labor Relations and the President of the Union.  
5. If the matter remains unsettled either party may submit the issue to Arbitration.  
6. The issue shall be submitted to the American Arbitration Association or the State  
Board of Mediation for the appointment of an Arbitrator, in accordance with its rules.  
B. The Arbitrator shall not have the authority to decide questions involving the jurisdiction of  
any Local or the Intemational or which may in any way affect a change, modify or amend any of  
the provisions of this Agreement.  
C., The expenses of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally by both parties.  
### LL  
D. All employees shall be entitled to have a Union Representative present upon scheduled  
questioning by the Employer’s Security Personnel.  
### SECTION 15 - PREVIOUS AND MISCELLANEOUS BENEFITS  
A. Except as otherwise directed by the Trustees of the Health, Pension or Severance Funds,  
there shall be no change or reduction of benefits, terms or conditions which members had  
previously enjoyed by reason of any provisions of this Agreement.  
16  
B. Where employees are required to have health certificates, whether by law or by the  
Employer, they shal! be reasonably reimbursed for the expense of obtaining such certificates by  
the Employer.  
### SECTION 16 - VALIDATING CLAUSE  
The provisions of this Agreement are deemed to be separable to the extent that if and  
when a court of competent jurisdiction adjudges any provision of this Agreement to be in conflict  
with any law, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this  
Agreement but such remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect; provided further  
that in the event any provision or provisions are so declared to be in conflict with a law, both  
parties shall meet immediately for the purpose of renegotiating an agreement on. provisions so  
invalidated.  
### SECTION 17 - HEALTH BENEFITS  
The provisions of this Section - Health Benefits are set forth in a Memorandum of  
Agreement - Health Benefits, dated November 11, 2001, attached hereto and made a part hereof.  
Employees shall become eligible for benefits as follows:  
### l. EMPLOYEES IN A FULL TIME POSITION PRIOR TO  
NOVEMBER 9, 1997:  
a. Six (6) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Doctor’s Office Visits, Prescription and  
Weilness Benefits, for member only.  
b. Twelve (12) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Hospitalization, Major Medical, Life Insurance,  
Wellness Benefits, Prescription, Contact Lenses,  
for member only.  
c. Twenty-four (24) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Hospitalization, Major Medical, Wellness Benefits,  
Contact Lenses and Prescription for member and dependent(s).  
Life Insurance, for member only.  
### 2. FULL TIME EMPLOYEES - HIRED OR PROMOTED ON OR AFTER  
NOVEMBER 9, 1997;  
a. Six (6) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Doctor’s Office Visits, Prescription  
and Wellness Benefits, for member only.  
b. Twenty-four (24) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Hospitalization, Major Medical,  
17  
### UFCW LOCAL 1245 N. JERSEY CLERKS  
November 11, 2001 through November 12, 2005  
Wellness Benefits, Prescription, Contact Lenses,  
Life Insurance, for member only.  
C. Thirty-six (36) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Hospitalization, Major Medical,  
Wellness Benefits, Prescription, Contact Lenses,  
for member and dependent(s). Life Insurance, for  
member only.  
### 3, PART TIME EMPLOYEES  
a. Twelve (12) months of continuous service:  
Dental and Vision, for member only.  
b. Eighteen (18) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Wellness Benefits, for member only.  
C. Twenty-four (24) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Wellness Benefits, Prescription, Mammogram Screening,  
Doctor Office Visits, Annual Physical,  
Contact Lenses and Diabetes Strips, for member only.  
d. Ten (10) years of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision and Prescription ~ For Member and Dependents.  
Wellness Benefits, Mammogram Screening, Doctor Office Visits, Annual  
Physical, Contact Lenses and Diabetes Strips, for member only.  
Continuous service accumulated as a part time employee shall be applied toward  
eligibility for full time health benefits upon promotion on the basis of one (1) month of full time  
credit for two (2) months of part time service. .:  
### 4, SERVICE CLERKS  
a. Twelve (12) months of continuous service:  
Dental and Vision for member only.  
b. Twenty-four (24) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision and Wellness Benefits, for member only.  
c. Thirty-six (36) months of continuous service:  
Dental, Vision, Wellness Benefits, Prescription, Mammogram Screening,  
Doctor Office Visits, Annual Physical, Contact Lenses, Diabetes Strips,  
for member only.  
Continuous service accumulated as a Service Clerk shali be applied toward the  
eligibility for part time health benefits upon promotion to a regular part time position.  
5. Booklets detailing benefits and eligibility requirements will be sent by the Health  
Fund Office at the time employees are eligible for benefits.  
18  
### SECTION 18 - PENSION BENEFITS  
A. The Employer agrees to make contributions to the Local 1245 Labor-Management Pension  
Fund in the amounts as set forth in the “Pension Fund Memorandum of Agreement”, dated  
November 11, 2001 and attached hereto and made a part hereof.  
### }. BENEFIT LEVELS:  
a. Full Time Employees (excluding Service Clerks)  
The monthly benefit level for each  
year of credited service is thirty-five dollars ($35.00).  
b. Part Time Employees (excluding Service Clerks)  
The monthly benefit level for each year of credited  
service is seventeen dolfars and fifty cents ($17.50).  
c. Effective January 1, 2004 the Full Time benefit level will increase to forty  
dollars ($40.00) and the Part Time benefit level will increase to twenty  
dollars ($20.00)  
### 2. ELIGIBILITY:  
a Full Time employees hired prior to November 11, 2001, excluding  
Service Clerks, begin accumulating pension credits the first (14) of the month  
following completion of thirty (30) days of continuous full time employment.  
b. Full Time employees hired on or after November 11, 2001, excluding  
Service Clerks, begin accumulating pension credits the first (1*) of the month  
following completion of six (6) months of continuous full time employment.  
c Part Time employees hired prior to November 11, 2001, excluding  
Service Clerks, begin accumulating pension credits the first of the month  
following completion of six (6) months of continuous part time employment.  
d. Part Time employees hired on or after November 11, 2001, excluding  
Service Clerks, begin accumulating pension credits the first (1*) of the month  
following completion of twelve (12) months of continuous part time employment.  
e. Service Clerks are not eligible for pension benefits.  
B. Booklets detailing benefits and eligibility requirements will be sent by the Pension Fund  
office at the time Employees are eligible for benefits.  
20  
### SECTION 19 - SEVERANCE FUND  
The Employer agrees to contribute to the Local 1245 Severance Fund (hereinafter referred  
to as the “Fund”) in the amounts defined below:  
### A. RATES OF CONTRIBUTIONS  
l. For employees hired prior to November 9, 1997:  
the sum of twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour for all straight time  
hours worked.  
2. For employees hired on or after November 9, 1997:  
the sum of fifteen cents ($.15) per hour for all straight time hours  
worked.  
---ELIGIBILITY-FOR CONTRIBUTIONS-—-- - -—- --- - -- ome woes  
l. Contributions for all employees, including Service Clerks, shall  
be made the first full payro!i week following the completion of  
twenty-four (24) months of continuous employment.  
Cc. The Fund shall be governed by a Board of Trustees consisting of equal numbers to be  
designated by the Employer and the Union.  
D. It is understood and agreed that the Fund referred to herein shall be as such as will  
continuously qualify for approval by the Internal Revenue Service so as to allow the Employer an  
income tax deduction for the contributions paid thereunder,  
E. It is agreed that all questions involving severance not specifically set forth herein shal! be  
determined by the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust governing the Plan.  
F, Eligibility for collection of severance benefits is as follows:  
1. Employees who are eligible to participate in the Severance Fund may collect their  
severance benefits following termination, except for gross misconduct of their employment,  
provided the Employer has made twelve (12) monthly contributions on his/her behalf. The Union  
and Employer will determine the application of the gross misconduct language on a case by case  
basis.  
2. Booklets detailing benefits and eligibilty requirements will be sent by the  
Severance Fund office at the time Employees are eligible for benefits.  
21  
### SECTION 20 - SCHOLARSHIP FUND  
A. On January | of each calendar year the Employer agrees to contribute six thousand  
($6,000.00) dollars per year to the UFCW Local 1245 Scholarship Fund. The names of recipients  
of benefits from the Scholarship Fund will be provided to the Employer. It is understood and  
agreed that the Fund referred to herein shall be as such as will continuously qualify for approval  
by the Internal Revenue Service, so as to allow the Employer an income tax deduction for the  
contributions paid thereunder.  
B. The scholarship recipients or employed parent(s) of the recipients will be granted a paid  
day off (eight (8) hours for full time or four (4) hours for part time employees) the day of the  
awards ceremony.  
### SECTION 21 - JURY DUTY  
Employees actually serving on juries shall receive the difference between their straight  
time weekly basic pay and the amount received while on Jury Duty. Time spent on Jury Duty  
each week will count as hours worked. No employee shall be required to serve on Jury Duty and  
work a weekly total of hours in excess of the regularly scheduled hours.  
### SECTION 22 - FUNERAL LEAVE  
A. In the case of death of a spouse or child of any employee requiring their absence from  
regular assignments, they shall be granted a paid leave of absence of up to five (5) consecutive  
calendar days.  
B. In the case of a death of a parent, grandchild, brother, sister, mother-in-law or father-in-  
law, they shall be granted a paid leave of absence of up to three (3) consecutive calendar days.  
C. In the case of a death of a grandparent they shall be granted a paid leave of absence for up  
to one (1) day.  
D. If the employees request it they may be granted an additional two (2) days off without pay  
for a death in the immediate family (as outlined above). If the time off falls within the leave  
period, they will be reimbursed for that portion of time for which they were normally scheduled to  
work, but under no circumstances shall the application of this clause result in an increase in the  
basic weekly pay.  
### SECTION 23 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS  
The Union and the Employer agree that there shall be no strikes, boycotts, lockouts,  
stoppages of work, slowdowns or any interference in the operation of the Employer by employees  
during the life of this Agreement. In the event differences or disputes should arise between the  
Employer and the Union or its members as to the meaning and application of this Agreement, or  
otherwise, or should any disagreement of any kind arise there shall be no suspension or cessation  
of work by the employees because of such difference.  
22  
### SECTION 24 - MILITARY SERVICE  
Any employees returning from military service shal! be put back on the regular job they  
had when leaving for military service or its equivalent subject to the provisions of the Universal  
Military Training and Service Act.  
### SECTION 25 - CHECKOFF  
A. It is agreed upon written authorization from the employee that political action committee  
deductions will be checked off on a weekly basis until such time that an employee notifies the  
Union in writing that they would like such deductions discontinued.  
B. The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all  
claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that might arise out of or by reason of action  
taken or not taken in respect to any deductions made pursuant to the provisions of this Section.  
### SECTION 26 - INJURY ON THE JOB  
Any employee injured on the job that requires medical attention and is unable to return to  
work shall be paid in full for that day.  
### SECTION 27 - PAST SERVICE CREDIT  
A. The Employer shall grant previous experience credit towards establishing wage rates only  
for full and part time employees who were previously employed with Acme Markets, Inc. Their  
rate shall be based on their actual experience according to the schedule of rates. The credit shall  
be granted provided they apply within two (2) years of acquiring the experience for full time and  
within one (1) year of acquiring the experience for part time employees.  
B. Credit for previous experience towards establishing wage rates only, for employees  
previously employed by a chain grocery store other than Acme Markets, Inc. will be reviewed.  
The credit shal! be granted provided they apply within two (2) years of acquiring the experience  
for full time and within one (1) year of acquiring the experience for part time employees. For part  
time the credit will be granted based on one (1) month credit for each two (2) months of previous  
experience.  
### SECTION 28 - MINIMUMS  
The terms and conditions of this Agreement are intended to cover minimums in wages and  
other employee benefits only. The Employer may place superior wages and other employee  
benefits in effect and may reduce the same to the minimum herein described without the consent  
of the Union.  
23  
### SECTION 29 - TRAVEL PAY  
A. 1, If an employee is temporarily transferred (less than 30 days), and the transfer does  
not exceed thirty (30) miles one way, notice to the Union is not required.  
2. When a temporary transfer exceeds thirty (30) miles one way, the Union must be  
notified and the employee shall receive twenty ($.20) cents per mile for all miles over thirty (30)  
miles, plus toll expenses when appropriate receipts are submitted.  
B. The Employer agrees to the best of its ability, to limit permanent transfers within a  
reasonable radius of the employee’s home store and to notify the Union at least one (1) week in  
advance of transfers exceeding twenty (20) miles.  
C. 1. It is understood that floaters will be limited to six (6) employees classified as  
floaters at any given time. It is further understood that employees can only be classified as  
floaters as a condition of employment upon hiring, in lieu of layoff or while in training for a  
higher classified position.  
Z; If additional meat floaters are needed to avoid lay-offs, the Union and Employer  
will meet and discuss.  
### SECTION 30 - ZIPPER  
Parties agree that they have had an opportunity and an unlimited right to make demands  
and proposals with respect to all proper subjects of collective bargaining and that all such subjects  
have been discussed and negotiated upon and this Agreement contains the result of such  
discussions and negotiations.  
24  
### SECTION 31 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in effect from November 11, 2001, to and including  
November 12, 2005, and shall be self renewing for yearly periods thereafter until and unless either  
party notifies the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to November 12, 2005, or the  
expiration date of any subsequent yearly period of its desire to change, modify or terminate this  
Agreement. Pending the conclusion of negotiations, neither party shall change their terms or  
conditions existing under this Agreement.  
fr  
### SIGNED THIS DAY OF 2003  
      
### THE COMPANY:  
25  
The following lump sum payments and wage increases shall apply to full and part time  
employees, including Service Clerks, who have reached the top of their wage progression as of  
November 10, 2001. When an employee hired on or after November | 1, 2001 reaches the top of  
his/her wage progression, they shall be eligible to receive the next scheduled Lump Sum Payment  
and/or Wage Increases.  
### SCHEDULE A - WAGES AND PREMIUMS  
### A, LUMP SUM PAYMENTS:  
Full Time  
Part Time  
Service Clerk  
November 11, 2001  
### B. WAGE INCREASES:  
Full Time  
Part Time  
Service Clerk  
The following wage progressions shall be effective for the term of this Agreement.  
April 13, 2003  
$ 0.50 per hour  
$ 0.30 per hour  
$ 0.15 per hour  
### C. FULL TIME EMPLOYEES:  
Full Time-hired or promoted after November 9,1997:  
After 30 Days  
After 6 Months  
After 12 Months  
After 24 Months  
After 36 Months  
After 48 Months  
After 60 Months  
l  
weekly pay rate:  
November 11, 2001  
April 13, 2003  
June 13, 2004  
August 14, 2005  
$1,225.00  
$ 400.00  
$ 200.00  
June 13, 2004  
   
$ 0.50 per hour  
$ 0.30 per hour  
$ 0.15 per hour  
$ 6.00  
6.50  
7.00 .  
8.00  
9.00  
10.00  
11.00  
$40.00  
$45.00  
$50.00  
$55.00  
26  
November 17, 2002  
$ 500.00  
$ 100.00  
August 14, 2005  
$ 0.625 per hour  
$ 0.400 per hour  
$ 0.250 per hour  
Where designated, the Full Time Produce Manager and the Full Time Grocery  
Manager shall receive the following weekly premium, which is in addition to their applicable  
a Where designated, the fulltime Dairy Supervisor, Office Coordinator, Deli  
Manager, Front End Manager, General Merchandise Manager and Bakery Manager shall receive  
a fifteen dollar ($15.00) weekly premium, which is in addition to their applicable weekly pay rate.  
In stores that regularly schedule and/or work employees in the following assignments thirty (30)  
hours or more weekly, the full or part time employee working such assignment for the thirty (30)  
or more hours shall receive a twenty cent ($.20) per hour premium for all hours worked in that  
assignment: Floral Supervisor, Scan Coordinator, Seafood Manager, Evening Front End  
Manager, Receiver and Frozen Food Supervisor.  
The Person-in-Charge in stores that regularly schedule and/or work employees as PICs for thirty  
(30) or more hours a week shall receive an additional twenty cent ($.20) per hour premium for all  
hours worked in that assignment.  
### D. MEAT DEPARTMENT  
   
   
11-11-01 4-13-03 6-13-04 8-14-05 ... -  
Meat Manager  
$ 20.00 $ 20.50 $ 21.00 $ 21.625  
800.00 820.00 $40.00 865.00  
Full & Part Time Meatcutter — hired or upgraded on or after  
November 9, 1997:  
After 6 Months $ 12.00  
After 12 Months 13.00  
After 24 Months 14.00  
After 36 Months 15.00  
After 48 Months 16.00  
27  
Full and Part Time Meat Cutter Apprentice - hired or upgraded on  
or after November 9, 1997  
Start $ 6.25  
After 12 Months 7.00  
After 18 Months hats  
After 24 Months 8.50  
After 30 Months 9.50  
After 36 Months , 10.50  
After 48 Months 12.00  
### E, NIGHT CREW  
1, A premium of seventy-five cents ($.75) per hour will be paid for hours worked on  
the night shift. (Night Shift is defined as hours worked between 10:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M.)  
2. An additional premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour will be paid to a Night Crew  
Chief assigned by the Employer to be in charge of and responsible for the work of the night crew  
provided there are at least three (3) employees on the night crew.  
F. Employees who relieve in higher rated job classification for a period of three (3) or more  
consecutive days shall receive the contract rate specified for the higher classification  
involved for the entire period of such relief.  
G. Part Time hired or upgraded on or after November 8,.1997  
After Sixty Days $ 5.30  
After 6 Months 5.45  
After 12 Months 5.60  
After 18 Months 5.80  
After 24 Months 6.00  
After 30 Months 6.15  
After 36 Months 6.50  
After 42 Months 7.00  
After 48 Months 7.50  
### SERVICE CLERKS  
H. Hired on or after November 8, 1997:  
After 60 Days $ 5.25  
After 6 Months 5.35  
After 12 Months 5.45  
After 18 Months 5.65  
After 24 Months 6.00  
After 36 Months 6.25  
28  
### SCHEDULE B - VACATION SCHEDULING GUIDELINES  
The following items should serve as a guideline in the event there is some uncertainty in  
the vacation scheduling process.  
1. Vacations should be arranged so as not to interfere with the efficient operation of  
the market.  
2. The number of employees permitted to schedule vacations each week will be  
limited by the Store Director.  
3. The Store Director’s vacations will not be included in the number of vacations  
allowed per week.  
4. A week may be closed after restrictions are met.  
5. No more than two (2) weeks may be scheduled consecutively.  
6. Selection will be on a seniority basis. The Store Director should approach the  
most senior employee first and the other employees in seniority order. Any employee wishing to  
put off their selection will relinquish their right to that week.  
7. Changes to the vacation schedule after the selection process is finalized may be  
made only by mutual written consent of the Store Director and the employee(s) involved.  
8. Vacation weeks may not be borrowed or carried over from one vacation year to  
another.  
### VACATION SELECTION PERIOD  
The selection process for vacations to be taken between May of the current year and Apri!  
of the following year is as follows:  
Opens on: February |  
Closes on: March 31  
Review & Approved by  
Store Director April Ist through April 15th  
Vacation schedule posted April 16th  
Vacation wages will be paid to employees on the Friday prior to the scheduled vacation  
week providing request is submitted according to the above guidelines.  
29  
   
### SCHEDULE C ~ SUNDAY WORK GUIDELINES  
### I, FULL TIME EMPLOYEES  
A. Full time employees hired s of December 17, 1987:  
Sunday is not part of the work week and is paid at a premium of time and one half (1-  
1/2 X) the hourly rate of pay for all hours worked in accordance with provisions noted under  
Sunday work.  
B. Full time employees hired after December 17, 1987 and before November 9,  
1997:  
Sunday is part of the work week and is paid at a premium of time and one half (1-  
1/2T) the hourly rate of pay for all hours worked in accordance with provisions noted under  
Sunday work. These full time employees are not required to work more than every other  
Sunday. |  
Cc. Full time employees hired or upgraded to full time on or after November 9,  
1997:  
Sunday is part of the workweek and is paid for in accordance with the premium  
specified in Section 12 — Sunday Work (Paragraph B3).  
D. Employees promoted from part time to full time prior to November 9, 1997:  
Effective November 11, 2001, employee is paid a premium of time and one half (1-1/2  
T) the hourly rate of pay for all hours worked.  
### I. PART TIME EMPLOYEES  
A, Part time employees hired as of December 17, 1987:  
Sunday is not part of their work week and is paid at a premium of time and one half  
(1-1/2X) the hourly rate of pay for all hours worked in accordance with provisions noted  
under Sunday work.  
   
B. Part time employees hired after December 17  
1997:  
Sunday is part of their work week and is paid a premium of time and one half (1-1/2t)  
the hourly rate of pay for all hours worked, in accordance with the provisions noted under  
Section 12- Sunday Work. These part time employees are not required to work more than  
every other Sunday.  
C. Part time employees hired or upgraded on or after November 9.1997:  
Sunday is part of their workweek and is paid for in accordance with the premiums  
30  
noted under Section 12 - Sunday Work.  
### iil. SERVICE CLERKS  
A. Service Clerks hired prior to November 9, 1997:  
Sunday is part of their work week and is paid for at the $1.00 per hour premium. Service  
Clerks shall not be required to work more than every other Sunday.  
B. Service Clerks hired on or after November 9, 1997:  
Sunday is part of their work week and is paid for at the premiums noted under Section 12 -  
Sunday Work.  
3i  
### SCHEDULE “D”  
### GUIDELINES FOR SERVICE CLERKS  
1. Service Clerk duties may include bagging, carts, cleaning and parcel pickups only.  
2. Upon the completion of checker training, Service Clerks shall be promoted to regular part  
time clerk.  
3. Continuous service accumulated as a Service Clerk shall be applied toward eligibility for  
contractual benefits when promoted to a regular part time clerk.  
4, Violation of Provisions:  
a.  
First violation within a store; the Union will have the right to issue a  
written warning.  
Second violation within the same store; the Union will have the right  
to grieve for the difference in pay between the part time clerk and  
Service Clerk rates.  
Third violation within the same store; the Union will have the right to  
eliminate the Service Clerk position and all Service Clerks in that  
particular store will be promoted to regular part time clerk.  
32  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT - HEALTH BENEFITS  
### ELIGIBILITY AND CONTRIBUTIONS  
### BETWEEN  
### ACME MARKETS, INC.  
### AND  
### UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION  
LOCAL 1245  
This Memorandum of Agreement dated November 1}, 2001, confirms the understanding  
reached between the parties regarding Section 17 - Health Benefits - and shall be construed as part  
of the Agreement between the parties which is written for the period November 11, 2001 to and  
including November 12, 2005.  
### A. FULL TIME EMPLOYEES  
   
—_ 1. Effective December 1, 2001, the Employer agrees to contribute monthly  
to the Local 1245 Health Fund the amount outlined below, once the employee has completed the  
required continuous length of service:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 6 Months $ 121.00  
After 24 Months 182.00  
After 36 Months 334.00  
2. For full time employees, except Service Clerks, contributions are required  
by the Employer and benefits will be provided by the UFCW Local 1245 Health Fund on the first  
(Ist) of the month following the completion of the continuous length of service requirements in  
Paragraph 1.  
3, All newly hired full time employees who are current fuil time participants  
‘nthe Local 1245 Health Fund, shall have contributions made on their behalf commencing the first  
(ist) of the month following employment.  
### B. PART TIME EMPLOYEES  
   
l. Effective December 1, 2001, the Employer agrees to contribute monthly to the  
Loca! 1245 Health Fund the amount outlined below, once the employee has completed the  
required continuous fength of service:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 12 Months $ 43.00  
After 18 Months $ 54.00  
After 24 Months $ 88.00  
33  
After 10 Years $ 109.00  
2. For part time employees, except Service Clerks, contributions are required by the  
Employer and benefits will be provided by the UFCW Local 1245 Health Fund on the first (1st) of  
the month following the completion of the continuous length of service requirements in Paragraph  
Bl.  
3. Continuous service accumulated as a part time clerk shall be applied toward  
eligibility for full time health benefits upon promotion, on the basis of one (1) month of full time  
credit for two (2) months part time service.  
### C. SERVICE CLERKS  
l. Effective December 1, 2001, the Employer agrees to make the following  
contributions based on continuous length of service:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 12 Months $ 43.00  
After 24 Months $ 54.00  
After 36 Months $ 88.00  
2. For Service Clerks, contributions are required by the Employer and benefits will  
be provided by the UFCW Local 1245 Health Fund on the first (1st) of the month following the  
completion of the continuous length of service requirements in Paragraph Cl.  
3. Continuous service accumulated as a Service Clerk shall be applied toward  
eligibility for part time health benefits upon promotion.  
D. Effective December 1, 2002, the Employer agrees to increase the monthly contribution  
rate to the Local 1245 Health Fund for eligible employees to:  
### FULL TIME EMPLOYEES:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 6 Months $ 157.00  
After 24 Months $ 237.00  
After 36 Months $ 435.00  
### PART TIME EMPLOYEES:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 12 Months $ 56.00  
After 18 Months $ 71.00  
After 24 Months $ 114.00  
After 10 Years $ 142.00  
### SERVICE CLERKS:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
34  
After 12 Months $ 56.00  
After 24 Months $ 71.00  
After 36 Months $ 114.00  
E. Effective December 1, 2003, the Employer agrees to increase the monthly contribution  
rate to the Local 1245 Health Fund to:  
### FULL TIME EMPLOYEES:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 6 Months $ 189.00  
After 24 Months $ 284.00  
After 36 Months $ $22.00  
### PART TIME EMPLOYEES:  
### SERVICE |  
After {2 Months $ 68.00  
After 18 Months . $ 85.00  
After 24 Months $ 137.00  
After 10 Years $ 170.00  
### SERVICE CLERKS:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 12 Months $ 68.00  
After 24 Months $ 85.00  
After 36 Months $ 137.00  
F. Effective December 1, 2004, the Employer agrees to increase the monthly contribution  
rate to the Local 1245 Health Fund to:  
### FULL TIME EMPLOYEES:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 6 Months $ 227.00  
After 24 Months $ 341.00  
After 36 Months $ 626.00  
### PART TIME EMPLOYEES:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 12 Months $ 81.00  
After 18 Months $ 102.00  
After 24 Months $ 165.00  
After 10 Years $ 204.00  
35  
### SERVICE CLERKS:  
### LENGTH OF SERVICE CONTRIBUTION  
After 12 Months $ 81.00  
After 24 Months $ 102.00  
After 36 Months $ 165.00  
G. If the Trustees of the Local 1245 Health Fund determine the full amount of the above  
MOBs are not needed to provide benefits and maintain an acceptable reserve, the Trustees may  
reduce the MOB amount.  
H. It is agreed that all matters not specifically set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement  
shall be determined by the provisions of the Trust Agreement governing the Local 1245 Health  
Fund.  
=  
SIGNED THIS J day of 2003.  
### FOR THE EMPLOYER: FO UNION:  
### ACME MARKETS, INC. UFCW LOCAL 1245, AF  
     
   
   
   
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT -— PENSION BENEFITS  
### ELIGIBILITY AND CONTRIBUTIONS  
### BETWEEN  
### ACME MARKETS, INC.  
### AND  
### UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION  
LOCAL 1245  
This Memorandum of Agreement dated November 11, 2001, confirms the understanding  
reached between the parties regarding Section 18 - PENSION BENEFITS - and shall be construed  
as part of the Agreement between the parties which is written for the period November 11, 2001 to  
and including November 12, 2005.  
### |. FULLTIMEEMPLOYEES: - -- - - mm  
a. For Employees hired prior to November 11, 2001, the Employer agrees to  
contribute to the Local 1245 Labor Management Pension Fund the sum of one hundred  
twelve dollars and fifty cents ($112.50) per month for each regular full time employee,  
except Service Clerks, who is active during the first week of the month and who has  
completed thirty (30) days of continuous active employment.  
b. For Employees hired on or after November 11, 2001, the Employer  
agrees to contribute to the Local 1245 Labor Management Pension Fund the sum of one  
hundred twelve dollars and fifty cents ($112.50) per month for each regular full time  
employee, except Service Clerks, who is active during the first week of the month and  
who has completed six (6) months of continuous active employment.  
c. Effective January 1, 2004 the Employer agrees to increase the monthly  
contribution rate for eligible full time employees to one hundred twenty nine dollars and  
eighty cents ($129.80).  
### PART TIME EMPLOYEES:  
a. For hired prior to November 11, 2001, the Employer agrees to  
contribute to the Local 1245 Labor Management Pension Fund the sum of twenty-two  
dollars and fifty cents ($22.50) per month for each regular part time employee, except  
Service Clerks, who is active during the first (Ist) week of the month and who has  
completed six (6) months of continuous part time active employment.  
b. For Employees hired on or after November 11, 2001, the Employer agrees to  
contribute to the Local 1245 Labor Management Pension Fund the sum of twenty-two  
dollars and fifty cents ($22.50) per month for each regular part time employee, except  
Service Clerks, who is active during the first (Ist) week of the month and who has  
completed twelve (12) months of continuous part time active employment.  
37  
c. Effective January 1, 2004 the Employer agrees to increase the monthly  
contribution rate for eligible part time employees to fifty nine dollars and seventy cents ($ 59.70).  
Ill. The provisions of this PENSION BENEFIT - Memorandum of Agreement does not apply  
to Service Clerks. However, continuous service accumulated as a Service Clerk shall be applied  
toward eligibility for Pension benefits upon a promotion to a full or part time position.  
IV. It is agreed that all matters not specifically set forth in this Memorandum of  
Agreement shall be determined by the provisions of the Trust Agreement governing the Local  
1245 Labor-Management Pension Fund.  
p—  
### SIGNED THIS DAY OF 2003.  
   
### FOR THE EMPLOYER. FOR THE UNION:  
### ACME MARKETS, INC, UFCW LOCAL 1245, AFL-CIO  
38  
### LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING  
### BY AND BETWEEN  
### ACME MARKETS, INC.  
### AND  
### UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION  
LOCAL 1245  
This Memorandum of Agreement dated November 11, 2001, confirms the understanding  
reached between the parties resulting in the contract between Acme Markets, Inc. and United Food  
and Commercial Workers Union Local 1245 effective November 11, 200! to and including  
November 12, 2005.  
### A. JOINT LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE  
The Union will select four committee persons to meet with the Director of Store  
or District Manager, the Director of Human. Resources and. two. Directors to:  
address issues mutually understood to be of a serious nature not necessarily within the scope of the  
Collective Bargaining Agreement. Issues will be referred to the President of Local 1245 and the  
Vice President of Labor Relations who will schedule a meeting of the committee following their  
mutual review and agreement on the relevance of the subject.  
### B. LANGUAGE SIMPLIFICATION  
In accordance with the intent of the parties to reduce formalities the !anguage of this  
Collective Bargaining Agreement has been simplified. This simplification however was  
undertaken for the purposes of making the Agreement more easily read and understandable and  
was not intended to change the meaning of the language. Therefore, with the exception of that  
language which was changed as a result of newly negotiated terms which shall be interpreted as  
stated where a dispute arises over otherwise simplified language, the language set forth in the  
replaced agreement may be referred to for purposes of interpretation.  
Cc. Pursuant to the contract Minimums Clause (Section 28), the Employer will make changes  
for all meat cutters as follows: 1) a Monday through Saturday forty (40) hour work week and 2)  
time and one-half (1 1/2T) pay on Sundays. The Employer wil! notify the Union if it plans to  
revert to the contractual provisions for the above provisions.  
Dz. If the Employer wishes to introduce merit-based bonuses in addition to the negotiated  
wages and wage increases for Department Heads, the Company will notify the Union prior to  
introduction.  
39  
E. The parties have agreed that during the term of this Agreement the Employer may  
establish part time classifications for: Dairy Supervisor, Office Coordinator, Deli Manager, Front  
End Manager, General Merchandise Manager. However, these classifications shall not be  
implemented until the parties have met and have agreed upon the terms, conditions and premiums  
for these positions.  
fre  
### SIGNED THIS DAY OF 2003  
### FOR THE EMPLOYER: FOR THE UNION:  
### ACME MARKETS, INC. UFCW LOCAL 1245 AFL-CIO  
   
   
yg yy  
er rary ay ss hy  
40  
   
   
### - NOTES -  
### LOCAL 1245 MEMBERS!  
THis Contract Is Oncy As STRONG As You Make It.  
Don’t Let It Be By ANYONE:  
To Do So Coutp REsuLT IN THE Loss OF WaGes Or  
### BENEFITS THAT TOOK THOUSANDS OF  
Union MemsBers Many Years To Achieve!  
   
/-  
ae aN  
### UNITED F OOD, -AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS  
UNION, | AFL: clo  
   
### VINCENT J. DEVitoS : JR.  
ete, SG  
### PRESIDENT 9 --SECRETARY- I REASURER  
### LocaL UNION HEALTH FUND PENSION FUND  
### OFFICE OFFICE OFFICE  
973-256-8480 ( 973-299-6700 : 973-299-6700  
 