Sey Slax  
| , 260 ee.  
### HIGHWAY AND COMMERCIAL EXCAVATION AGREEMENT  
by and between  
### THE MARYLAND HEAVY AND HIGHWAY  
### CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION, INC.  
And  
### LOCALS NO. 37 and 37R OF THE INTERNATIONAL UNION  
### OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, AFL-CIO  
April 1, 2005 - March 31, 2008  
o pages  
### HIGHWAY AND COMMERCIAL EXCAVATION AGREEMENT  
THIS AGREEMENT, effective the 1“ day of April, 2005, is entered into by and between The  
Maryland Heavy and Highway Contractors Association, Inc., as agent for the employers who  
have authorized said association to represent them for purposes of collective bargaining  
(hereinafter jointly referred to as the “Employer” or, “Contractor”) and Locals No. 37 and 37R of  
the International Union of Operating Engineers, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the  
‘Union”). The term “employee” or “operating engineer” shall mean an individual employed by  
an employer covered by this Agreement who is performing work covered by this Agreement.  
### ARTICLE I  
### JURISDICTION  
Section 1. Territorial Jurisdiction: This Agreement shall cover all work defined in Section 3 of  
this Article performed by the Employer on all job sites except Brandon Shores, Bethlehem Steel  
and sites covered by project agreements, special agreement or national agreements within the  
State of Maryland, excluding Washington, Allegheny, Garrett, Charles, Montgomery, St. Mary’s  
and Prince Georges counties and the Eastern Shore counties of Maryland.  
Section 2. Work Covered by the Highway and Commercial Excavation Agreement: The  
provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all housing, sewer and utilities, paving, site clearance  
and demolition work, site preparation work, excavation, grading, all snow removal work, and  
highway construction work (defined as constructing substantially in its entirety, or an addition or  
repair to, highways, bridges, elevated highways, grade separations, abutments, retaining walls,  
viaducts, right-of-way clearance operations in connection with highway construction work,  
maintenance and repair at the job sites of all equipment, vehicles and other facilities used in  
connection with serving the above mentioned work on the job site, including any structure or  
operation which is an integral part of a contract thereof, excluding steel superstructures, bridges,  
and tunnels over and under the Chesapeake Bay, the Potomac River, the Patuxent River, the  
Susquehanna River from its mouth to the. Conowingo Dam, and the Patapsco River from its  
mouth to all points within Baltimore City) that is contracted for, or let by, the Maryland  
Department of Transportation, the counties of the State of Maryland, the City of Baltimore, the  
Federal Government, or private entities.  
Section 3. Craft Jurisdiction: The craft jurisdiction claimed by the Union includes all persons  
engaged in supervising, controlling, erecting, dismantling and repairing, operating or assisting in  
operating, erecting, dismantling, or repairing of all hoisting and portable machines, all  
refrigerating machines or units and engines used on open and heavy construction work; all skid  
loaders and pallet jacks; all hoisting and portable machines and engines used in or upon  
wrecking, digging, boring, building and erecting foundations, buildings, tunnels, subways, dams,  
reservoirs, disposal plants, bridges, railroads, streets (paving and repair), road building  
construction (including grading and repair), sewers, water, gas and oil lines, allotment  
development construction, harbor and river dredging, the construction and repair of all docks,  
wharves, piers, shipyards and seawalls, all sand, gravel and stone pits; quarries and material  
yards (permanent and temporary) , sand, rock and gravel screening machines; motor generators  
(when used for welding and cutting or for converting or transforming electric currents,  
irrespective of their motive power) ; all machines used to sweep, clean and remove debris and  
snow from streets and roads; all mine hoists, telphers, grab buckets, pumps, well-points, siphons,  
pulsometers, generators, concrete mixers of 2-bag capacity and over, concrete pumps of all sizes  
and capacities, stone crushers, air compressors, plant air, all water-test and blasthold drilling  
machines; all sandblasting and other machines and boilers used in the cleansing and washing of  
buildings; all boilers (irrespective of size) used for furnishing temporary heat on buildings under  
2  
construction, or for the heating of material, or heating water, or furnishing steam for the  
operation of all machines, engines, and other appurtenances herein specified; all locomotive,  
tractor and truck type cranes; all derricks, boom hoists (of all descriptions and capacities), and  
automatic hoists; house and all elevators (permanent and temporary) used for hoisting building  
material or lowering debris or carrying workmen from floor to floor in buildings under  
construction and repair; all street rollers, steam and other motive power shovels; all LeTormeau  
and other types of scoops, pull shovels, mucking machines, draglines, and cableways; and all  
clamshell and orange peel buckets when used in connection with any machines or with derrick or  
boom hoists for excavating, handling, storing, loading or unloading materials, all land and  
floating pile drivers, floating derrick barges and boats, floating and self-propelled dredges and  
rock drilling plants, all dinkey and standard locomotives, derrick cars, tractors and all tractor  
propelled machinery, all power and elevator graders, scarifiers, bulldozers, Barber Green loaders,  
all trenching and ditching machines, all mechanical hoe type machines, back fillers and  
conveyors, all cranes, derricks, machines, engines and boilers used in asphalt and concrete  
mixing plants and all other machines and all other engines (irrespective of motive power) used  
on building construction work or in the loading, unloading or storage of commodities at/or in  
terminals. Trucks on and off road — Articulating Trucks.  
Section 4. Resolution of Jurisdictional Disputes: In the event of a jurisdictional dispute with any  
other union or unions, the dispute shall be submitted to and resolved by the Impartial  
Jurisdictional Disputes Board for the Construction Industry or its successor. There shall be no  
stoppage of work or slowdown of work as a result of a jurisdictional dispute and the parties agree  
to be bound by the rules, decisions or awards of the Disputes Board or its successor.  
### ARTICLE II  
### UNION SECURITY  
Section 1. Union Membership: It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the  
employer engaged in construction work covered by this Agreement who are members of the  
Union on the execution date of this Agreement shall remain members, and all such employees  
who are not members of the union on the execution date of this Agreement or who are hired on  
or after its execution date shall, after the seventh (7") day following the execution date of this  
Agreement or the beginning of their employment, whichever is later, become and remain  
members in the Union. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees of the  
Employer who are not engaged in construction work but who perform work covered by this  
Agreement who are members of the Union on the execution date of this Agreement shall remain  
members of the Union and all such employees who are not members of the Union on the  
execution date of this Agreement or who are hired on or after its execution date shall, after the  
thirtieth day following the execution date of this Agreement or the beginning of their  
employment, whichever is later become and remain members in the Union. For the purpose of  
this Section 1, “union membership” shall mean that an employee tenders the periodic dues and  
initiation fees uniformly required by the Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining  
membership in the Union to the extent required by law. For the purpose of this Section 1, and  
this Section 1 only, all employees employed by employers covered by this Agreement shall have  
their date of employment determined by the date they were first employed by any such employer.  
Section 2. Dues Deduction: In accordance with the terms of an individual and voluntary written  
authorization for check-off of membership dues in form permitted by the provisions of Section  
302 of the Labor Management Relations Act, as amended, the Employer agrees to deduct once  
each week from the wages of each employee covered by this Agreement, who signs said  
authorization, dues, initiation fees and/or assessments levied by the Union in accordance with its  
Constitution and Bylaws. The Union shall notify the Employer of the amount of the dues,  
initiation fees and/or assessments or any change therein during the term of this Agreement. The  
a  
  
amount deducted shall be remitted to the Union monthly by the 15" day of the month following  
the month in which the required amount is deducted, together, with a statement setting forth the  
name and hours worked of each employee from whose wages the deduction is made.  
Section 3.9(a) Language Following a demand by the Local Union for recognition as the Section  
9(a) majority collective bargaining representative, the Employer recognizes the Local Union as  
the Section 9{a) majority collective bargaining representative for all employees performing unit  
work based upon a showing by the Local Union or an offer by the Local Union to show evidence  
that a majority of the employees authorize the Local Union to represent them in collective  
bargaining.  
### ARTICLE II  
### FAVORED NATIONS  
Section 1. More Favorable Conditions: In the event the Union enters into any agreement with  
other employers or other employer associations who are engaged in the same business as the  
Employer signatory to this Agreement within the territorial scope of this Agreement as  
previously defined herein that has terms more favorable to such employers or employer  
associations than are afforded to the members of the Employer signatory to this Agreement, then  
such more favorable provisions shall be deemed incorporated into this Agreement as of the date  
of the adoption in such other agreements, and any provisions herein inconsistent therewith shall  
be deemed to be canceled as of the same date. This provision shall not affect the nghts of any  
employee, the Employer or the Union under a canceled inconsistent provision which may have  
accrued prior to the date of its cancellation. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Union  
from establishing special project conditions on a special project basis so long as a designated  
representative of the employer is notified of such conditions and such conditions are extended to  
all members of the Employer.  
Section 2. Determination of More Favorable Conditions: In order to enable the Employer to  
determine whether more favorable terms have been granted by the Union to any employer or  
association of employers competing with the Employer or its members within the territorial  
scope of this Agreement, the Union agrees that if it executes an agreement with a competitor of  
the Employer, it will immediately furnish a designated representative of the Employer with a full  
and true copy of such agreement.  
### ARTICLE IV  
### MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
Section 1. Except as otherwise restricted, modified or limited by the provisions of this  
Agreement, all rights and functions pertaining to the conduct and management of the Employer’s  
business are vested exclusively in the Employer.  
### ARTICLE V  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
Section 1. On any site of construction, alteration, or repair of a building or structure, the  
Employer shall not subcontract out any work which is covered by this Agreement to any person,  
firm or corporation which will not allow the use of members of the Union to perform such work.  
It is the intention of the Employer and the Union that this clause shall be interpreted to conform  
to the rulings of the NLRB with respect to contracting and subcontracting clauses allowed under  
the proviso to Section 8 (e) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended. This  
clause shall be suspended during the pendency of any administrative or legal proceedings in  
which its invalidity is asserted. If, as a result of legislative, administrative or judicial action,  
stronger restrictions on the rights of Employers to contract and subcontract become permissible,  
this clause shall be renegotiated for the purpose of adequate replacement. If such negotiations  
shall not result in a mutually satisfactory agreement, either the Employer or the Union shall be  
permitted to take legal or economic recourse against the other.  
### ARTICLE VI  
### NON-DISCRIMINATION  
Section 1. The Employer and Union agree they will not, either jointly or individually,  
discriminate in regard to hire, tenure, promotion or other terms or conditions of employment  
against any individual on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, marital  
status, veteran status, or physical or mental disability to the extent required by law.  
### ARTICLE VII  
### MANNING OF SERVICE UNITS  
Section 1. Definition of Service Units: The following units shall be classified as service-units:  
a. Air compressors  
b. Welding machines  
c. Pumps  
d. Space heaters  
Section 2. Service Unit Ratings: For the purpose of manning requirement, the service unit rating  
system shall be as follows:  
a. Air compressors cubic feet per minute  
b. Welding machines amperes.  
c. Pumps - factory specifications in inches—one inch to be rated the same as 100 CFM on  
compressors  
or 100 amperes on welding machines.  
d. Space heaters - BTU’s in excess of 500,000.  
Section 3. Manning Requirements: The following manning requirements shall apply to service  
units:  
a. Air Compressors - One (1) Operating Engineer shall be employed on air compressors  
when either the total CFM exceeds 500 or three (3) machines are used.  
b. Welding Machines — An Operating Engineer shall be employed on welding machines  
when either the total amperes exceed 500 or three (3) machines are used.  
c. Pumps — An operating Engineer shall be employed on water pumps (excluding jet  
pumps) when either the total factory specifications in inches exceed five (5) or three  
(3) pumps are used.  
o  
d. Space heaters — An Operating Engineer shall be employed on space heaters when the  
total BTU’s exceed 500,000 and shall be allowed to operate eight (8) units.  
Section 4. Combination Operations: When a combination of pumps, compressors, or welding  
machines are used, an Operating Engineer shall be employed when either the total service unit  
rating system exceeds 500 or three (3) machines are used. On service unit equipment a mechanic  
may be hired to maintain units up to an amount that can be properly serviced within a reasonable  
distance and time. If the Union and Employer cannot agree on the number of units to be serviced  
by a mechanic, then the service unit ratings shall be enforced. After consultation with the Union,  
some leeway may be granted on the number of units an Employer may operate without the  
services of an Operating Engineer.  
Section 5. Use of Apprentices: Operating Engineer Apprentices shall be used to service and  
maintain service units not requiring the services of an operating engineer. After consultation with  
the union some leeway may be granted on the number and size of service units the employer may  
operate without the service of an operating Engineer Apprentice, but in no event shall this  
maintenance and service work be assigned to any other craft.  
Section 6. Manning Continuous Service Unit Operations Lasting 30 Days: When well-points,  
pumps, or space heaters are being used around the clock on a seven (7) day basis on jobs lasting  
30 days or more, the shift shall be divided among four (4) employees working the “crazy shift” to  
be used in the following manner:  
1° Week  
8-4 4-12 12-8 Off  
Monday A B Cc D  
Tuesday A B C D  
Wednesday D B Cc A  
Thursday D B C A  
Friday D A Cc B  
Saturday D A B C  
Sunday D A B Cc  
2"? Week  
8-4 4-12 12-8 Off  
Monday D A B C  
Tuesday D A B Cc  
Wednesday C A B D  
Thursday C A B D  
Friday C D B A  
Saturday C D A B  
Sunday C D A B  
Ay  
Monday  
Tuesday  
Wednesday  
Thursday  
Friday  
Saturday  
Sunday  
Monday  
Tuesday  
Wednesday  
Thursday  
Friday  
Saturday  
Sunday  
wowmWwane  
  
  
  
3° Week  
4-12  
  
4" Week  
4-12  
### WDWWWaaAQAN  
the sixth day  
### ARTICLE VIII  
### JOB REFERRAL SYSTEM  
bowed  
  
  
Oo  
oO  
  
  
Section 1. All Employers shall engage their employees covered by this Agreement through the  
office of the business representative, who shall refer employees in the classifications requested  
on a nondiscriminatory basis. Any applicant for employment may be rejected by the Employer,  
provided only that the Union shall have the right to discuss with management any such rejection.  
Section 2. The Union shall refer employees in accordance with its hiring regulations which are as  
follows:  
a. The aims and purpose of the hiring regulations are to maintain an open employment list. Each  
list shall be established and maintained on a nondiscriminatory basis, and shall not be based on,  
or in any way affected by, union membership, policies or requirements. The main purposes of the  
referral system is to aid Employers seeking competent, qualified workmen, and to aid such  
workmen in finding employment  
b. Whenever desiring to employ workmen, the Employer shall call the Union or its Agents for  
any such workmen as the Employer may from time to time need, and the Union or its Agents  
shall refer such workmen from the open employment list on the basis of seniority, in the various  
group  
c. The Employer shall give the Union twenty-four (24) hours notice when requiring the services  
of qualified workmen.  
d. The parties to this Agreement shall post, in places where notices to employees and applicants  
for employment are customarily posted, all of the hiring regulations of the International Union of  
Operating Engineers, Local No. 37.  
e. Any workmen on the employment list who makes written claim within ten (10) days, that he  
has been discriminated against in violation of his rights under the Labor Management Relations  
Act of 1947, as amended, by exclusion from a job referral shall have the right to an immediate  
appeal to a Joint Board, consisting of two (2) members of the Union and two (2) members of the  
Employer Group, who shall be respectively designated upon the signing of this Agreement.  
Voting by members of this Joint Board shall be on a unit basis. In case the Joint Board fails to  
reach a unanimous decision, the claim shall be submitted expeditiously to an impartial umpire to  
be agreed upon by the Joint Board herein created, whose decision shall be binding and  
conclusive.  
f. The cost and expense of establishing and maintaining the open list and of the referrals  
therefrom, shall be borne by all of the registrants thereon. In the case of registrants who are not  
members of the Union, their share of such cost and expenses shall not exceed a sum equal to the  
pro rata share of the cost and expenses of operating the employment list and the referrals  
therefrom, which is being borne by members of the Union from the payment of Union dues.  
After seven (7) days from the date of this Agreement, or of the date of registry on the list,  
- whichever is later, registrants shall. incur the obligation of making monthly payments of their  
share of such costs and expenses. Failure of a registrant to make payment of such cost and  
expenses shall constitute grounds for removal from such list, and shall nullify any prior referral  
therefrom.  
g. The Union shall register and refer all applicants for employment on the basis of the priority  
groups listed  
below. Each applicant shall be registered in the highest priority group for which he qualifies.  
The Union shall maintain a separate list for each of the seven Groups set forth, and shall list  
the applicants  
within each Group, in the order in which they register as available for employment.  
i. Separate lists shall be kept for Apprentices on the same basis as for Operating Engineers. No  
employee or applicant may register for employment as an Operating Engineer and an Apprentice  
or oiler at the same time.  
Employers may hire any employee who has been employed by them during a ninety (90) day  
period previous to such hiring, only by notifying registration officials at least 24 hours before,  
giving the names and dates of such hiring.  
k. Key men in classifications agreed to in a pre-job conference shall be dispatched as requested  
in accordance with the agreement reached at the pre-job conference.  
1. Qualifications: The term “qualified” as used herein shall mean a graduate of an Operating  
Engineer AFL-CIO, U.S. Department of labor approved apprenticeship program or  
equivalent qualifications as determined by an apprenticeship committee. Union membership  
or lack thereof shall in no circumstance be a basis for determining qualifications.  
Qualifications to perform the work at issue and to be referred by the Hiring Hall shall be  
realted solely to ability to perform the work requested. In specific situations, where unique  
training on specialized equipment beyond the scope of the general apprenticeship or  
8  
equivalent qualifications are needed, such unique training requirements may be considered  
by the Hiring Hall in referring an individual as “qualified,” or in not referring an individual  
for reason of lack of qualifications.  
### CLASSIFICATIONS  
Group “A”  
All applicants for employment who have worked as operating engineers for the past four (4)  
years, and have been employed for an aggregate time of at least one (1) year during the past four  
(4) years by Employers who are parties to collective bargaining agreements with the Union, not  
containing discriminatory referral provisions, and who have maintained residence for the past  
two (2) years within the geographical area constituting the normal construction labor market as  
hereinafter defined  
Group “B”  
All applicants for employment who have worked as operating engineers for the past four (4)  
years, and have been employed for an aggregate time of at least six (6) months during the past  
four (4) years by Employers who are parties to collective bargaining agreements with the Union,  
not containing discriminatory referral provisions, and who have maintained residence for the past  
six (6) months within the geographical area constituting the normal construction labor market as  
hereinafter defined.  
Group “C”  
All applicants for employment who have worked as operating engineers for the past two (2)  
years, and who have maintained residence for the past year within the geographical area  
constituting the normal construction labor market as hereinafter defined.  
Group “D”  
_All applicants for employment who have worked as operating engineers for one year.  
Group “E”  
All other applicants for employment  
Group “F”  
All applicants for employment who have the qualifications, and have been indentured by the  
Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (JATC) are classified as Registered Apprentices.  
Group “G”  
All applicants for employment who have the qualifications to become an Indentured Registered  
Apprentice prior to indenture date are classified as Training Apprentices (TA).  
### PREFERRED REGISTRATION  
On building work, applicants may register on a preferred list provided they have at least fifteen  
(15) years of employment, or availability for employment, in any one or more classifications  
listed in this section. However, a person who does not meet such requirements but who has a  
physical handicap preventing his employment in any classification except one which is  
9  
“preferred”, and is a Group “All employees may make a “preferred” registration without meeting  
such requirements. An employee making a “preferred” registration shall be ineligible to register,  
and shall not register for work in any classification which is not “preferred”. Equipment  
classified under preferred registration shall be as follows: singled compressor, compressors (2 or  
more), pumps, welding machines (2 to 6), generators, material hoists, one drum or more,  
elevators, well-point systems, heaters (space or concrete) and conveyors.  
### REGISTRATION  
A. Registration in all groups shall be valid for 30 days from date of registration. An employee  
whose name in  
the interim has not been stricken from the list as provided in other sub-sections of this section  
may maintain his place on the list by successive re-registration. Such re-registration must be  
made in person between the 27" and 30" day after the date of original registration or last re-  
registration, as the case may be.  
B. The name of an employee who fails to exercise this nght of re-registration within the time  
provided herein shall be stricken from the appropriate list.  
C. Registration in Group “E” shall be valid for 2 weeks only, and no such registration shall be  
carried over to the succeeding 2 week period.  
D. Any applicant who refuses more than 2 job dispatches shall have his name placed on the  
bottom of the list.  
E. Applicants may have the privilege to refuse jobs of one day’s duration.  
F. Employment of “short duration”, for the purposes of these regulations only, shall mean  
employment which is terminated other than for just cause without such employee’s having  
received from such employment the equivalent of 80 hours of straight time wages.  
### ARTICLE IX  
### INTRODUCTION OF NEW EQUIPMENT  
Section 1. If during the life of this Agreement a new piece of equipment is placed on the market  
by the manufacturer, there shall be a meeting between representatives of the Maryland Heavy  
and Highway contractors Association, Inc. and the Union, for the purpose of negotiating a rate  
for said piece of equipment.  
### ARTICLE X  
### FUNDS  
Section 1. Contributions to Funds: During the term of this Agreement, the Employer agrees to  
pay to the Operating Engineers Local No. 37 Benefit Fund the amounts specified on page 46 of  
this Agreement for each compensable hour of wages paid to each employee covered by this  
Agreement to cover the following funds:  
Health and Welfare  
Pension  
Apprentice Training  
Annuity and Severance  
10  
Section 2. Vacation Deductions: During the term of this Agreement, the Employer agrees to  
deduct the following amount from the wages of each employee covered by this Agreement for  
each compensable hour of wages paid to each employee and pay the amount deducted to the  
Operating Engineers Local No. 37 Benefit Fund to cover vacations.  
Effective Date Amount  
April 1, 2002 $.40  
Section 3. Administration of Funds: The Funds shall be jointly administered by an equal number  
of Employer and Union representatives, in accordance with Agreements and Declaration of  
Trusts which comply with the provisions of Section 302 of the National Labor Relations Act, as  
amended. By executing this Agreement, the Employer accepts terms and provisions of said  
Agreements and Declaration of Trusts of each of the funds covered by this Article as well as any  
amendments heretofore or hereafter made and said Agreements and Declaration of Trusts are  
incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  
Section 4. Target Deductions: During the term of this Agreement, the Employer agrees to  
deduct the following from the wages of each employee covered by this Agreement for each  
compensable hour of wages paid to each employee and pay the amount deducted to the Operating  
Engineers Local No. 37 Benefit Fund to cover Target.  
Effective Date Amount  
Apnil 1, 2002 $.55  
Section 5. Trustees: The Employer further agrees with respect to each Fund covered by this  
Article:  
a. That the Employer Trustees named in said Agreements and Declaration of Trusts, and  
additional Employer Trustees appointed pursuant to the terms of the Agreements and  
Declaration of Trusts, and their successors in Trust, are and shall be its representatives; and  
b. That the employer approves and consents to the appointment of the Trustees of the said  
Funds heretofore appointed and hereafter selected as provided for in said Agreements and  
Declaration of Trusts; and  
c. That the Employer further ratifies, confirms, approves and consents to all of the lawful acts  
of the said Trustees or their duly appointed successors, heretofore or hereafter taken in the  
creation and administration of the said Funds, including, without limitation, the  
establishment, maintenance, modification and termination of plans for each of said Funds, the  
amount and type of benefits which may be provided thereunder, the crediting of service for  
the purpose of determining the benefits of individual employees, and the method of funding  
and paying the benefits; and  
d. That the Employer further ratifies, confirms, approves and consents to all amendments of the  
said Agreements and Declaration of Trusts that may hereafter be made in accordance with the  
provisions of said Agreements and Declaration of Trusts.  
Section 6. Employers from Other Jurisdictions: Employers from jurisdictions other than the  
jurisdiction of Local No. 37 who employ employees covered by this Agreement shall be subject  
to the same contribution provisions of this Agreement, when performing work within the  
geographic jurisdiction of Local No. 37.  
11  
   
Section 7. Posting of Bond: Prior to performing any work under this Agreement, or within ten  
(10) days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Employer shall post and keep in effect for  
the duration of this Agreement, a bond or other form of surety with the Operating Engineers  
Local No. 37 Benefit Fund in an amount to be determined by the Trustees. This posting shall not  
relieve the Employer of the obligation to file regular reports and make regular payments as  
required by any other provision of this Agreement. If the Employer fails to pay the amounts due  
the Funds when said payments are due, the payments shall be paid with proceeds from the bond  
or other form of surety posted with the Fund.  
Section 8. Delinquent Contributors: Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary,  
it is specifically understood that in the event any Employer is delinquent in a payment of  
contributions to the Funds’ covered by this Article, the Union may, in accordance with the rules  
and regulations of the Trustees of such Funds and after the proper official of the Union has given  
72 hours strike notice to the Employer of such delinquency, strike or take such action as may be  
necessary until such delinquent payments are made, and it is further agreed that in the event such  
action is taken, the delinquent Employer shall be responsible to the employees for losses  
resulting therefrom.  
Section 9. Collection of Delinquent Payments: The parties recognize and acknowledge that the  
regular and prompt payment of the payments required to be made under this Article are essential  
and that it would be extremely difficult to fix the actual expense and damage to the Funds, the  
Union and to the employees which would result from the failure of the Employer to make such  
payments in a timely manner. Accordingly, the amount of damage resulting from each such  
failure shall be presumed to be not more than twenty percent (20%) of the amount due, which  
amount shall become due and payable to the Fund, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty,  
upon the day immediately following the date on which such payment became delinquent, and  
shall be in addition to the delinquent payment. In addition, interest at the rate of 18% per annum  
of each monthly delinquency or the maximum permitted by law shall be paid from the date of  
delinquency and the delinquent contributor shall be responsible for reasonable attorney’s fees  
and the cost of any action necessary to recover delinquent payments.  
Section 10. Information to be Furnished: Each Employer shall promptly furnish to the Trustees,  
on demand, any and all necessary records of his employees, concerning the classification of such  
employees, their names, social security numbers, amount of wages paid and hours worked and  
any other payroll records and information that the Trustees may require in connection with  
administering the Trust Fund and for no other purpose. The Trustees or their authorized  
representative may examine the payroll books and records of each employer whenever such  
examination is deemed necessary by the Trustees in connection with proper administration of the  
Trust.  
### ARTICLE XI  
### INDEMNIFICATION  
Section 1. Union Dues: The Union shall accept full liability for, and indemnify and hold the  
Employer harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Employer for union  
dues under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Union assumes full responsibility for the  
disposition of the funds so deducted as soon as they have been remitted by the Employer to the  
Union.  
Section 2. Hiring Hall: The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any  
and al] claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of  
action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with the hiring  
regulations of the International Union of Operating Engineers Local No. 37, including the  
operation of the hiring hall.  
12  
### ARTICLE XII  
### SAVING CLAUSE  
Section 1. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and if any provision of this  
Agreement is held illegal by any board or court of competent jurisdiction, the parties shall not be  
bound by the provision affected by the decision but all other provisions shall continue in full  
force and effect.  
### ARTICLE XIil  
### PAY PRACTICES  
Section 1. Method and Time of Payment: Employees shall be paid in United States currency or  
check, except however, the Employer may deposit an employee’s pay directly in the bank of the  
employee’s choice with the voluntary written authorization of the employee. Payday shall not be  
later than Friday of any one work week, and not later than quitting time on that day. No more  
than three (3) days’ pay shall be withheld in any one work week. Any undue delay in payment of  
wages, or loss of time caused the employees through no fault of their own, shall be paid for by  
the Employer causing the delay, at straight time wages, not to exceed eight (8) hours per day,  
until the wages and full waiting time wages are paid. Employees shall not be required to wait in  
line for their pay, or check in or out, or pick up brass, unless the situation is beyond the  
employer’s control, and only after consultation with the Union.  
Section 2. Discharged or Laid-Off Employees: If any employee is discharged or laid off, he shall  
be paid in full for whatever amount shall be due and owing at that time, and if required to go to  
some other point, or to the office of the Employer, the employee shall be paid for the time  
required to go to such place.  
Section 3. Deductions: All Employers shall deduct, withhold and pay to the proper authorities all  
prevailing taxes on wages and FICA and shall make all contributions for unemployment  
compensation as required by law.  
Section 4. Itemized Information: Each pay envelope or check shall contain information, which  
shall be itemized, as to gross pay, deductions and net pay. Such information shall also be  
furnished to employees electing direct deposit under Section 1 of this Article.  
Section 5. Targeting Program Stickers: The Employer agrees to place a target sticker, to be  
furnished by the Union, on the paycheck of each employee who works on a job subsidized with  
funds from the Operating Engineers Job Targeting Program.  
Section 6. Savings Deduction: Upon receipt of a written authorization signed by the employee,  
the Employer agrees to deduct from the wages of the employee, once a month, the amount  
specified in the written authorization and submit it to any savings plan, bank, retirement plan or  
other similar plan or organization provided such deduction or transmission of funds is not  
prohibited by federal, state or local law, ordinance or regulation. The amounts deducted under  
this Section must be transmitted by the Employer to the designated plan or organization by the  
15" day of the month following the month in which the deduction was made.  
### ARTICLE XIV  
### REPAIRS OF MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT  
Section 1. Assistance in Making Repairs: When an Operating Engineer requires assistance in the  
operation and/or repair of equipment or machinery, only employees covered by this Agreement  
13  
shall be used, with the exception of factory representatives when machine is still under  
manufacturers’ warranty and except when specialized work is required.  
Section 2. Running Repairs: Employees shall do running repair work on machines they operate.  
Crews operating machines shall remain on the job at all times, assisting in making necessary  
repairs. Repair work done on overtime shall be paid for at the overtime rate.  
### ARTICLE XV  
### REPORTS FOR PREVAILING WAGES  
Section 1. Furnishing of Information: In order to maintain Union wages on jobs requiring  
prevailing wages, each contractor must furnish to the Union on the forms supplied by the Union,  
wage information on each job he has in the Union’s jurisdiction each month. In the event an  
Employer fails to comply with this Section the Union, after giving written notice to the  
Employer, shall have the right to strike said Employer. Such a strike shall not commence within  
seven (7) days of receipt of the Union’s written notice by the Employer and may not continue  
after the Employer complies with this Section.  
### ARTICLE XVI  
### OBSERVATION OF SAFETY STANDARDS  
Section 1. All relevant occupational safety and health standards promulgated under the  
Occupational Safety and Health Act and applicable Maryland laws are to be observed by the  
Employer and the employees.  
### ARTICLE XVII  
### PICKET LINES  
Section 1. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement by the Union nor shall it be cause for  
discharge or disciplinary action if an employee covered by this Agreement refused to cross or  
work behind any primary picket line.  
### ARTICLE XVIII  
### GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
Section 1. Resolution of Disputes: In the event of any disagreement, dispute, complaint or  
grievance pertaining to the relations between the Employer and the Union, or employees covered  
by this Agreement, arising during the term of the Agreement, which cannot be settled between  
the Employer and the Union, such matter shall be referred to a joint conference made up of equal  
numbers of representatives appointed by the Union and the Employer. Should the joint  
conference be unable to agree and decide the matter, it shall select a neutral and mutually agreed  
upon party who shall cast the deciding vote, and by whose decision the parties agree to be bound.  
Section 2. No-Strike, No Lockout: There shall be no cessation of work of any kind caused or  
permitted by the Union, and there shall be no lock-outs caused or permitted by the Employer,  
except for failure or refusal of the other party to comply with this Article or Section 1 of Article  
XV. Any such action shall. constitute a willful violation of this Agreement on the part of the  
party causing it.  
Section 3. Time Limits: All complaints or grievances of either party shall be in writing, and shall  
be promptly served upon the other party. No complaint will be considered unless this paragraph  
is complied with inside thirty (30) days from the date of the cause for complaint. Complaints  
   
14  
shall be adjusted as rapidly as possible, in any event, within fifteen (15) days from the date of  
referring same to the other party.  
### ARTICLE XIX  
### GENERAL WORK RULES  
Section 1. Unsafe Equipment: No employee shall be required to work with, nor shall any  
employee be discriminated against for refusing to work with equipment that he considers unsafe  
or under conditions that are unsafe, or fails to comply with all Federal and State laws.  
Section 2. Drinking Water: Drinking water shall be available at all times, and from May 1* to  
October 1* ice water must be available.  
Section 3. Change House: A change house must be provided by the Employer, with heat in  
winter months effective November 1* of each year, on any job on which a Master Mechanic is  
employed.  
Section 4. Payment of Fines: The Employer shall be responsible for the payment of any fine  
imposed, including any loss of wages or other expenses incurred by an employee resulting from  
the movement of any piece of machinery over the highway providing the machine was being  
moved at the direction of the Employer and the employee’s negligence did not contribute to the  
incident leading to the violation.  
Section 5. Winter operations: Employees, operating equipment during winter season, effective  
November Ist of each year, shall be provided with heat, and afforded protection in the form of  
cabs and/or canvas around the operating area. Immediate cessation of work by the affected  
operator only, may follow failure to comply with this provision.  
Section 6. Changing of Machines and Performance of Other Duties: An operator may be required  
to make unlimited changes on the equipment he or she operates. However, the operator shall be  
paid the highest machine rate for the entire day. During nonproductive hours of work, employees  
may be required to perform other job related work duties.  
Section 7. No Restrictions on Production or Use of Equipment: There shall be no limit on  
production of workmen or restriction on the full use of proper tools or equipment, and there shall  
not be any task or piece work. All special tools or equipment required by employees shall be  
furnished by the Employer.  
Section 8. Working on Jobs where Agreement is -Not in Force: Employees shall not be required  
to work on any operation where, nor for any contractor by whom the provisions of this  
Agreement are not in full force.  
Section 9. Changing Jobs: Employees shall complete jobs, or have permission of the Union to  
transfer from one Employer to another. In no event shall one employee replace another employee  
until investigation and approval by the business representative of the Union.  
Section 10. Protection From Weather and Falling Materials: Employees shall be properly  
protected from falling materials and elements of the weather.  
Section 11. Union Insignia: Employees shall have the right to wear the Union’s insignia on their  
hard hats.  
15  
### ARTICLE XX  
### TERMS OF CONDITIONS Of APPRENTICESHIP  
Section 1. The apprentice must work under the supervision of a journeyman engineer, other than  
normal layoff, no apprentice shall be terminated without the knowledge and approval of the  
Training Director. The apprentice’s hours and conditions of employment shall be the same as the  
journeyman under the appropriate Collective Bargaining Agreement. Overtime shall not be  
allowed during the scheduled related instruction classes. Where the Employer or his  
representative assigns an apprentice to work a schedule that is in conflict with the mandatory  
related instruction classes, the apprentice will be allowed the time necessary to attend the class  
including travel to and from, at no loss of pay to the apprentice.  
Section 2. In case of a job related emergency causing an apprentice to miss the scheduled related  
instruction class, the Training Director shall be notified before class by telephone, and a follow  
up letter of explanation, on the employer’s stationery, signed by an officer of the Company.  
Section 3. The Employer shall designate a supervisor from management who shall be responsible  
for the implementation of the Work Process (Appendix D). The Employer, Union, and/or  
Training Director shall assign the journeyman or journeymen who will, through the assistance,  
cooperation and the guidance of the Training Director, apply the Work Process (Appendix D).  
The responsibility for the apprentice engineer on job work experience is a joint labor,  
management responsibility.  
Section 4. The Employer shall see that the apprentice is under the supervision of an Operating  
Engineer Journeyman, whose responsibility it shall be to instruct the apprentice in the actual  
operation of the equipment. The Employer shall provide each apprentice with the necessary  
diversified training experience, including the actual equipment or machines currently manned by  
an Operating Engineer. The Work Process was designed to create the flexibility necessary to  
accomplish this by allowing the Apprentice to multi-train simultaneously regardless of the initial  
hiring assignment.  
Section 5. The Apprenticeship Standards are made part of this Agreement by reference made  
hereto.  
### ARTICLE XXI  
### SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS  
Section 1. This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors,  
administrators, executors, and assigns. In the event of sale, transfer, lease, assignment,  
receivership or bankruptcy proceedings, the purchaser shall be subject to the terms and  
conditions of this Agreement for the life thereof.  
### ARTICLE XXII  
### MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT  
Section 1. There shall be no waiver or exception to the terms of this Agreement, unless made in  
writing and signed by the Business Manager, President and Recording Secretary of the Union,  
and a duly authorized representative of the Employer, and all contractors are notified of the  
change.  
16  
### ARTICLE XXIII  
### PREMIUM PAY AND GUARANTEES  
Section 1. Reporting Pay: Employees who report for work and are prevented from working  
because of conditions beyond their control shall receive two (2) hours pay for reporting unless  
told not to report for work on or before quitting time the previous day. Employees who report for  
work and actually start to work shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay and if they work  
into the afternoon they shall receive eight (8) hours pay.  
Section 2. Adverse Weather Conditions: During the period of January 1 through November 30,  
an employee on equipment that cannot be operated because of adverse weather conditions shall  
be guaranteed thirty (30) hours pay per week, provided that such employee makes himself  
available for work for the full work week. All hours paid during a work week including all  
overtime hours, overtime premiums, all hours worked on Saturdays and, because of contract and  
scheduling requirements imposed by owners, up to eight (8) hours worked on Sundays shall  
count towards the thirty (30) hour guarantee. Hours worked on holidays shall not count towards  
the thirty (30) hour guarantee. During the month of December, an employee subject to this  
Section shall receive two (2) hours pay for reporting to work and if he starts to work shall receive  
Four (4) hours pay and if he works past four hours, shall receive eight (8) hours pay.  
Section 3. Jobs in Excess of Five Days: If, during the period January I through November 30,  
any employee’s job continues for more than five (5) days, he shall be on a thirty (30) hour  
weekly guarantee basis, at the weekly rate for the elapsed working days while his job lasts,  
provided such employee makes himself available for work for the full work week. If rehired  
before the expiration of one week, he shall be compensated for lost time. All hours paid during a  
work week including all overtime hours, overtime premiums, all hours worked on Saturdays and,  
because of contract and scheduling requirements imposed by owners, up to eight (8) hours  
worked on Sundays shall count towards the thirty (30) hour guarantee. Hours worked on holidays  
shall not count towards the thirty (30) hour guarantee. During the month of December, an  
employee subject to this Section shall receive two (2) hours pay for reporting to work and if he  
starts to work shall receive four (4) hours pay and if he works past four hours, shall receive eight  
(8) hours pay.  
Section 4. Sunday Work: All employees ordered to report for work on Sunday, and who shall so  
report, shall be paid four (4) hours at the premium pay in effect on said job.  
Section 5. Long Boom Cranes and Pile Driving Machines: on long boom cranes, including jibs,  
and on pile driving machines with leads, the operator shall receive the following additional pay,  
as specified: 130’ to 169” - $.40 per hour; 170’ to 209” $.60 per hour; 210’ to 249’ - $.80 per  
hour; 250’ to 299’ - $1.00 per hour; and 300’ and over - $1.25 per hour.  
Section 6. All employees shall be paid wages for eight (8) hours on the first and last days of  
employment.  
Section 7. Premium Pay for Working With Hazardous Materials: on work involving the removal  
or cleanup of asbestos, toxic waste or other hazardous materials, employees shall receive ten  
percent (10%) more than the Group I wage rate. The ten percent (10%) rate will be paid only to  
operators who are certified hazardous waste technicians while they are working with hazardous  
waste materials in the designated danger zone when required or specified by the Environmental  
Protection Agency or other appropriate governmental agency.  
17  
### ARTICLE XXIV  
### OVERTIME  
Section 1. Regular Working Hours: Regular working hours shall be from 7:30 am. to 12:00  
noon, from 12:30 p.m. to 4:00 pm.; however, after, consultation with the Union, leeway may be  
granted in starting and stopping times.  
Section 2. Payment_of Overtime: Except where required by wage determinations, project  
agreements, national agreements or targeted jobs, overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and  
one half time after ten (10) hours daily, or forty (40) straight time hours weekly. There shall be  
no pyramiding of overtime. All work performed on Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time and  
one half provided the employee makes himself available and works all available hours during the  
work week in which that Saturday falls. All work performed on Sundays shall be paid at the  
double time rate.  
Section 3. Overtime for Employees Working with other Crafts: Employees working with other  
crafts a minimum of two (2) hours at hours different from those specified in Section 1 of this  
Article shall have the same conditions as to hours of overtime as the crafts with whom they are  
working. This Section shall not apply to employees working on paving and excavation work.  
### ARTICLE XXV  
### EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH OTHER CRAFTS  
Section 1. Rates of Pay: Employees receiving the top (job Grade I) scale of wages, who are  
working on equipment for a minimum of four (4) hours, directly with other skilled employees  
shall receive the same rate of pay for the full day as other employees, if higher than the rate  
provided by this Agreement. This Section shall not apply to employees working on paving and  
excavation work.  
### ARTICLE XXVI  
### SHIFT WORK  
Section 1. Premium Pay: There shall be no premium pay for shift work as such Monday through  
Friday. However, whenever men are employed on shift work, each shift shall be allowed a one  
half hour lunch period without loss of pay.  
### ARTICLE XXVII  
### TRAVEL PAY  
Section 1. No Travel Pay: There shall be no travel pay, subsistence pay or zone rates paid with  
respect to any site which is located within the jurisdiction of the Baltimore Building and  
Construction Trades Council.  
### ARTICLE XXVIII  
### SPECIAL RULES  
Section 1. When employees, covered by this Agreement, report for starting work, they shall be  
entitled to work until the end of their job, and shall not be replaced before the conclusion of their  
job with the company they were dispatched to, except for just cause.  
Section 2. On pile driving operations, when a boiler, a compressor or a hydraulic pump is  
mounted “piggy-back” there shall be two (2) operators employed.  
18  
*  
 ¢€  
:  
  
  
-. '  
'  
5 .  
a.  
.  
>  
= rt  
.  
- t  
é  
  
a  
4  
>  
  
‘  
  
  
be  
  
‘  
«  
  
~ «  
. 4  
& *  
.  
*  
“7  
=}  
wea  
.  
+ .  
1  
= =e  
  
  
- +  
'  
  
.  
+  
-  
*  
ve . .  
.  
  
. '  
1  
. -  
-  
*  
.  
. .  
‘  
~  
~ +  
  
-  
‘ -  
”  
. +  
«  
.  
- + ">  
‘ -  
¥ *  
7m ae  
i) 7  
x  
wre  
‘  
  
4  
  
mee  
”  
  
te  
   
   
   
tay’ at  
. .  
~  
*  
. .  
as  
  
~  
.  
'  
  
  
. .  
.  
. ‘  
. .  
8  
.  
+  
.  
-  
*  
.  
'  
.  
.  
‘ .  
-  
7:  
*,  
+  
i  
.  
-  
'  
+  
>  
ae  
bk  
  
+  
4  
  
  
  
4  
*  
*  
.  
-  
  
+  
.  
.  
‘  
  
.  
4  
.  
bard  
.  
~  
-  
‘ _  
.  
4  
. .  
-*  
.  
. :  
<=  
  
Section 3. Any employees receiving remuneration or benefits greater than those specified in this  
contract, shall receive no loss of pay or benefits because of this contract.  
### ARTICLE XXIX  
### MASTER MECHANICS AND ASSISTANT MASTER MECHANICS  
Section 1. When Master Mechanics Are Required: A Master Mechanic shall be employed  
whenever nine (9) or more employees, including oilers and apprentices when oiling, or five (5) or  
more machines paying the top scale of wages (whichever shall occur first) are employed by the  
Employer on any one project.  
Section 2. When Assistant Master Mechanics Are Required: An Assistant Master Mechanic shall  
be employed when forty (40) or more employees are employed by the Employer on any one  
project. He shall work under the direct supervision of the Master Mechanic, but shall not be  
required to operate any equipment.  
Section 3. Supplying of Master and Master Mechanics and  
Assistant Master Mechanics must be supplied by the Union on a non-discriminatory basis.  
Section 4. Not to Operate Machines: Master Mechanics, Assistant Master Mechanics or  
Supervisors shall not be employed as operators of machines, nor shall operators of machines be  
considered as ‘Master Mechanics, Assistant Master Mechanics, or Supervisors.  
Section 5. Passing of Orders to Employees: Orders of the Employer shall be passed through the,  
Master Mechanic to any employee covered under the terms of this agreement in regards to work  
assignments, lay-offs, dismissals and for the repair and maintenance of all equipment coming  
under the jurisdiction of the Operating Engineers.  
Section 6. Hours of Employment of Master Mechanics: On a job requiring a Master Mechanic,  
the Master Mechanic shall remain on the job at all times, including overtime, Saturdays, Sundays  
and holidays, whenever any other employee working under the terms of this Agreement is  
working, excluding employees engaged in the operation of space heaters, pumps or well-point  
systems.  
Section 7. Pay Rate of Master Mechanics: A Master Mechanic shall be paid $1.00 per hour more  
than the highest paid employee working under his direction.  
Section 8. Pay Rate of Assistant Master Mechanics: An Assistant Master Mechanic shall be paid  
$.50 per hour more than the highest paid employee under the direction of the Master Mechanic.  
### ARTICLE XXX  
### SNOW REMOVAL .  
Section 1. Compensation of Employees Performing Snow Removal Work: If an employee is  
called out to perform snow removal work within four (4) hours of the conclusion of his regularly  
scheduled work day, he will be compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1 ’4) times his  
straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) during the day. If an  
employee is called out to perform snow removal work more than four (4) hours after the  
conclusion of his regularly scheduled work day or if an employee was not scheduled to work, he  
shall be paid at the straight-time hourly rate for the first eight (8) hours of snow removal work  
and at the rate of one and one-half times (1 4) the straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked  
in excess -of eight (8) hours.  
19  
### ARTICLE  
### HOLIDAYS  
Section 1. Qualification for Holiday Pay: To qualify for holiday pay, an employee must work  
three (3) days in the work week in which the holiday occurs. if the Employer requests an  
employee to work on the day before or the next work day after a holiday, and the employee does  
not work on those days as requested, the employee shall not be entitled to holiday pay, provided  
that if the employee reports for. work as requested and 1s not permitted to start work, he shall not  
‘be disqualified from receiving holiday |  
Section 2. Holidays: The following days, or days observed as such, are to be paid holidays, and  
work performed on these days shall be paid for at the double time rate: New Year’s Day,  
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. Work  
shall not be performed on the above days, except in an emergency, or with the permission of the  
- Union. If one of the above holidays occurs on a. Saturday, it will be observed the preceding  
Friday. If one of the. above holidays occurs on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following  
Monday. . "  
### ARTICLE XXXII :  
### TERMINATION AND RENEWAL OF HIGHWAY AGREEMENT  
Section 1. This Agreement shall be operative and effective April 1, 2005, and shall continue in  
full force and effect through March 31, 2008, and from year to year thereafter, unless prior notice  
to negotiate a new contract is given, not less than ninety (90) days prior to March 31, 2008. It is  
expressly agreed by all employers bound under the terms’ of this Agreement, that any notice  
required to be given under this Section shall be served upon: the Maryland Heavy and Highway  
Contractors Association, Inc., and the service of said notice shall operate as individual notice to  
each and every employer-member of said employer association, and likewise, shall serve as  
notice'to each and every independent, employer who is a signatory hereto. Nothing in this Article  
shall bind the employer association as to giving notice to non-members or the independent  
employers.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereunto set their hands  
and seals this day of A)Ppye 7, _,2005.  
### For: INTERNATIONAL UNION of OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL NO. 37  
TZUN Banna Hany  
   
  
### “For: MARYLAND HEAVY AND BIGHWAY CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION,  
_ INC, oN TN  
Ola  
       
  
### ACCEPTANCE OF HIGHWAY AND COMMERCIAL EXCAVATION AGREEMENT  
### BY EMPLOYER WHICH HAS NOT AUTHORIZED THE MARYLAND HEAVY AND  
### | HIGHWAY CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION, INC. TO REPRESENT IT  
The undersigned Employer accepts each and every provision of the foregoing HIGHWAY. AND  
COMMERCIAL EXCAVATION AGREEMENT between Maryland Heavy and Highway  
Contractors Association, Inc, and Locals No. 37 and 37R of the Intemational Union of  
Engineers, AFL-CIO, effective from Apnl 1, 2005, to and including March 31, 2008, and adopts  
‘said AGREEMENT and each and every one of its provisions as its own AGREEMENT with  
Locals No. 37 and 37R of the International Union of Operating Engineers, AFL-CIO.  
Whenever the term “Employer” or “Employers” is used in said AGREEMENT said term’ shall  
include the undersigned Employer.  
### NAME OF EMPLOYER:  
### ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER:  
### SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICER:  
   
### DATE:  
### ACCEPTED BY LOCALS NO. 37 AND 37R OF THE INTERNATIONAL UNION OF _  
### OPERATING ENGINEERS, AFL-CIO.  
### SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICER:  
### DATE  
22  
Baltimore Highway & Commercial Excavation Agreement  
Classifications & Wages Beginning April 1, 2005  
GROUP IA *A (see note)  
Cranes, Gradalls, Graders, Long and Ultra High Reach Excavators, Excavators  
(over 120,000 Ibs.).  
   
Effective Increase Hourly Rate Fringe Total Package  
4/1/2005 $1.00 $21.50 $8.90 $30.40  
4/1/2006 $1.25 Open Open $31.65  
4/1/2007 $1.25 Open Open $32.90  
GROUP I *A+B+C (see note)  
Excavators (other than 120,000 Ibs. and Mini Excavators), Boom Trucks,  
Challenger Type Equipment, Bull Dozers (regardless of sizes), Batch Plants,  
John Deere and Case Type Loader Backhoes (regardless of size), Front End  
Loaders (1 % Yards and over), Batch Plants, Concrete Mixing Plants, Concrete  
Pavers, Curb and Gutter Machines, Concrete Pumps, Drill Rigs, Hoists,  
Standard Gauge Locomotive, Sub-Grader, Trenching Machine, Scrapers  
(regardless of size), Tunnel Mucking Machines, Compactor with Attachments,  
Milling Machines, Repair Mechanics and Welders and all Rental Equipment  
(except that equipment listed in Group 1A) re gardless of type or size when the  
Contractor rents the equipment to a customer and the Contractor’s employees  
operates the equipment for the customer.  
   
Effective Increase Hourly Rate Fringe Total Package  
4/1/2005 $1.00 $20.50 $8.90 $29.40  
4/1/2005 $1.25 Open Open $30.65  
4/1/2005 $1.25 Open Open $31.90  
22  
GROUP II * C (see note)  
Fuel/Grease Truck, Power Roller, Mini-Excavators, Skid Steer (with  
attachments), Asphalt Spreader, Guard Rail Post Pounder, Con crete Mixer (with  
slip), Concrete Spreader, Ditch Witch Type Trencher, Narrow Gauge Locomotive,  
Stone Crusher, Stone Spreader, Trucks (on and off road), Snooper Truck, Bull  
Float, Power Sweepers, Front End Loaders (1 Yard and under), and Articulating  
Trucks.  
Effective Increase Hourly Rate Fringe Total Package  
4/1/2005 $1.00 $19.60 $8.90 $28.50  
4/1/2006 $1.25 Open Open $29.75  
4/1/2007 $1.25 Open Open $31.00  
GROUP III * C (see note)  
Compressors, Conveyors, Fireman, Grout Pump, High-lift, Fork Lifts, Light  
Plants, Mighty Midget with Compressor, Space Heaters, Welding Machines, Well -  
Drill, Well-Point Systems, and all Oilers.  
   
Effective Increase Hourly Rate Fringe Total Package  
4/1/2005 $1.00 $17.54 $8.90 $26.44  
4/1/2006 $1.25 Open Open $27.69  
4/1/2007 $1.25 Open Open $28.94  
In years 2 and 3 the Union reserves the right to allocate the increase monies to  
where needed after a ratification vote by the membership.  
Increases April 1, 2005 April 1, 2006 April 1, 2007  
$1.50 $1.25 $1.25  
23  
Employer Contributions  
Effective April 1,2005 April 1, 2006 April 1, 2007  
Health & Welfare $5.00 Open Open  
Pension $2.50 $2.50 $2.50  
Training $0.40 $0.40 $0.40  
Annuity $1.00 $1.00 $1.00  
$8.90  
Employee Deductions  
Effective April 1, 2005 April 1, 2006 April 1, 2007  
Union Dues $0.47 $0.49 $0.52  
Vacation $0.40 $0.40 $0.40  
Bldg. Trades $0.04 $0.04 $0.04  
Target $0.55 $0.55 $0.55  
MCTA $0.02 $0.02 $0.02  
$1.48 $1.49 $1.52  
Apprentice Rates  
Effective April 1, 2005 April 1, 2006 April 1, 2007  
1*. Period $13.98 Open Open  
2"*, Period $16.13 Open Open  
3". Period $17.20 Open Open  
Schedule  
1*, Period 0-1500 hours 65% of Group IA (of Highway Agreement)  
2™ Period 1500-3000 hours 75% of Group IA (of Highway Agreement)  
3, Period 3000-4500 hours 80% of Group IA (of Highway Agreement)  
### *PLEASE NOTE: EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH HAZARDOUS  
### MATERIALS ADD 10% TO GROUP RATE  
24  
   
### *(A) EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH OTHER CRAFTS  
Rates of Pay: Employees receiving (Job Grade IA or I) scale of wages, who are working on  
equipment for a minimum of four (4) hours, directly with other skilled employees, shall receive  
the same rate of pay for the full day as the other skilled employees if the rate is higher than the  
rate provided in the locals Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
### *(B) FOOTAGE RATES FOR LONG BOOM CRANES  
On long boom cranes, including jibs, and on pile driver machines with leads, the operator shall  
receive the following additional pay as specified: 130’ to 169’ ($0.40 per hour), 170’ to 209’  
($.60 per hour), 210’ to 249’ ($.80), 250’ to 299’ ($1.00 per hour), and 300’ and over ($1.25 per  
hour). If an operator is working with skilled crafts receiving higher hourly wages, he shall  
receive the rate of the craft with which he is working.  
### *C PREMIUM PAY FOR WORKING WITH HAZARDOUS MATERIALS  
On work involving the removal or cleanup of asbestos, toxic waste or other hazardous materials,  
employees shall receive ten percent (10%) more than the Group I wage rate. The ten percent  
(10%) rate will be paid only to operators who are certified hazardous waste technicians while  
they are working with hazardous waste materials in the designated danger zone when required or  
specified by the Environmental Protection Agency or other appropriate governmental agency.  
25