K 8427  
(809 wakny  
### LABOR AGREEMENT  
at  
### BETWEEN  
### PAINTING AND DECORATING CONTRACTORS OF  
### AMERICA  
### AND  
### SOUTHWEST REGIONAL  
### COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS and  
### AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS  
### UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND  
### JOINERS OF AMERICA  
   
### FOR THE PERIOD  
July 1, 2001  
Through  
June 30, 2004  
   
   
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### SECTION I  
### SECTION Il  
### SECTION IIE  
### SECTION iV  
### SECTION V  
### SECTION VI  
### SECTION VI  
### SECTION VII  
### SECTION IX  
### SECTION X  
### SECTION XI  
### SECTION  
### SECTION XII  
### SECTION XIV  
### SECTION XV  
### SECTION XVI  
### SECTION XVIt  
### SECTION XVIII  
### SECTION XIX  
### SECTION XX  
### SECTION XXI  
### SECTION XXII  
### APPENDIX A  
### APPENDIX B  
### APPENDIX C  
*  
### APPENDIX E  
### APPENDIX F  
### RECOGNITION ]  
### COVERAGE |  
### SUBCONTRACTING 5  
### APPLICABILITY if  
### WAGE SCALES 7  
### WAGE & FRINGE BENEFIT INCREASES -  
### WAGE RATES  
### FRINGE BENEFIT RATES  
### PLANS & FUNDS ie  
### VACATION SAVINGS PLAN  
### HEALTH & INSURANCE  
### NATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY  
### & APPRENTICESHIP FUNDS  
### PENSION PLAN, APPRENTICESHIP  
### GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION  
### ADMINISTRATION TRUST FUND,  
### CARPENTERS-CONTRATORS  
### COOPERATION COMMITTEE  
### HIRING PROVISIONS 15  
### ZONE PAY. 15  
### HOURS OF WORK. 16  
### HOLIDAYS. 17  
### SHOWUP TIME 18  
### PRE-JOB CONFERENCE. 18  
### PAY MENT OF WAGES. 19  
### UNION REPRESENTATIVES 19  
### NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS/  
### SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 20  
### TOOLS 24  
### WORKING CONDITIONS 21  
### UNION SECURITY. 23  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE. 23  
anes sar Ra 23  
### SURETY BOND 23  
### EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION 24  
### HIRING PROVISIONS. 25  
### WAGE RATES  
### FOR LOCAL 897 JURISDICTION 27  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR  
### RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION. 28  
### LIGHT COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION 29  
### DRUG ABUSE  
### PREVENTION & DETECTION 30  
* There is no Appendix “D" in this contract  
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into this first day of July, 2001, by and betwecn the Painting  
and Decorating Contractors of America on behalf of its members (hereinafter referred to as “the  
Employer") and the Southwest Regional Council of Carpenters and Affiliated Local Unions, United  
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America (hereinafter referred to as “the Union").  
### SECTION I  
### RECOGNITION  
The Employer has satisfied itself that the Union represcnts a majority of Employees perform-  
ing work covered by this Agreement and thereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining repre-  
sentative of all employees of the Employers hereinafter classified over whom the Union has jurisdiction.  
The Union recognizes the Employer as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for their  
respective inembers who have authorized the Employer to represent them. A list of such authorizations has  
been furnished to the Union and the Employer agrees to immediately notify the Union when any authori-  
zations have been canceled or new authorizations have been executed.  
The Agreement shal! bind each and every Employer who has authorized the Association to rep-  
resent them with the same force and effect as if the Agreement were entered in by cach Member individu-  
ally. The Employer shall be and continue to remain liable under this during the term irrespec-  
tive of whether such members shall resign from the Association prior to the expiration date of this  
Agreement and such liability shall be deemed to have survived the termination of such membership and  
remain in force during the term of this Agreement.  
It is the intention of the parties to create a collective bargaining agreement within the meaning  
of Section 9 of the National Labor Relations Act of 1947, as amended, and the unit covered by this  
Agreement is a voluntarily created multi-employer collective bargaining unit.  
Notwithstanding any provision of the Master Labor Agreement or this Agreement, the individ-  
ual employer agrees that upon a showing by the Union or any of its affiliates a majority of the individual  
employer's shop employees, if any, have designated the Union and/or any of its affiliates as their repre-  
sentative for collective bargaining purposes, the individual employer shall recognize the Union and/or its  
affiliates as the collective bargaining representative of its shop employees and shall agree to negotiate all  
wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment appropriate for their shop. Proof of such majority rep-  
resentation shall be established by the submission of authorization cards to a neutral third person who shall  
compare the signatures with appropriate employer records, The individual employer shall fully cooperate  
in such review upon demand by the Union or any of its affiliates. This paragraph does not apply to  
Employers’ storage warehouse or yards.  
### SECTION II  
### COVERAGE  
(a) This Agreement shall provide for the wages, fringe benefits and conditions of employment  
for all employees of the Employer within the recognized jurisdiction of Locals 897, 1780, 1827, 1977 and  
2375 of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of Amcrica in the State of Nevada, and portions  
of Arizona and California. The recognized geographic jurisdiction of Locals 897, 1780 and 1977 covers  
Clark, Lincoln, Nye and Esmeralda Counties; Local 2375 covers Mineral County in addition to the afore-  
mentioned four county areas; and Local 1827's jurisdiction applies statewide. Local Unions 897, 1827 and  
2375 shalt include Needles, California and Bullhead City, Kingman, Lake Havasu City and Parker in  
Arizona. (Detailed map provided upon request.) “By becoming signatory to this Agreement the contrac-  
tor agrees that when performing work in the State of Nevada; the contractor shall be bound by and shall  
perform all work under the terms and conditions contained in the applicable Carpenter Master Labor  
Agreement.”  
This Agreement shall cover work on building, heavy highway, and engineering construction,  
including the construction of, in whole or in part, or improvement or modification thereof, including any  
siructure or operations which are incidental thereto, the assembly, operation, maintenance and repair of  
equipment, and facilities, used in connection with the performance of the aforementioned work and serv-  
ices and including without limitation the following types or classes of work.  
The construction, erection, alteration, repair, modification, demolition, addition or improve-  
ment, in whole or in part, of any building structure, including oil or gas refineries and incidental structures,  
solar energy installations and appurtenances which are incidental thereto, or the installation, operation,  
maintenance and repair equipment, and other facilities used in connection with the performance of such  
building construction except where such structures are an incidental or supplemental part of highway and  
engineering construction, as defined in this Section.  
This Agreement shall cover all work in connection with precast, prestressed concrete stone or  
fabricated units, including, but not limited to, ightweight precast, GFRC, Stone Panels (excluding solid  
Marble and Granite), Dryvil Exterior Insulating Finish Systems, or any other of panels that  
is to the interior or exterior of any building or structure; any pre-fabricated concrete stone or imi-  
tation stone included as part of the exterior wall system, and any prestressed or precast structural framing  
members, columns, lintels, and beans and metal studs in reference to all the above work.  
The laying out of all work and operation of all tools and equipment for cutting, handling, assem-  
bling and fabrication - whether performed at the jobsite or a panelization compound - of any and all stric-  
tural members, including bul not limited to those required for pre-fabricated flat curtain wall panels and  
continuous aesthetic trims or “pop-outs”’, ie., cornice work and/or horizontal and vertical banding of any  
type where such metal framing must be added (to the flat panel) to minimize overall EIFS foam thicknesses  
and thereby comply with local codes for EIFS curtain watls.  
Pre-fabricalion of inaterials outside this agreement is permissible under the following situa-  
lions:  
1. Custom or specialty non-linear trims, such as ornate column bases, capitals, medallions, and so forth  
may be all or partially framed outside this agreement if the framing itself is required to affect the assem-  
bly of applicable profiled clements thereon for the purpose of shipment to the jobsite; and also where EPS  
(foain) profiles or elements are desirable to compete with more costly exterior cleinents such as GFRC and  
### FRP.  
2. Where contractors are bidding against non-union contractors who have access to pre-fabricated prod-  
ucts and such products would make unionized contractors non-competitive and endanger their prospects of  
successfully competing for a job, In such cases, this waiver shall be processed by the Work Preservation  
Committee.  
This Agreement shall cover all work in connection with tilt-up slabs, including but not limited  
to, benchmarks, lay out, setting of all forins, block outs, metal door and window jambs, templates for bolts,  
tift points, knee braces, all stripping of forms (whether or not to be reused), rigging, selting, plumbing, and  
lining, welding, drilling, cleaning, ledger bolis, setling ledgers, setting of expanston joints and caulking.  
Also to include forms for stairs and loading docks (setting and stripping), installation of al! doors includ-  
ing roll-up, of laminated beams or precast structures, and operation of the fork lift to perform  
all of the above work.  
This Agreement shall cover all work in connection with the hoisting of which are to  
be used by the carpenters including but not limited to the rigging, guiding and handling.  
This Agreement shail cover all work in connection with self supporting scaffolds over fourteen  
(14) feet in height or scaffold built for special purposes including, but not limited to, handling, building,  
erecting and disassembling. Scaffolds erected and dismantled by the scaffold contractors, shall be the work  
of the carpenters.  
This Agreement shall cover all work in connection with office modular furniture systems  
including, but not limited to the unloading by any ineans, stockpiling, distribution to point of, erection, car-  
rying, handling, transportation, uncrating, installation, cleaning and/or staging of all office, commercial,  
industrial, institutional, and hotel furniture, furniture systems, furnishing, etc., including (regardless of  
their materials or method or manner of installation, attachment or connection), Also included will] be lay-  
out work including the use of level, transit and any other instrument or too! (or adaptable tool) required for  
he work herein described.  
This Agreement shal! cover asbestos abatement and other work involving the removal of haz-  
ardous materials. [n the event this work is subcontracted by the Contractor, (Section Hf shall aot apply as  
stated betow). Section II] shall not apply but the Contractor agrees to utilize his best efforts to insure that  
the work is done by a contractor signatory to an agreement with the Union, provided suitable and compet-  
itive signatory contractors are available.  
Repairs necessitated by defects of material or workmanship or adjustments of newly purchased  
and/or installed equipment or machinery will not be subject to this Agreement when such repairs and/or  
adjustments are made by the manufacturer or his agents or employees pursuant to the terms of a  
inanufacturer's guarantee and the Union will not hamper such manufacturer or his agents or employees on  
such exempted work.  
The carpenters claim installation of metal studs, metal frames, including siding attached there-  
to, shingles, roofing, and plastics used in the performance of carpentry work, operation of the Pettibone  
and forklift incidental to carpentry work and the use of survey instruments, either optical or electronic.  
Carpenters assigned to using survey instruments shall receive not less than the rate of pay for his regular  
classification.  
The carpenters claim the layout, rigging, tagging, signaling, cutting, burning, welding, chain  
sawing, driving, setting and pulling of all soldier piles and soldier beams together with all necessary wal-  
ing, shoring, underpinning, struts, bracing, capping and lagging necessary for construction of subterranean  
structures of ail types to include, but not limited to subways, subway stations, buildings, storm drains, sew-  
ers, pipe fines and al! open cut and cover construction projects. The carpenters further claim construction  
of all covers and access mats to include all necessary rigging for setting and removing, whether intermit-  
tently or regularly, and installation and removal of timber decking.  
Fences constructed of wood, insulation installation, drywall and Jathing work ts covered in this  
Agreement and is considered as bargaining unit work, performed under all! the terms and conditions of this  
Agreement.  
All drywall work including, but not limited to: The installation, carrying, transportation, han-  
dling, stocking, scrapping of all materials and component parts of ali types of ceilings regardless of their  
material or composition or method or manner of installation, allachinent or connection, including but not  
limited to all hangers, carrying channels, cross furring, stiffeners, braces, all bars regardless of material or  
method of attachment, all integrated gypsum wallboard ceiling heat panels, all radiant heat ceiling back-  
ing, all main tees, all cross tees, all splines, all wall and ceiling angles or moldings, all backing board and  
all finish ceilings materials regardless of method or manner of installation,  
All work in connection with the installation, erection and/or application, carrying, transporta-  
tion, handling, stocking and scrapping of all materials and component parts of wall and partitions regard-  
less of their material composition or method or manner of their installation, attachment or connection,  
including but not limited to all floor and ceiling runners, studs, stiffeners, cross bracing, fire blocking  
resilient channels, furring channels, doors and windows, including frames, casing, molding, base accesso-  
ry trim items, gypsum drywall matertals, laminated gypsum systems, backing board for all systems, includ-  
ing but not linited to this coat and other finished systems, plastic and/or paint finished bases, finish board,  
fireproofing of beams and columns, fire proofing of chase, sound and thermal insulation materials, fixture  
attachments including all, layout work, preparation of all openings for lighting, air vents or other purpos-  
es, and all other necessary or related work in connection therewith,  
No limitation shall be placed on the work covered by this Section by reason of the surface or  
texture or purpose for which the materials described herein are used, designed or intended,  
It is further specifically understood that the installation, tiging and connection of all types of  
light iron and metal studs and all types of light iron furring erected to receive the materials specified in this  
article, including but not limited to gypsum wallboard, walls, partitions, cciling heat panels, backing  
boards, plastic or acoustical materials or any material attached to the above described light iron construc-  
tion is specifically included in the work covered by this Section,  
The installation, erection and construction to include the work of fabrication of all materials to  
receive a plaster finish, to also include the completing of alt light tron construction, furring, making and  
erecting of brackets, clips and hangers; metal lath, corner beads and arches erected for the purpose of hold-  
ing gypsum plaster, cement plaster and all other plaster bases.  
All carrying bars, purlins and furring, regardless of size, light iron and metat furring of alt  
descriptions such as rods, channel flat iron and other ceiling systems for the receipt of metal lath, or rock  
lath, and all other plaster bases which are to receive plaster on one or both sides, to include any and all  
plastenng accessories,  
The nailing, tying, cutling, welding and fastening, regardless of method, of the above and all  
wire and metallic lath of atl descriptions connected therewith,  
The placing, handling, moving and erection of all materials which fall within the description of work set  
forth in this Section, The erecting and moving of all scaffolds and the moving and handling of all materi-  
als to be used in the erection of scaffolds or other patented scaffolding.  
The work covered by this Agreement shali include all types of wood flooring of any size, shape  
or pattern in all its branches and phases, such as nailing, filling, laying, striping, tongue and grove, under-  
layment, blocks-mastic work, sanding, edging, staining, finishing, basing, application of shellac, varnish-  
cs, Sealers, waxing and all maintenance and related work. Computer floors, and/or raised access floors in  
all its branches and phases, such as material handling, layout, fabrication, maintenance, installation, cut-  
ting, fitting, and fastening of all materials and components, such as pedestal stanchions, stringer systems,  
seismic bracing, unistrut systems, x-ray supports, light supports, cable vault supports, racks, shelving, ceil-  
ing grids, clean room wall framing, ceiling supports, utility screen supports, unistrut inetal framing systems  
of all lightweight standardized components which can be bolted together to form roofs, decks and special  
structural elements of varying modular configurations and afl other necessary structural support assem-  
blies. Installation of ramps, steps, fascia assemblies, plenum dividers, air grills, cable cul-outs, ledge extru-  
sion, hand rail assemblies, cove base at perimeter walls, lamination of coverings onto floor panels, and any  
other operation relative to computer floor installations.  
The character of such work covered by this Agreement shall be all carpenter work on such con-  
Struction within the recognized jurisdiction of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of  
America, including but not limited to plastics and such work in connection with new methods of con-  
Struclion or use of materials innovated during the terin of the Agreement. The Union may request a work  
assignment in writing if it feels there is some danger of a jurisdictional dispute. When requested, an  
Employer will furnish the Union signed letters on the letterhead of the individual Employer, stating they  
have employed carpenters on a specific type of work and paid the negotiated scale of wages on any and all  
jobs which the individual Emptoyer has performed with carpenters.  
This Agreement shall apply to all work performed in the Employer's warchouses, shops or yards  
which have been particularly provided or set up to handle work in connection with a job or project, cov-  
ered by the terms of this Agreement, and all of the production or fabrication of materials by the Employer  
for use on the projects will be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
During the term hereof, there shall be no strikes, slowdowns, or stoppages of work occastoned  
by jurisdictional disputes between the Union signatory hereto and any other Union.  
The parties hereto agree that, where a jurisdictional problem develops involving Unions not sig-  
natory to this Agreement, the representatives of the Union involved will meet with the representatives of  
the Contractors to resolve the particular problem. Any resolution resulting from such aforementioned  
inecting between the Unions and the Contractors shall be put into effect immediately.  
Jurisdictional disputes which cannot be resolved at the local levels, shail then be referred to the  
International Unions invelved for determination, and the work shall proceed as assigned by the Contractor  
until such determination by the International Union has been confirmed to the disputing Unions and the  
Contractors. The intent of this Section is to clarify that jurisdictional issues are not a contractual liability.  
In the event the Carpenters Union becomes affiliated with the AFL-CIO, and Employer becomes a  
signatory to the Impartial Jurisdictional Disputes Board or its successor plan or board, disputes as to juris-  
diction of work claimed by other Unions than those affiliated with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters  
and Joiners of America shall be referred to and settled in accordance with the procedural rules and regula-  
tions of the Impartial Jurisdictional Disputes Board or its successor. A decision rendered by said Impartial  
Jurisdictional Disputes Board or its successor in any given jurisdictional determination shall be imple-  
mented immediately by the Employer involved.  
This Agreement shall apply to the Employcr or his subcontractor on any job site operation,  
under any change of name or or corporate name or joint venture, and shall be binding upon any  
person who may have been a principal financially associated with the Employer or subcontractor.  
### (b) LIGHT COMMERCIAL, RESIDENTIAL HOUSING AND DRYWALL HOUSING. The  
parties hereto have agreed to special working rules for residential housing and light commercial con-  
struction, which are contained in the Appendixes “C" and “D".  
### SECTION ITI  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
(a) If an Employer shall subcontract work as hercin defined, provisions shat! be made in such  
subcontract for the observance by said subcontractor of the terms of this Agreement.  
(b). Each Employer and each subcontractor shall notify the Union and the Trust Fund office  
listed in this Agreement (“Funds”) in writing, on a uniform Job Registration Form available from the Union  
or the Funds, of the location of each job on which the Employer will be performing work covered by this  
Agreement and all necessary information required by such form, Each Employer shall provide such infor-  
mation for work it does not subcontract but performs itself. This form is requested but not required of  
Subcontractors whose project has a dollar value tess than $200,000.00, or Employers whose project has a  
dollar value less than $1,000,000,00. Such form shall be completed and filed with the Union and with the  
Trust Fund office at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of work. If factors beyond the control of  
the Employer or subcontractor prevent timely filing of the Job Registration Form, the Employer or sub-  
contractor within forty-eight (48) hours prior to commencement of work, shall so notify the Union and the  
Funds by e-mail or fax, identify the project, and file the completed Job Registration Form with the Union  
and the Trust Fund office within forty-eight (48) hours thereafter.  
In the event an employer takes over ihe performance of any work covered by the terms of this  
Agreement for another Employer or subcontractor, the successor Employer or subcontractor shall notify  
the Funds and the Union in writing of its intent to undertake performance of the work. Such notice shall  
be given as much time prior to commencing work as possible.  
{c) To the extent required by state the Employer shall be financially responsible for all  
wages and fringe benefit payments owed to any workmen or any funds established by this Agreement by  
the Employer’s Subcontractor, or the Subcontractor of a Subcontractor, 10 any workmen or any Fund con-  
tributions required in this Agreement for work performed on the Employer's job or project, provided there  
has been an appropriate demand made in writing to recover said wages and fringe benefits. Ifthe Employer  
has included the delinquent Subcontractor on a duly filed Job Registration Form, a copy of such demand  
will be furnished to the Employer. If the state law is amended to relieve the Employer of such responsi-  
bility, then this Section shall continue to be applicable on the Employer’s responsibility to the extent of any  
monies remaining due from the Employer to the Subcontractor who is Hable for wages or fringe benefit  
contributions.  
Prior to implementation of this paragraph, the Union or Trust Fund will make a good faith effort  
to promptly notify the Employer of any and delinquencies of the Subcontractor and make a good faith  
effort to exhaust execution of the Subcontractor’s bond or bonds,  
(d} The terms and conditions of this Agreement insofar as it affects the individual Employer  
shall apply to any subcontractor under the control of or working under contract with the individual  
Employer upon work covered by this Agreement, and said subcontractor with respect to such work shall  
be considered as the individual Employer. Any subcontractor performing work under the jurisdiction of  
this Agreement must furnish all materials and equipment for the fabrication and/or installation thereof  
(except carpenter hand tools) and must compensate carpenters at the wage rates, fringe benefits and work-  
ing conditions as specified in this Agreement.  
For purposes of this Agreement, a subcontractor is any person (other than an cov-  
ered by this Agreement), firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other entity that holds  
a valid State Contractor's License, wherever required by law, and who agrees under contract in writing with  
the Employer or in writing with his subcontractors to perform any work covered by this Agreement and  
who employs workmen as employees to perform services under this Agreement, who agrees in writing lo  
perform for or on behalf of an Employer or other subcontractor any part or portion of the work covered by  
this Agreement.  
(f} The Employer and his subcontractors shall refrain from the use of materials which will tend  
lo cause discord or disturbance on the job site.  
{g) The terms and conditions set forth in this Section II[ apply to bargaining unit work only,  
The Union may withhold or withdraw workers from the Employer or subcontractor for failure to comply  
with this Section IL (b); only after first (15') notifying the employer or subcontractor in writing 48 hours  
before withdrawing workers from the employer or subcontractor.  
(h) The parties recognize and acknowledge the importance of prompt remedial action to collect  
delinquent fringe benefit contributions from Employers of Subcontractors who are habitually delinquent in  
their payments to the Funds and will use their good faith efforis to encourage such action. The parties also  
recognize the responsibility to file appropriate documents in connection with bankruptcy of any Employer  
or Subcontractor as part of a prudent effort to collect unpaid wages or fringe benefit contributions.  
### SECTION IV  
### APPLICABILITY  
The partics agree that in the event the Union party hereto shall negotiate different terms and  
conditions of employment for employees performing job site construction industry work in classifications  
similar to those set forth in this Agreement in the work and territorial jurisdiction of the Union signatory  
hereto, no Employer signatory to this Master Labor Agreement shall be required to provide terms or con-  
ditions of employment under this Master Labor Agreement any more favorable than such terms and con-  
ditions contained in such other construction industry agreements concerning jobsite work within the terri-  
torial jurisdiction of this Agreement. This provision shall not be applicable to a maintenance or special  
project agreement that may be negotiated by the Union with an employer not signatory or bound to this  
Master Labor Agreciment,  
### SECTION V  
### WAGE SCALES  
(a) No employce receiving totat compensation (i.c., wages and payments to trust funds for  
vacation, health and welfare, pensions and subsistence) under an existing agrectnent between an individ-  
val Union and any Employer shall suffer any reduction in such compensation by reason of the execution  
of this  
### WAGE & FRINGE BENEFIT INCREASES  
Effective July |, 2001 .717¢ Wages  
.40¢ Health & Welfare  
03¢ Supp. Dues  
Effective July {, 2002 $1.25  
Effective July 1, 2003 $1,35  
### WAGE RATES  
Effective 07/01/01  
ZONE #1: Work performed within thirty (30) road miles from Maryland Parkway and Charleston shall be  
compensated at the following rates:  
Journeyman Carpenter $24.93  
Carpenter Welder  
ZONE #2: Work performed outside of the Las Vegas Area Free Zone between thirty (30) to fifty (50) road  
mites from Maryland Parkway and Charleston shall be compensated at the following rates:  
Journeyman Carpenter $ +1.50  
Carpenter Welder $ +1.00  
ZONE #3: Work performed outside of the Las Vegas Area Free Zone over fifty (50) road miles from  
Maryland Parkway and Charleston, except for Laughlin, Nevada, shall be compensated at the, following  
rates:  
Journeyman Carpenter $43.25  
Carpenter Welder $+1.00  
LAUGHLIN AREA: Work shall be compensated at the following rates:  
Journeyman Carpenter $+2,00  
Carpenter Welder $+1.00  
*Road miles is the most direct route by public road. When a job site is located in more than one (1) zone,  
alt hours worked on that site shall be paid in accordance with the zone rate of the zone in which the pre-  
ponderance of work is performed.  
### FRINGE BENEFIT RATES  
Effective 07/01/01  
  
Health & Welfare 3.32  
Pension 4.44  
Vacation/Supplemental Dues 2.34  
Apprenticeship 35  
Carpenters/Contractor Cooperation Cmte, 10  
Grievance Arbitration/Adininistration .05 (+ .O1 in second year tf needed)  
National Safety & tlealth and Apprenticeship Funds .O4  
TOTAL 10.64  
(b) WELDING. The classifications of Carpenter-Welder and Millwright-Welder shall receive  
$1.00 per hour over their respeclive Joummeyman’s rate. A carpenter-welder shall be defined a workinan who  
holds a valid AWS 11.1 (Heavy Plate) or DI.3 (Light Gauge) certification; or other welding certification  
relevant to the scope of the job. And who has been dispatched as a certified welder or has been assigned  
by the Employer to weld on work on which his or her certification is required. This includes welding in  
panel yards or offsite for a project covered by this Agreement on work like precast and theming.  
Any apprentice who meets the above descriptions shall receive the premium for welder.  
Any carpenter who uses a hand held or tractor mounted oxyfuel torch, plasma arc torch, or any  
other thermal cutting device for the purpose of cutting, burning, shaping, or fabricating of any material, for  
4 hours or more in a single shift, shall atso qualify for the 8 hours of welders premium.  
In the event that the scope of work deinands certification beyond or other than AWS DI.1] or D1.3, it is  
agreed that the employer shall bear the expense of such certification.  
lt is also agreed that the employer will provide, for cach employee who incets the definition of carpenter  
or millwright-welder all gloves, welding hoods with proper filter lenses as per the standards of ANSI Z49.])  
Sec. E4.2.1.1, replacement cover lenses, leathers or sleeves, wire brushes, chipping hammers, soap stone  
and other necessary equipment required to safely and properly perform the work of a welder. Also the  
eimptoyer shalt replace these items in the event they become unusable due to wear or damage associated  
with welding operations.  
Each employer shall provide a letter on company letterhead, to each welder employed. — [f the  
employee requests the welding qualifications letter in writing, this letter shall include employees aame,  
Social Security number and verification that the welder performed work under the scope of his individual  
The contractor, if requested in writing, shall provide an cinployec a copy of his welding  
records including a copy of his procedures used and letter of welding qualification. Each  
employer shall recognize the letters of other signatory employers as verification of work performed under  
the standards of AWS Sec. 4.1.3.1 and D1.3 Sec 4.9. These letters must be issucd not later than the  
15th of the month following the end of each six month period or upon scparation from the employer due  
to the completion of the project. If a welder is terminated or leaves the employer prior to the end of the  
project then such letter and information shall be produced within two weeks or len working days of receipt  
of the written request for the information.  
(c} FOREMAN: The hourly wage scale for carpenter foreman shall be 9% above the journey-  
man carpenter wage rate. The hourly wage scale for carpenter general foreman shall be 9% above the car-  
penter foreman wage rate.  
(d) When an employee works in more than one classification for any portion of a day, he shall  
receive the rate of the highest classification for all work performed for that entire day.  
(e) All other classifications under the jurisdiction of the Union not designated herein shall  
receive not Iess than journeyman carpenter's scale as specified above, except apprentices and their classi-  
fication herein described. The parties hereto may establish wage rates different than the apprenticeship  
wage rates for employees under a manpower development training program. Some consideration will be  
given to providing summer employment for undergraduate engineering students,  
(f) Indentured carpenter apprentices shall receive the following wages based on the following  
percentage of journeyman’s base rates of pay and fringe benefit contributions per the schedule listed below:  
Schedule of Periods  % Schedule  
Ist 3 months 50 (1)  
(minimum 300 hours}  
2nd 3 months §5 (2)  
(minimum 300 hours)  
2nd 6 months 60 (3)  
(ninimum 600 hours)  
3rd 6 months 65 (3)  
(minimum 600 hours)  
4th 6 months 70 (3)  
(minimum 600 hours)  
5th 6 months 75 (4)  
(minimum 600 hours)  
6th 6 months 80 {4}  
{minimum 600 hours)  
7th 6 months 90 (4)  
(minimum 600 hours)  
8th 6 months 95 (4)  
(minimum 600 hours)  
### SCHEDULE OF FRINGE BENEFITS FOR APPRENTICES  
(1) fst 3 months - H & W, Apprenticeship, Grievance and Arbitration Administrative Trust Fund,  
Supplemental Dues  
(2) 2nd 3 months - H & W, Apprenticeship, Grievance and Arbitration Administrative Trust Fund,  
Supplemental Dues, National Health & Safety & Apprenticeship,  
(3) 2nd 6 months - H & W, Apprenticeship, Grievance and Arbitration Administrative Trust Fund,  
Supplemental Dues, National Heatth & Safety & Apprenticeship, and Pension A contribution, Carpenters-  
Contractors Cooperation Committee  
(4) sth 6 months, all current fringe benefits.  
Carpenter Pre-Apprentice  
1. As a prelude to apprenticeship. There is established a classification of Pre-Apprentice.  
2 The classification of Pre-Apprentice, the recruiting, hiring and dispatch shall be the responsi-  
bility of the Union.  
3. The Employer may employ one Pre-Apprentice for every (2) Apprentices dispatched under this  
agreement on a job by job basis. If an Apprentice is not available when requested, a Pre-Apprentice may  
be used instead.  
4. Pre-Apprentices shall, upon accumulation of 300 hours of on the job training become eligible  
for entry into the Apprenticeship program.  
5. [1 ts understood, should an Employer participate in the hiring of Pre-Apprentices that all hours  
earned in excess of 300 hours will be at (he schedule (1) apprentice rate of pay.  
6. Pre-Apprentices shall work under the supervision of the Carpenter Foreman and the work they  
perform will be incidental to work normally performed by Journeyman Carpenters and/or Apprentices.  
Pre-Apprentices will not be required to use power equipment,  
is Pre-Apprentices shall receive the following wages based on the Journeyman rate of pay:  
45% of Journeyman rate  
05 Grievance and Arbitration Administrative Trust Fund  
.41 Supplemental Dues  
35 Apprenticeship Fund  
{g) PUBLIC WORKS: In the event an Employer bids public work which is to be performed at  
predetermined prevailing wage rates established under slate or federal law, and said rates are below the  
wage rates in this Agreement, the predetermined prevailing wage and fringe benefil rates shall apply to that  
project for the first twenty-four (24) months of the project, This period shal! commence from award date.  
If specific provisions appear in the bid document such as special shifis, night or weekend work, and they  
are in conflict with the Master Labor Agreeinent, they may be appealed to the Work Preservation  
Committee. If the Federal Davis Bacon Act or State Prevailing Wage Law is repealed or amended, the  
contract may be reopened for affected sections.  
It is the obligation of each employer to complete the Stale Prevailing Wage Survey or the Form,  
or to allow the Union to perform it for thein.  
Special Single Shifts: On Public Works Projects; When the Contractor produces evidence in  
writing to the Union twenty-four (24) hours in advance of a bona-fide job requirement that work can only  
be performed outside the regular day shift due to safety conditions, or other requirements, an emptoyee  
shall work eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which he shall receive eight (8) hours  
pay at the straight-time rate of pay, Monday through Friday. All time worked or hours paid for Saturdays,  
Sundays and holidays shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate, Otherwise all tine worked or hours  
paid for Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays and hours worked in excess of eight (8} hours shall be paid for  
at the appropriate overtime rate. It is agreed, however, that in the operation of this shift, no employee will  
lose a shilt’s work.  
(h) WORK PRESERVATION COMMITTEE: The partics to this Agreement recognize the  
necessity of assuring the competitive position of the partics within the industry during the term of this  
Agreement. Consistent with that recognition, the parties will continually monitor the of this  
Agreement during its term as may be necessary to assure the work opportunities of the cmployees and the  
competitive position of the individual employers. To implement the intent of this paragraph, the parties to  
this Agreement hereby establish a Committee composed of three (3) representatives appointed by the  
Union and three (3) representatives appointed by the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America.  
This Committee will review requests for changes in the terms and conditions of the Agreement that may  
be necessary to preserve work opportunities for employees and individual employers covered by the  
Agreement. The Committee is authorized to approve and implement such changes as it deems to be in the  
best interest of the parties to the Agreement.  
### SECTION VI  
### PLANS & FUNDS  
(a) The United Builders and Contractors Association, Inc. shall have the exclusive right to  
remove and appoint at least seventy-five percent of the Management Trustees, the Southern Nevada  
Chapter of the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America shall have the exclusive right to remove  
and appoint twenty-five percent of the Management Trustees serving on the Carpenters Southern Nevada  
Vacation Trust Fund, Carpenters Southern Nevada Health and Insurance Trust Fund, Carpenters Southern  
Nevada Pension Trust Fund, and the Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship Committee Fund. The bargaining  
agrecment and the trust agreements shall be amended to reflect these changes.  
(b) VACATION SAVINGS PLAN: Each Employer covered by this Agreement will contribute  
the sum of two dollars and thirty-four cents ($2.34) per hour, for each hour compensated to carpenters  
employed by such individual Employer under this Agreement, to the Carpenters Southern Nevada Vacation  
Trust Fund, and will be subject to and entitled to the benefils of all the provisions of the Trust Agreement  
in existence prior to June 1968, or as amended, or as the Fund may be reorganized or merged, estab-  
lishing that fund. For the purpose of administering the Vacation Trust Fund set forth herein, the individual  
Employer, by becoming a party to this Agreement, does hercby designate the Employer Trustees to act as  
his agent on all matters concerning the fund. The amount payable to the Vacation Savings Plan on over-  
time work shall be paid in an amount reflecting the overtime premium payment.  
Subject to the following conditions, the contractor agrees that cach employee who gives writ-  
ten authorization to the Board of Trustees of the Carpenters Vacation Savings Trust to pay to the Union  
from funds held by the Trustees on his behalf the sum of sixty-three cents ($.63) for cach hour of his  
employment (hours worked, or paid) in cach payroll period, as special supplemental dues owed by the  
employee to the Union,  
The Union shall bear the entire responsibility for obtaining the written authorization from the  
employee and furnishing the authorization to the Board of Trustees in a form satisfactory to the Trustees.  
All costs, expenses and fees of the Board of Trustces incident to the accounting, administration and remit-  
1]  
tance to the Union of the supplemental dues payments shall be borne solely and entirely by the Union. This  
provision shall in no way affect the obligation of the Contractor to pay the full amount of vacation contri-  
butions specified in this Agreement.  
All written authorization referred to above shall be irrevocable for a period of one year from  
the date of execution and shail renew automatically from year to year thereafter, unless the employee has  
served wrilten notice upon the Board of Trustees and on the Union, not more than twenty (20) days, and  
not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration of cach period of one year or of the period of this  
Agreement, whichever is sooner, terminating the authorization.  
(c) HEALTH AND INSURANCE: Each individual Employer covered by this Agreement will  
contribute the sum of three dollars and thirty-two cents ($3.32) per hour for each hour compensated to car-  
penters employed by such Employer under this Agreement to the Carpenters Southern Nevada  
Heatth and Insurance Trust Fund and will be subject to and entitled to the benefits of all provisions of the  
Trust Agreement, or as amended, or as the fund may be reorganized or merged, establishing thal fund. For  
the purpose of administering the Health and Insurance Trust Fund mentioned herein, the individual  
Employer, by becoming a party to this Agreement, does hereby designate the Employer Trustees to act as  
his agent in atl matters concerning the fund.  
### (d) UBC HEALTH & SAFETY AND APPRENTICESHIP & TRAINING FUNDS OF NORTH  
AMERICA: In addition to any contributions otherwise called for herein, the parties agree that the  
Employer shall make a contribution of two cents ($.02) per hour worked for each employce covered by this  
Agreement to the United Brotherhood of Carpenters Apprenticeship & Training Fund of North America  
(the “Training Fund"), The parties also agree that the Employer shal! make a contribution of two cents  
($.02) per hour worked for each employee covered by this Agreement to the United Brotherhood of  
Carpenters Health & Safety Fund of North America (the “Safety Fund"). Payment shall be made to the  
Training Fund and the Safety Fund or to such collection agent as is designated by the Training Fund and  
the Safety Fund on or before the 20th day of the month following the month of the work performed, The  
Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust for the Training Fund  
and for the Safety Fund as they exist and as they may be amended or restated, and to such rules, regula-  
tions and other governing documents adopted pursuant to such Trusts, Upon request, the Employer may  
receive the latest annual report prepared for the Training Fund, the Safety Fund, or both.  
(¢) PENSION PLAN: Each individual Employer covered by this Agreement will contribute the  
sum of four dollars and forty-four cents ($4.44) per hour, for each hour compensated to carpenters  
employed by such individual Employer under this Agreement, to the Carpenters Southern Nevada Pension  
Trust Fund, and will be subject to and entitled to the benefits of all the provisions of the Trust Agreement  
in existence prior lo June 1, 1968, or as amended or as the fund may be reorganized or merged, establish-  
ing that fund and any amendments thereto.  
For the purpose of administering the Pension Fund mentioned herein, the individual Employer,  
by becoming a party to this Agreement, does hcreby designate the Employer Trustees to act as his agent in  
all matters concerning the Pension Fund.  
[t is recognized and agreed that in the best interests of all parties concerned, the Trustees of the  
Pension Fund shall provide, under their fiduciary responsibilities, the maximum amount of pension bene-  
fits to employees covered by this Agreement, with the further objective of providing that there will be no  
unfunded vested liability with respect to the Pension Plan. The Trustees of the Plan are therefore directed,  
to the extent permissible by law, to assure that reasonable measures are taken that the mutual objectives of  
maximum Pension benefits possible and no unfunded vested liability, be continually maintained.  
### (f) CONTRIBUTIONS IN BEHALF OF SUPERINTENDENTS: The Union and the Employer  
agree that when employees are working in a supervisory position above the rank of general foreman, the  
12  
individual Employer may make payments with respect to his work into the Carpenters Health and Welfare  
Trust Fund and Carpenters Pension Trust Fund, on the basis of 160 hours per month, tn accordance with  
the schedules set forth in the Master Agreement, regardless of hours worked by such employce in a month,  
provided, however, the individual Employer having made one (1) payment on an employee shall continue  
to make such payments so long as the employec is in his employ in a like supervisory capacity.  
Superintendents covered under this paragraph (¢) shall be allowed a one-time option to discon-  
tinue coverage, if requested in writing to the Employer within ninety (90) days following the effective date  
of this Agreement.  
(g) APPRENTICESHIP: The Employer and the Union agree to establish and operate a Joint  
Apprenticeship Committee for carpenters. The Joint Apprenticeship Committee is to have complete con-  
trol and direction of the on-the-job and related class training of all apprentices in the trade.  
To meet the cost of operation and administration of the joint apprenticeship program, cach indi-  
vidual Employer covered by this Agreement will contribute the sum of thirty-five ($.35) cents per hour for  
each hour compensated to carpenters employed by such individual Employer under this Agreement. Such  
contributions shall be made to the “Carpenters Joint Apprenticeship Committee Fund." The employment  
of apprentices shall be governed under conditions established in accordance with this paragraph (f) and  
under the rules and regulations of the Joint Apprenticeship  
The Trustees of the Joint Apprenticeship shall have the authority to establish new  
training programs to provide journeyman carpenters with training regarding upgrading such carpenters on  
technology, materials and new methods of work that are related to the carpenters and millwright trades.  
Such programs shall be established within existing contributions and available funds.  
A Contractor may employ one (1) apprentice for every two (2) journcymen, The Contractor  
must hire one (1) apprentice after ten (10) journeymen, including the foreman. After the first ten (10), then  
for every five (5) journeymen he must empfoy one (1) apprentice if available.  
Two (2) apprentices may be employed with cach journeyman on Insulation Work.  
### (h) GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION/ADMINISTRATION TRUST FUND.  
There is hereby established a Grievance and Arbitration/Administration Trust Fund. The purposes of the  
Trust are to establish and administer procedures to process grievances and to provide third party inde-  
pendent arbitration on disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement that may  
occur between the employer or individual employer and the Union. Additionally, the purposes will include  
establishing, implementing and administering uniform labor relations policies and assisting in the negoti-  
ations of any modification, amendment, change, extension or renewal of this Agreement or any subsequent  
agreement on behalf of signatory members of the Association and those individual Employers who, under  
a collective bargaining agreement with the Union, are so obligated to contribute. Each individual employ-  
er agrees to contribute the sum of five cents ($.05) per hour (* .Ol¢ in 2002 if needed) for each hour com-  
pensated to carpenters employed by such individual employer under this Agreement, to the Grievance and  
Arbitration/Administration Trust Fund. The Trustees of the Grievance and Arbitration/Administration  
Trust Fund shall be appointed by the United Builders and Contractors Association, inc. All monies col-  
lected on behalf of contractors who are signatory through a proxy with the Painting and Decorating  
Contractors of America will be forwarded to the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America on a  
monthly basis by the Grievance and Acbitration/Administration Trust Fund. Also it is agreed the Painting  
and Decorating Contractors of America will continue to represent all members of the Association in mat-  
ters of labor relations, including grievance and arbitration representation.  
### (i). CARPENTERS-CONTRACTORS COOPERATION COMMITTEE  
The parties to this Agreement have established the Carpenters-Contractors Cooperation Committee for the  
13  
purposes of protecting, improving and advancing the interests and welfare of Contractors and employees  
working within the unionized segment of the Carpenters construction industry. Each signatory member of  
the Association and those individual Employers who are obligated to contribute under a collective bar-  
gaining agreement with the Union shall contribute, during the term of this Agreement, the sum designated  
in Section V to the Carpenters-Contractors Cooperation Committee. The Cominittee is a jointly estab-  
lished and administered Committee formed and created for the above stated purposes and the individual  
Employer hereby adopts and agree to be bound by the terms of Bylaws establishing the Carpenters-  
Contractors Cooperation Comunittce dated October |, 1986, and further agrees to observe and be bound by  
the aclions and deterininations of the Board of Directors of said Committee,  
Gj) All payments required to be made by each Employer to the Vacation Savings Plan, the Health  
and {nsurance Trust Fund, Grievance and Arbitration Administration Trust Fund, Carpenters Contractors  
Cooperation Committee, the Nationat Safety & Health and Apprenticeship Funds, the Pension Trust Fund,  
the Joint Apprenticeship Committee and the Journeyman Upgrading Fund, when applicable, under this  
Section shall be due and payable to the appropriate trust fund and Joint Apprenticeship Committee no later  
than the tenth ctothy day of the month for all hours worked by employees covered by this Agreement dur-  
ing the preceding month. An Employer who has not made such payments by the (wenticth (20th) day of  
the month shalt be considered in violation of the Agreement and a delinguent Employer. The grievance  
and arbitration procedure contained in Section XV shall not apply to any cases involving the failure of a  
contractor to pay fringe benefits as required herein. The Union shall take appropriate action against the  
Employer or Subcontractor who is delinquent in the payment of fringe benefil contributions under this  
Agreement, up to and including the withholding of manpower.  
(k) A list of Subcontractors or others who are delinquent in payment of fringe benefit contribu-  
tions under this Agreement will be provided monthly to Employers and Employer Associations represent-  
ing Employers, as close as reasonably possibly to the first of the next month succeeding the due date of  
reports referenced above.  
()) The Union may, upon ninety (90) days written advance notice al any tine during the term of  
this Agreement, allocate any portion of the then-existing journeyman wage rate to the Vacation Savings  
Plan, Apprenticeship Committee Trust Fund, National Safety and Health & Apprenticeship Funds, Work  
Preservation Committee Fund, Health and Welfare and/or Pension Plan.  
### (m) TRUST FUND DELINQUENCIES,  
(a) Throughout the effective term of this agreement, the Employer and the Union agree to be  
bound by and to fully comply with all terms and provisions of the Trust Agreements referred to herein and  
to comply fully with all, regulations and eligibility standards adopted by each of said Boards of Trustees,  
together with any and all further amendments, changes and additions to said Trust Agreements and/or lo  
said rules, regulations and standards which at any time may be adopted.  
(b) In the event of non-payment or delinquent payment of contributions, the Employer shall  
pay to each of said Trust Funds liquidated damages, interest, audit fees, court costs and reasonable attor-  
ney fees for the expense of collection.  
(c) of said Boards of Trustees, acting directly or through its authorized representatives,  
makes a determination that the Employer is delinquent in furnishing timely reports in proper form, mak-  
ing timely payment of contributions or in failing to comply fully with any of the of the appli-  
cable Agreement and Declaration of Trust or with any rules, regulations or collection procedures of such  
Trust Fund, then, in addition to the foregoing provisions of this Article, the Union may refuse to furnish  
any employees to such delinquent Employer and/or may direct employees currently employed by such  
delinquent Employer to cease working and/or impose economic or other legal sanctions against such delin-  
-  
quent Employer. Any such action by the Union shall not be in violation of the Strike, Prohibition provi-  
sions set forth in this Agreement. Prior to removal of cmployces, the Union will give the Employer twen-  
\y-four (24) hours notice.  
### SECTION VII  
### HIRING PROVISIONS  
The hiring provisions shal! be as set forth in Appendix "A”  
### SECTION VIII  
### ZONE PAY  
(a) ZONE } - The Free Zone around Las Vegas shall be within thirty (30) road miles from the  
intersection of Charleston Boulevard and Maryland Parkway.  
(b) ZONE 2 - Work performed outside of the Las Vegas Area Free Zone between thirty (30) to  
fifty (50) road miles from Maryland Parkway and Charleston shall be compensated at rate set forth in  
Section V of this Agreement.  
(c) ZONE 3 - Work performed outside of the Las Vegas Area Free Zone of over fifly (50) road  
miles shall be compensated al the rate set forth in Section V.  
(d) For millwrights the following zones apply with respect to the Reno area:  
(1) ZONE | - The Free Zone around Reno shall be within a fifteen (15) mile radius from the County  
Courthouse located in Reno, Nevada.  
(2) ZONE 2 - Work performed outside the Reno Free Zone at fifteen (15) to thirty-five (35) road miles  
shall be compensated at the rate set forth in Appendix "B" of the Agreement.  
(3) ZONE 3 - Work performed outside of the Reno Area Free Zone at a radius of over thirty-five (35) road  
miles shall be compensated at the rate set forth in Appendix “B" of this Agreement. *Road miles are the  
most direct route by public road.  
(e) When the Contractor furnishes transportation to workmen to and from the jobsite on the  
Contractor's time, no travel and subsistence or zone pay shall be paid.  
(f} Workmen performing work outside Zone | shall receive the appropriate rate for not less than  
eight (8) hours per day.  
(g) No premium shall be paid regarding travel, subsistence or zone pay if a workman has been  
abona fide resident for a period of six (6) months prior to employment and Is employed in one of the areas  
described below:  
### PAHRUMP MESQUITE  
### CALIENTE ALAMO  
### PIOCHE BEATTY  
### OVERTON INDIAN SPRINGS  
### LOGANDALE LATHROP WELLS  
### LAUGHLIN/BULLHEAD CITY TONOPAH  
The starting point for zone pay as described above shall be computed beyond twenty (20) miles  
from the post office in each community, and any workman qualified under the above residence require-  
ments shalt have the first preference regarding employment in any of the above-described areas. Regardless  
of the residence of the workman, tn the event the jobsite ts located in any area other than the above-  
described areas, then each provision of this section on zone pay shall apply.  
Note: This paragraph (g) does not apply with respect to millwrights.  
### SECTION IX  
### HOURS OF WORK  
(a) Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of the meal pertod, shall constitute a day's work. The  
working hours shall be between the hours of 4:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., with thirty (30) minutes off for lunch.  
Lunch periods shall be scheduled not later than five (5) hours after the start of work. An employee required  
to work during his lunch period shall receive time and one-half of his regular hourly rate for such time .  
The employee must be allowed time to cat lunch as soon as possible. An earlier time may be  
arranged upon the approval of a majority of the employees on the job in a poll conducted by the steward,  
provided that no work is started prior to 4:30 a.m, without agreement of the Union before starling at such  
an earlier time, the Employer shall give written notification of the deviation in starting lime to the  
Union not less than 24 hours prior to the starting time of the deviation, and such notice shail contain the  
following information:  
. Address of job.  
. Starting deviation hour.  
. Starting date for deviation,  
. Reason for deviation.  
. Approximate ending date of deviation.  
Am ww N=  
Shift starting time on high-rise project above six stories shall commence at ground level eleva-  
tor entrance,  
Overtime rates shall not be paid for work performed before 4:30 a.m, Monday through Friday,  
on jobs where devialion in starting time was performed in compliance with the provision of this Section.  
In the event an Employer fails to give proper notice to the Union of a deviation in starting time or fails to  
comply with the terms of this Section, the Esnployer shall be considered in violation of the Agreement and  
shall be required to pay for all time worked prior to 4:30 a.m, at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2)  
Monday through Saturday, or double time (2X), if occurring on a Sunday or holiday.  
(b) The regular work week shall consist of five (5) days, Monday through Friday, OVERTIME  
RATES: First two (2) hours outside the regular constituted shift shal] be at the rate of time and one-half (1-  
1/2).  
Saturdays up to the first ten (£0) hours shall be at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). All addi-  
tional hours and Sundays and holidays shall be the rate of double time (2X). Employees shall be given a  
rest period of nol less than eight (8) hours between the termination of any overtime work and the com-  
mencement of another straight time shift, except in cases of emergency.  
(c) When a workman is required to work more than three (3) hours over the regular cight (8)  
hours, the Employer agrees to provide a hot lunch no more than five (5) hours after the last lunch period,  
and the workman shall have sufficient time to eat the lunch without loss of time. The employer has the  
option to pay one-half (1/2) hour applicable overtime rate in tieu of meal.  
16  
(d) When so elected by the Contractor, multiple shifts may be worked for three or more con-  
secutive working days, provided that the Union is notified in writing twenty-four (24) hours in advance of  
the effective date of the starting of such multiple shift operation, provided, however, that men working on  
multiple shifts shall not be interchangeable with those working on a single shift basis. All employees on  
multiple or single shifts commencing work prior to the established starting time shall be paid the applica-  
ble overtime rate. In no event shall the regular working hours of different shifts overlap, nor shail any inter-  
val between shifts exceed the reasonable time necessary to change shifts, and in no event shall such inter-  
val exceed one (1) hour, except when a special shift is established in accordance with paragraph (f), Special  
Shifts. It is understood that a single and a multiple shift may work concurrently on a project.  
Shift Work: When more than one shift is worked, the first shift shall work eight {8} consecu-  
tive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which cight (8) hours straight time shall be pard, Monday through  
Friday. The second shift shall work seven and onc half (7-1/2) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal peri-  
od, for which eight (8) hours straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday. The third shift shall work  
seven (7) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which cight (8) hours straight time shall be paid,  
Monday through Friday. All time worked or hours paid for after the above-specified work shifts in any  
one day or on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday shall be paid for at the applicable overtime rate.  
Any time worked from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight, or on a holiday or in excess of the  
regular shift hours or hours paid for, shall be paid at the overtime rate, except as provided in paragraph (c)  
of this Section. It is agreed that the Contractor and the Union may mutually agree, in writing, upon dif-  
ferent starting or quitting times for any of the above shift arrangements.  
(e) (1) On a three (3) shift operation commencing on Monday at the established starting time  
for the day shift then in effect, the 15th or Friday graveyard shift ending on or before 8:00 a.m. Saturday  
morning will be considered Friday work.  
(2) The Saturday graveyard shift ending on or before 8:00 a.m. Sunday morning will be con-  
sidered Saturday work. The Sunday graveyard shift ending on or before 8:00 a.m. Monday morning will  
be considered Sunday work.  
(3) Work performed at times considered Saturday and Sunday under multiple shift arrange-  
ments shall be paid for at the appropriate straight-time hourly rate.  
If maintenance or remodeling or new construction work cannot be performed on a regular shift  
because of the fact that establishments cannot suspend operations during the day, a special single or sec-  
ond shift may be employed starting at a time coinciding with required operations of the establishment,  
Monday through Friday. The employees on these shifts will work eight (8) consecutive hours, exctusive  
of a meal period, for which they shall receive cight (8) hours pay at the straight lime rate. Four (4) ten (10)  
hour days may be utilized Monday through Friday at straight time rate. Notification to the Union is  
required before commencement of work in this paragraph.  
(g) The Employer may, in Zone |, 2 & 3, after first notifying the Union, work a work week  
consisting of 10 hours per day for four (4) consecutive days between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.,  
Monday through Friday; providing al! trades on the worksite work the same shift.  
### SECTION X  
### HOLIDAYS  
The following days are recognized as holidays: New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday  
Day), Memorial Day, 4th of July, Labor Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after  
Thanksgiving, Christmas Day. Note: with respect to millwrights, Admission Day is a recognized holiday  
17  
in lieu of Veteran's Day for all Nevada Counties except for Clark, Lincoln, Nye and Esmeralda. If any of  
the above holidays should fall on a Sunday, the Monday following shalt be considered a recognized holi-  
day. Work on such days shall be paid for at the overtime rate. No work shall be performed on Labor Day,  
except lo preserve life and property.  
When it is necessary for an Employer to have work performed on Saturdays, Sundays or holi-  
days, then it shall be the responsibility of the Employer to notify the Union.  
### SECTION XI  
### SHOWUP TIME  
Other than on the first day of dispatch, in which case two (2) hours shall apply, men who report  
for work, for whom no work is provided, shall be entitled to two (2) hours, pay at the regular hourly rate  
for so reporting unless he has been notified before his last preceding shift not to report, and any employee  
who reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay; and if  
more than four hours are worked in any one day he shall receive not less than the hours worked for that  
day, unless prevented from working for reasons beyond the control of the Employer, including but not lim-  
ited to such factors as inclement weather or breakdown causing discontinuance of a major unit of the proj-  
ect, during which time employees are not required or requested to remain on the project by the Employer  
or his agent.  
No show-up time will be applicable when a workman reports in a physically unfit condition to  
work or fails to report to the jobsite within one hour after being dispatched to a job located within twenty  
(20) miles from the Union, or refuses to work when assigned by the Employer, or reports to the job and  
fails to have the traditional tools of the trade necessary to perform the job. The provisions on nol paying  
show-up time as set forth in this Section shall also be applicable to the requirements of paying zone pay to  
an employee reporting to a zone beyond twenty (20) miles from the Las Vegas Area Free Zone as set forth  
in Section VIII of this Agreement. The employee wilt furnish the Employer with his current address and  
telephone number at the time of employment.  
Carpenters discharged on the first day of employment for inefficiency, insubordination or intox-  
ication, shall receive pay only for hours worked. Carpenters who voluntarily quit shall receive pay only  
for hours worked.  
DISCHARGED EMPLOYEE: E:nployees recciving notice of termination for any reason shall  
be allowed a reasonable time (not less than fifteen (15) minutes) before the end of the regular work day to  
assemble their tools in addition to the normat pickup time prevailing on the job.  
After the third (3rd) day of employment, the individual employer may discharge any employce  
for just cause only. Just cause is subject to the grievance and arbitration provision of this Agreement. The  
individual Employer during the first three (3) days of employment may reject or discharge any employee  
for any reason. Discharge for cause shail be in writing to the employce.  
### SECTION  
### PRE-JOB CONFERENCE  
Pre-job conferences on all projects covered under the terms of this Agreeinent shall be held as  
follows:  
The individual Employer shall at his option or at the option of the Union or Regional  
Council, call for a pre-job conference. If the Union or Regional Council desires, it shall be entitled to a  
pre-job conference solely with the individual Employer. The Employer may include his sub-  
contractors al such conference.  
18  
(2) The individual Employer shall advise the Union or Regional Council, in writing, at all times  
of the names (including trade names and names of individual or partners who signed the sub-  
contract) and addresses of all subcontractors or his subcontractors employed or to be employed or, con-  
tracted with for services to be performed under this Agreement. Such written notice shalt be made at the  
pre-job conference or ten (10) days prior to the commencement of work by any such subcontractor.  
### SECTION XII  
### PAYMENT OF WAGES  
All wages must be paid on the jobsite weekly on Fridays, no Jater than one-half hour before  
quitting time. The Employer may not hold back more than seven (7) calendar days pay. When an employ-  
ce is laid off or discharged, the employee must be paid in full at the time of such layoff or discharge. All  
employees must be paid wages duc to them on Fridays or at the lime of the layoff or discharge, and if not,  
then pay shall accumulate for all time that such employec is not paid on the basis of eight hours per day  
on a seven day basis until payment is made.  
When employees are paid by check on other than a local bank, the Employer shall make  
arrangements for a local bank to honor his checks. The Employer will not require a lien waiver as a con-  
dition precedent to the receipt of a payroll check. All wages shall be paid by paycheck only. The individ-  
ual Employer shall show on the paycheck stubs the individual Employer's name, business address, payroll  
ending date, total hours, total overtime hours, itemized deductions and net pay, plus each contribution made  
with respect to that payroll period.  
Whenever an employee resigns or quits his employment, the wages and compensation earned  
and unpaid at the time of such resignation or quitting shall be paid within twenty-four (24) hours after a  
demand therefore. The Employer may not in any case, however, withhold the employee's final check for  
a period longer than three (3) days unless the delay is caused by circumstances beyond the control of the  
Employer.  
If the Employer lays off men prior to payday, they must pay the men in full at the time of ter-  
mination of employment. Any employee discharged or laid off in the afternoon shall receive pay until the  
regular quitting time of the shift. Al! employees, upon termination, shall be allowed sufficient time to  
assemble their tools before leaving the job.  
The Employer agrees to furnish such payroll information as may be necessary as requested by  
the Union in order to determine whether there has been any violation of the wage, fringe benefits, or other  
conditions of employment of the Agreement.  
### SECTION XIV  
### Nl cP ENTATILYV  
|. A Union Representative, full-time, credentialed by the Regional Council, or steward shall  
have access to the job during working hours for the purpose of checking the manner in which the terms of  
this Agreement are being complied with. He shall make every reasonable effort to advise the individual  
Employer or his representatives of his presence on the job and shall not stop or interfere with the work of  
any workman without the permission of the individual Eimployer or his representative unless the Union  
Representative determines that there has been a violation of the Agreement by the Employer. No Union  
Representative, or steward shall be discriminated against for performing his duties under this Agreement.  
Stewards,  
The steward is to receive grievances or disputes from employee members of his craft and shall  
iinmediately report them to his business representative, who shall immediately attempt to adjust the griev-  
ance or dispute with the Employer or his representative.  
The steward shall be a working employee selected by the Union who shall, in additton to his  
regutarly assigned work, be permitted to perform during working hours such of his steward's dulies as can-  
not be performed otherwise. The Union agrees that such duties shall be performed as expeditiously, as pos-  
sible, and the Employer agrees to allow the steward a reasonable amount of time for the performance of  
his duties, including, in addition to his normal duties, obtaining informatton on safety and sanitation.  
The Union shall notify the Employer or his representative, in writing, of the appointment of the  
steward. The Employer or his representative can lay off or discharge the steward for cause only, and the  
Employer shal! notify the Union, in writing, of his intention to do so one (1) full working day prior to such  
layoff or discharge on projects within fifty (50) mites of the hiring halt, and give two (2) working days  
notice on projects located over fifty (50) miles from the hiring hall,  
It is recognized by the Employer that the employee selected as the steward shall remain on the job  
whenever carpenters overtime is worked and as long as there is work he is qualified to perform. The stew-  
ard shall not be discharged or laid off for the performance of his Union duties.  
### SECTION XV  
### NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
(a) It is the purpose and the intent of the parties hereto that all grievances or disputes arising  
between them over the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement shall be by the  
procedure set forth in this section and that during the term of this Agreement, the Union on whose behalf  
this Agreement is made shall not, during the tern hereof, call, engage in, sanction or assist in a strike  
against or any slowdown or stoppage of the work of the Contractor, and will require the employces il rep-  
resents to perform their services for the Contractors on the work described herein when required by said  
Contractors to do so; and during the term of this Agreement, a Contractor signatory to this Agreement shall  
not cause or permit any lockout of the employees represented by the Union on whose behalf this  
Agreement is made on work described herein.  
In cases of violation, misunderstanding, or differences of opinion in interpretation of this  
Agreement by either party, there shall be no cessation or stoppage of work except as in the case where a  
signatory Employer fails to pay wages due or is delinquent in contributions to any Trust Fund established  
under this Agreement. Should a controversy, dispute or disagreement arise during the term of this  
Agreement over the interpretation and operations of this Agreement, the difference shall be adjusted in the  
following manner:  
All complaints, to have any validity, must be filed in writing within twenty (20) days after the  
matter in dispute or disagreement is alleged to have occurred. Errors in paychecks must be filed in writ-  
ing within ten (10) working days from payday. Upon receipt of a written report setting forth in detail the  
nature of the specific issue in controversy, a representative of the Union and a representative of the  
Employer shall attempt to reach a settlement of the dispute, [fa settlement is not reached within five (5)  
days, the matter shall be submitted to the Grievance and Arbitration/Administration Trust Fund.  
Two (2) members shall be appointed by the Employer involved, or his designated representa-  
tive, and two (2) shalt be appointed by the Union.  
The Fund administrator shall establish procedures for the processing and scheduling of griev-  
ances in a limely manner, The Grievance and Arbitration Trust Fund shall have established a panel of inde-  
pendent and neutral arbitrators to hear and determine such grievances and disputes, with authorily to issue  
20  
   
final and binding awards, including appropriate remedies. The fee and all incidental expenses  
shall be paid by the Trust Fund.  
No jurisdictional disputes involving the Union on whose behalf this Agreement is made shall  
be submitted under this grievance and arbitration procedure, but shall be determined in the manner pro-  
vided in Section Il of this Agreement. All disputes or grievances arising out of the interpretation or appli-  
cation of any terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be submitted for determination, and shall be  
determined by the procedures set forth in this Section XV. ft is expressly understood and agreed that in the  
event of arbitration, the arbitrator, in determining any grievance or dispute shall have no authority to mod-  
ify, vary, change, add to or remove any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement.  
### SECTION XVI  
### TOOLS  
(a) The individual Employer shall provide on each jobsite a secure place where the cmployces  
may keep their tools.  
(b) Carpenters and apprentices shall furnish their own tools, but shall not furnish sawhorses,  
ladders, miter boxes, electric drills, power bils, power operated machines, electric cords, power saws or  
automotive equipment to be used for the purpose of hauling or delivering the Employer's materials or  
equipment, Each employee shall arrive on the jobsite with tools in a proper condition. [f necessary, the  
employces shall be allowed a reasonable amount of time during the work weck to sharpen their tools on  
the Employer's time. If the Employer so chooses, he may send out employee's saws to be sharpened by a  
commercial saw sharpener.  
(c) The Employer shall not contract with any workman or with any member of the family of a  
workman employed under this Agreement either by way of a Icase, loan, or sale unless such member of the  
family is engaged in a bona fide licensed regular business regarding such tools.  
(d) If any individual full box of working tools is lost by reason of fire, theft or  
forcible entry while in the individual Employer's care, the individual Employer shall reimburse the employ-  
ee for such loss up to a maximum of five hundred dollars (500,00) within five (5) working days from the  
date of claim for loss of tools as provided herein, the individual Employer shall acknowledge liability  
therefore or reject the claim. To imptement this section, the individual carpenter shall provide an exact  
written inventory of tools within five (5) days after starting the job.  
### SECTION XVIi  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
(a) Iced drinking water or, at the option of the Employer, electric coolers, shall be furnished on -  
the jobsite at all times and sufficient sanitary cups furnished. Sanitary toilets must be furnished on all jobs  
in accordance with the applicable loca! and state health and sanitation laws. The Employer, shall provide  
a shelter for men to use at lunch time if no vehicle is available in the immediate locality of the project.  
(b) The Employer will carry adequate insurance for compensation of injured workinen. The  
Employer and all employees mutually recognize the need for the provision and maintenance of safe work-  
ing conditions, the observance of proper safety practices with respect to the use of tools, equipment and  
supplies, and compliance with all applicable federal and state safety rules and regulations. Esnployees  
are required to report work injuries immediately to the Employer upon occurrence. Employces shail not  
be required to work under hazardous conditions when the performance of such work is in contravention to  
applicable Federal and State Safety Rules and Regulations. First aid kits must be provided and maintained  
on the jobsite.  
2]  
The Employer will immediately notify the Union by telephone of any industrial accident  
involving an employee covered by this Agreement that is of a nature that is required lo be reported to the  
State of Nevada under applicable State laws. Where an employee ts required to work in a hazardous area  
where there is a mutually recognized hazard and exposure to possible injury, such employee shall not be  
required to work alone.  
{c) The Employer shall not refuse to hire for employment an applicant who is physically able  
to perform his work or discharge or discriminate against such an employee, because of any industrial injury  
incurred by the workman prior to employment or because of the filing of a claim for workers’ compensa-  
tion benefits.  
(d) Each employee employed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall receive the  
minimum hourly wage cates specified in this Agreement. Any other tnethod of paying employees, such as  
the use of piecework, bonus systems, quota setting or lumping of the work, shall be deemed a violation of  
this Agreement. Work performed under this Agreement shall be done by the employees of the Employer  
on an hourly basis subject to the subcontracting provisions of this Agreement, and the Employer recognizes  
those sections of the Constitution and Bylaws of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of  
America which prohibit its members from contracting for labor only, The contracting Employer agrees  
that all work covered by this Agreement shall be performed by carpenters and that such workinen shall be  
employees of the Employer or the subcontractor employed under the terms of this Agreement, The provi-  
sions regarding piecework and minimum hourly wage rates shall not be applicable in the event a carpenter  
is employed under Appendix “D" and “E” relating to residential housing and drywall housing construction.  
(ec) An employce who as a result of an on-the-job industrial injury is unable to complete a fuil  
day's work shall be paid for the full day on which such injury occurred, provided, however, that such pay-  
ment need not be paid where said injury does not require the attention of a physician who has certified the  
employee's inability to complete the work on that day because of such injury. If the employee is required  
lo keep a doctor's appointment during working hours and such doctor's appointinent is the direct result of  
an on-the-job accident, then his pay will continue for the time he is absent from the job for such  
doctor's office visit provided he furnishes satisfactory proof to the Employer.  
(f) When any protective equipment or clothing is necessary, all such equipment or clothing shall  
be furnished by the Employer.  
(g) Employees shall not be discriminated against for failure to work behind a picket line sanc-  
tioned by the Building Trades Council having jurisdiction over the area in which the work is performed.  
(h) Neither the Employer nor the Union will discriminate against a person with respect to  
employment or Union membership because of race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin or ancestry.  
This provision shall apply to hiring, placement for employment, training during employment, rates of pay,  
or other forms of compensation and benefits, setection for training including apprenticeship, layoff or ter-  
mination, and application for admission to Union membership.  
(i) The Contractor shall provide or pay for, parking facilities for employees where free parking  
is not available within three blocks of the job, or one-quarter (1/4) mile, whichever is fess. Where payment  
is applicable, payment shall be made to the carpenter who turns in a parking check stub for retmbursement  
of actual cost. Such parking check stubs may be turned in weekly or on termination of employment,  
whichever occurs sooner.  
(j) The parties to this Agreement recognize and understand that it would be inconsistent with  
the industry custom and practice to prohibit individuals, under normal conditions, during the first half of  
the shift, a 15 minute unorganized break at his or her assigned work area,  
22  
### SECTION XVIII  
### UNION SECURITY  
(a) The following Union Shop clause shall become operative if and when a court of competent  
jurisdiction should decide that a Union Shop provision as provided herein is lawful within the State of  
Nevada:  
Employces employed by one or more of the Employers subject to this Agreement for a period  
of eight (8) days continuously or cumulatively shalt be or become after the cight day period or cight days  
after the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is fater, members of the appropriate Local Union and  
shail remain members of the appropriate Local Union as a condition of continued employment.  
Membership in the appropriate Local Union shall be available upon terms and qualifications nol  
more burdensome than those applicable at such times to other applicants for membership in the Union.  
### SECTION XIX  
### SAVINGS CLAUSE  
[1 is not the intent of cither party hereto to violate any laws, rulings or regulations of any gov-  
ernmental authority or agency having jurisdiction over the subject matter of this Agreement, and the par-  
ties agree that in the event that any provisions of this Agreement are finally held or determined to be ille-  
gal or void as being in contravention of any such laws, rulings, or regulations, nevertheless the remainder  
of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless the parts so found to be void are fully insep-  
arable from the remaining portion of this Agreement. The parties agrce that if and when any provisions of  
this Agreement are held or determined to the illegal or void, they will then promptly enter in lawful nego-  
liations concerning the substance thereof.  
### SECTION XX  
### FOREMEN  
The selection of an individual who will be the carpenter foreman is at the sole discretion of the  
Employer. It is understood that a foreman shali be an employee, employed under the terms of this  
Agreement and the dispatching and hiring provisions of Appendix “A”, and shall receive the foreman’s dif-  
ferential pay. Such foreman may work with the tools of the trade except as hereinafter provided. Whenever  
there are four or more journeyman employees, one must be designated as the foreman. When a carpenter  
is designated as a foreman and is assigned the responsibilily of supervising ten (10) or more employecs, he  
shall not be allowed to work as a journeyman except for the purpose of instruction or for incidental assis-  
tance to a journeyman or apprentice, In case more than two foremen are employed on the same shifl ona  
single job, there shall be designated a general foreman. Any foreman who does not work with his tools  
during regular working hours cannot work with his tools on overtime or on Saturdays, Sundays or holi-  
days. For this purpose a Foreman is described as a Journeyman who receives direction from a  
Superintendent or General Foreman to direct, supervise or instruct any group or crew of carpenters, with  
the knowledge that he or she is responsible for a segment of the project.  
### SECTION XX1  
### SURETY BOND  
A. Each employer signatory to, or bound by, this Agreement shall furnish a Fringe Benefit Payment Bond,  
tetter of credit or similar security in such form as may be approved by the Board of Trustees of the var-  
ious trust funds as follows:  
23  
‘E YE E, M T  
0-5 15,000.00  
6-12 25,000.00  
13-25 50,000.00  
26 - 50 100,000.00  
51-75 150,000.00  
76 or more 200,000.00  
B. Said Bonds (or other suitable security) shafl be in favor of the currently designated Administrator (or  
whomsoever the Board of Trustees shall designate) of all the aforesaid Fringe Benefit Trust Funds  
referred to in this Agreement. In the event an Employer fails to furnish a Fringe Benefit Payment Bond  
{or other suitable security} within ten (10) days after requested, in accordance with the above proce-  
dure, the Union shall be relieved of ali obligations under this Agreement insofar as concerns such  
Employer. In addition, in order to preserve its own jnterests and protect ils members, immediately  
upon knowledge of any such event, the Union shall authorize and direct its members to refuse to work  
for such Employer.  
-  
### SECTION XXIl  
### EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION  
This Agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 200) and shall in full force and effect to  
and including June 30, 2004 and continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter unless can-  
celed or modified as herein provided. Either party to the Agreement may give written notice to the other  
of a desire to change, modify or terminate the Agceement al least sixty (60) days prior to June 30, 2004 or  
June 30 of any succeeding year.  
The Union agrees that in the event that either party should exercise its right under the first paragraph of  
this Section, the Union will for a period of sixty (60) days prior to June 30 of any such year, bargain with  
the Employer with respect to oll wage rates, working conditions and hours of employment for this work  
herein covered, and the Employer agrees to bargain in the same manner. [f no Agreement is entered into  
between the partics by July | of any year in which such notice shall be given, then this Agreement there-  
upon shall cease and terminate.  
### DATE  
### PAINTING AND DECORATING  
### CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA  
### ADDRESS  
1701 Whitney Mesa Drive, #104  
Henderson, NV 89014  
TELEP (702) 650-5705  
### SIGNED BY:  
### BY:  
### TITLE:  
24  
### DATE  
### SOUTHWEST REGIONAL COUNCIL  
### OF CARPENTERS AND  
### AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS  
### S01 NORTH LAMB BLVD.  
### LAS VEGAS, NV 89110  
(702) 453-2206  
### APPENDIX “A”  
### HIRING PROVISIONS  
In the employment of workmen for ali work covered by this in the territory  
described, the following provisions shall govern:  
(a) The Local Unions shal! establish and maintain open and nondiscriminatory employment on  
work covered by this Agreement.  
lt is agreed by the Employer and the Union to fulty comply with all the provisions of the fed-  
eral and state laws to the end that no person shall, on the grounds of sex, race, color, national origin, or  
membership or non-membership in a labor union, be excluded from participation in or be denied the ben-  
efits of the terms of this Agrecment or otherwise subjected to discrimination by not having full access to  
the terms of this Agreement. The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from  
any losses or damages resulting from any act or omission of the Union in breaching or failing to comply  
with all such laws and regulations, not however, including court costs and attorneys fees not authorized by  
the Union.  
(b) The Employer shall first cal! upon the Local Union having jurisdiction for such :nen as the  
Employer may from time to time need, and the respective Local Union shal! furnish to the Employer the  
required number of qualified and competent workmen of the classification requested by the Employer  
strictly in accordance with the provision of this section.  
(c) It shall be the responsibility of the Employer when ordering men to give (he Local Union all  
of the pertinent information regarding the workmen's employment, to enable the dispatch of the workmen  
required,  
(d) The Local Union will furnish, in accordance with the request of the individual Employes,  
such qualified and competent workmen of the classifications needed from among those entered on the  
employment lists, to the individual Employer by use of a wrilten ceferral in the following order of prefer-  
ence on a nondiscriminatory basis, and shall not be based on or in any way affected by Union membership,  
by-laws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions or any other aspect or obligation of Union member-  
ship policies or requirements. All applicants for referrals to jobs shall receive equal consideration for  
cinployment without regard to sex, race, creed, color or national origin, in conformity with the require-  
ments of the federal and state laws.  
(e) The selection of qualified, competent workmen and the order of preference on dispatching  
of such workmen shall be on the following basis:  
(1) To qualify for referral as a journcyman, the applicant must submit evidence either  
of satisfactorily having completed a course in apprenticeship training conducted by or under the DIREC-  
TION (discretion) of the standards of the Bureau of Apprenticeship, United States Department of Labor,  
or he shall submit satisfactory written proof that he has at least four (4) years experience in the carpenter  
trade.  
(2) The Union shall maintain a register of all applicants so qualified, established on the basis of  
the groups listed below, each applicant being registered in the highest priority group for which he quali-  
fies:  
CARPENTER LIST. Journeyman Carpenters, form builders, setters, layout, finish, framers and welders,  
25  
DRYWALL LIST. Journeyman Drywallers, metal framer, acoustic specialists, lathers, layout and welders.  
(f) The Employer inay request by name any qualified workman whose name is on the out-of-  
work list. On jobs with no on site or in office hiring or solicitation then, one worker in four (4) must be  
requested off the top of the list.  
(g) The dispatcher at the Local Union in the first instance, in accordance with the provisions of  
this sectton, will determine whether a workman is qualified to register and into what group or list he shall  
be placed. This determination will normally be based upon information or papers which the workman or  
the Employer supplies. [f any doubt exists as to any material matter, the dispatcher may call or otherwise  
make a prompt investigation to get any facts required.  
(h) The Local Union shall post at the hiring hall of the Local Union all Provisions, including  
the terms of this Agreement and any hiring hall procedures adopted by the Union and not in conflict with  
terms of the Agreement. Copies of such hiring halt procedures shall be posted in an area where notices to  
applicants for employment with the individual Employers are customarily posted,  
(i) When ordering workmen, the individual Employer will give written notice to the Local  
Union, if possible, no later than 2:30 p.m. of the day prior (Monday through Friday), or in any event not  
fess than twelve (12) hours, if possible, before the reporting time. In the event forty-eight (48) hours elapse  
alter such notice without the Local Union furnishing any workmen, (Saturdays, Sundays and recognized  
Holidays exclude} the individual employer may procure workmen from any other source or sources. If  
workmen are so employed, the individual Employer shall promptly report, to the appropriate Local Union,  
each such workmen by name.  
(j) Subject to the terms of this Section, the individual Employer retains the right to reject any  
referred by the Union for any reason, and the individual Employer may discharge an employee  
for any cause which he may deem sufficient, provided, however, in the hinng or discharging there shall not  
be any discrimination on the part of the Employer against any employee for activities in behalf of or in rep-  
resentation of the Union not interfering with the proper performance of his duties. In the event the  
Employer does not hire the workman dispatched, the Employer shall pay such workman a minimum of two  
(2) hours show-up pay at the hourly rate and all fringe benefits for his classification in Zone | and a min-  
imum of four (4) hours in Zone 2 & 3.  
No show-up time will be applicable when a workman reports tn a physically unfit condition to  
work or fails to report to the jobsite within one hour after being dispatched to a job located within twenty  
(20) miles from the Locat Union Hall, or refuses to work when assigned by the Employer, or reports to the  
job and fails to have the traditional tools of the trade necessary to perform the job, The provisions on not  
paying show-up lime as set forth in this section shall also be applicable to the requireinent of paying zone  
pay to an employee reporting to a zone beyond twenty (20) miles from the Las Vegas Area Free Zone as  
set forth in Section VIII of this Agreement.  
(k) When requesting an apprentice from the Union and such apprentice is not called by name,  
then the Union shall dispatch an apprentice from the hiring list in the order that the apprentice has signed  
the list, regardless of the year of such apprentice's training. Nothing in this subsection shall change the  
existing practice of (for) hiring apprentices directly by the or calling for an apprentice by name  
from the Union's hiring list,  
(I) The Employer will provide a printed form for handout by the Union at tine of dispatch indicat-  
ing necessary forms of identification required by lminigration to establish eligibility to work under Federal Law.  
(mm) The use of, or being under the influence of drugs or alcohol (substance abuse) during work-  
26  
ing hours will not be tolerated. A drug abuse prevention & detection program is hereby adopted incorpo-  
rated as Appendix  
### APPENDIX B  
### CARPENTER WAGE RATES FOR LOCAL #897 JURISDICTION  
The geographic jurisdiction of Local Union 897 as defined in Appendix “G" is meant to be the City of  
Searchlight and all area South in the State of Nevada. An area in California that includes the City of  
Needles, and an area in Arizona that includes the Cities of Bullhead City, Kingman, Lake Havasu City and  
Parker. A detailed map provided upon request.  
Residential Package (As defined in Appendix “E”)  
7/01/2001  
Wage 15.10  
H&W 3.32  
Supplementat Dues 38  
Apprenticeship _15  
Tota! $18.95  
Light Commercial Package (As defined in Appendix “F”’)  
7/01/2001  
Wage 18.01  
H&W 3,32  
Pension A 2.42  
Vacation/Sup. Dues 1.38 (.93/.45)  
Apprenticeship  
Total $25.28  
Non-Casino Commercial Package (Over $5 Million)  
7/01/2001  
Wage 21.10  
H&W 3.32  
Pension A 2.42  
Pension B 1.00  
Vacation/Sup. Dues 1.63 1.00/.63  
Apprenticeship _ 20  
Total $29.67  
Casino Work and Public Works Current Master Labor Agreement  
These rates will be reviewed annually by the Work Preservation Committee and adjusted as necessary.  
27  
### APPENDIX "C"  
### SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR  
### RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION  
The following special provisions shall apply for all residential construction for the purpose of this  
Appendix “D” “Residential” shall be defined as follows:  
"RESIDENTIAL" DEFINITION: Al! residential wood frame construction, not more than four  
(4) stories in height above the exterior grade, such as, but not limited to, single family dwellings, condo-  
Miniums, townhouses, apartment houses and mobile home parks. Hotels, motels, assisted living facilitics  
are expressly excluded.  
Except as specifically set forth in this Appendix, each and every term and condition of the Labor  
Agreement shall apply to the Employer and Union. The Union reserves the right to enter into a specific  
housing agreement based on need and conditions dcemed necessary with that individual employer.  
### APPENDIX "E"  
### LIGHT COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION  
(a) The following special provisions for Light Commercial Construction shall apply:  
### (1) “LIGHT COMMERCIAL" DEFINITION:  
All wood frame, concrete block, tift-up and poured-in-place concrete construction not more  
ihan four (4) stories in height, such as, but not limited to, shopping centers, stores, office building, ware-  
houses, and fast food establishments, but excluding hotel-motel gaming projects where a Nevada unlimit-  
ed gambling license or live gambling will be in effect; and where the total cost of the project does not  
exceed five million dollars ($5 million), including curb, gutter and sidewalk.  
(2) The light commercial project definition, as stated above, shall apply to a tenant improve-  
ment project, regardless of the number of on work in an existing structure which is not part of a  
new project.  
(3) Requests to apply provisions of the Light Commercial, Appendix “E” to projects over the  
five million dollars ($5 million} limit, and where the project meets the definition in paragraph (a), and  
where non-union competition exists are encouraged. Application should be made directly to the Union on  
forms provided. These forms include information as to bid date, other bidders and relief requested. The  
form may be obtained from employer associations or directly from the Union, Request must he received  
at a minimum of five (5) working days prior to bid date.  
All light commercial projects, as defined above, the minimum hourly rate shall be seventy-five  
pereent (75%) of the current carpenter rate, plus the current contribution of Pension B, Plus  
the current Journeyman rate for vacation (exclusive of dues check-off), shall constitute the rate of pay for  
Journeyman under Appendix “E” of this Agreement.  
Apprentices shall have their percentage rate plus Pension B and vacation when appropriate.  
The provisions of Appendix "E” shall not apply on public works projects covered by the Davis  
Bacon Act or other prevailing wage regulations.  
28  
Except as specifically set forth in this Appendix, each and every term and condition of the  
Master Labor Agreement shall apply to the Employer and Union  
### A. VACATION SAVINGS PLAN, HEALTH AND INSURANCE PLAN, PENSION PLAN,  
### APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING, GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION/ ADMINISTRATION AND CAR-  
### PENTERS-CONTRACTORS COOPERATION COMMITTEE.  
The Employer shall contribute to each of the Trust Funds as provided in Section Vi of the mas-  
ter labor Agreement in the amounts set forth untess modified in this Appendix E._  
  
* i  
ourncyman Car Craft Assistant (Stocker/Scrapper)  
Wages = 7/01/2001 22.43 Wages 12.50  
Fringe Benefits Wages 7/01/02 13.00  
Wages 7/01/03 13.70  
Pension A 2.42 Fringe Benefits  
Annuity B 1.00  
Health & Welfare 3.32 Health & Welfare 3.32  
Supplemental Dues 63 Supplemental Dues 25  
Apprenticeship 35 Apprenticeship  
C/ICCC 10 Total 4.72  
Grievance & Arb. OS + wage  
National Apprent. 4  
6.91  
+ wage  
Wage 7101/01 17.50  
Wage THO 1/02 18.00  
Wage 7/01/03 18.50  
Fringe Benefits  
Pension Annuity B 1.00  
Health & Welfare 3.32  
Supplemental Dues 50  
Apprenticeship 15  
4.97  
+ wage  
Concrete specialists and craft assistant categories may be used by contractors on work that  
meets the definition in this Appendix. They are not required to do so.  
Other modifications can be made to the wages and fringe benefit contribution rate on a project  
basis by utilizing the Work Preservation Commitice on work defined in this Appendix.  
If either party wants to reopen Appendix E to renegotiate wages or fringe bencfit contributions,  
such party must provide the other party written notice at least 30 days prior to July 1, 2002.  
### 2. OVERTIME  
The conditions as set forth-in Section [X in this Master Labor Agreement shall apply unless  
modified under this Appendix.  
### 3. OTHER PROVISIONS  
29  
When an employee has been prevented from working for reasons beyond the control of the  
Employer, such as inclement weather, or mechanical failure, during the regularly scheduled work weck,  
upon prior wrilten notification to the Union, a makeup shift (whole day only) may be worked on Saturday  
for which the employee shal! reccive cight (8) hours’ pay at the straight time rate of pay.  
Overtime: Time and one-half (1x 1/2) shall be paid for the first four (4) hours outside of the reg-  
ular scheduted shift Monday through Friday and the first twelve (12) hours on Saturday. All overtime on  
Sundays and Holidays shatl be paid at double (2x) time.  
In the Light Commercial Industry the Employer may cimploy a ratio of (1) one Apprentice (1)  
one Craft Assistant, and (1} one Concrete Specialist, for every Carpenter Journeyman. These Non-  
Journeyman will work under the direct supervision of the Carpenter Journeyman and will perform but not  
be limited to such duties as stocking, scrapping, nailing off, clean-up and any other ancillary duties  
assigned to them by the Journeyman, they are assigned to work with.  
Apprentices will be dispatched at the appropriate percent of wages for the Light Commercial  
Journeyman rate with benefits as specified in section V of the Master Labor Agreement cxcept as modified  
in Appendix E,  
Unless otherwise specified, all other and/or conditions as set forth in the Master  
Labor Agreement shall apply.  
### APPENDIX "F"  
### DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION  
### AND DETECTION  
The parties recognize the problems which drug and alcohol! abuse have created in the construc-  
tion industry and the need to develop drug and alcohol abuse prevention programs. Accordingly, the par-  
ties agree that in ordee to enhance the safety of the work place and to maintain a drug and alcohol free work  
environment, individual employers may require applicants or employees to undergo drug testing. The par-  
ties agree thal if a testing program is implemented by an individual Employer, the following items have  
been agreed upon by Labor and Management:  
(a) It is understood that the use, possession, transfer, or sale of illegal drugs, narcotics, or other  
substances ts absolutely prohibited while are on the Employer's job premises or while  
working on any site in connection with work performed under the applicable agreement.  
(b) All applicants or newly hired emptoyees will undergo a drug test at the direction of the  
Employer, but not later than five (5) days after commencement of work, at a facility agreed upon by the  
Emptoyer and the Union. The cutoff levels for both the initial test and the confirmation test will be those  
established by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. The facility where the sample is  
tested will be approved by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. The Employer agrees  
to pay each applicant or employee who takes and passes the drug test for all the time it takes to undergo  
the drug test up to a maximum of two (2) hours travel time ptus lab time. [fan employee fails the drug test  
and has time coming to him or her, the employer may withhold the cost of the drug test from the final  
check.  
(c) Applicants not passing the drug test will not be placed on the Employer's payroll or receive  
any compensation. Employees not passing the drug test will be removed from the Employers payroll. The  
Employer agrees to pay the cost for administering the drug test.  
30  
(d) The Employer may require that an employee be tested for drugs and alcohol where the  
Employer has reasonable cause to believe that the employee is impaired from performing his/her job.  
Observation must be made by at least two (2) persons, one (1) of whom may be a Union employee. This  
provision shal} be applied in a non-discriminatory manner. Supervisors will administer the program in a  
fair and confidential manner. For employees who refuse to take a test where the prerequisites set forth in  
this paragraph have been met, there will be a rebuttable that the test result would have been  
positive for an unlawful substance.  
(e) An Employer may require that an employee who contributed to an accident be tested for  
drugs and alcohol where the Employer has reasonable causc to believe that the accident resulted from drug  
usage.  
(f) There will be no random drug testing by the signatory Employer.  
(g) It is understood that the unsafe use of prescribed medication, or where the use of  
prescribed medication impairs the ability to perform work, is a basis for removal.  
(h) A sufficient amount of a sample shall be taken to allow for an initial test and confirmation  
test. The initial test will be an Enzyme Multiplied Immunoassa Technique (E M 1 T). In the event a ques-  
tion or positive result arises from the initial test a confirmation test must be utilized before action can be  
taken against the employee or applicant. The confirmation tcst will be by Gas Chromatography-Mass  
Spectrometry (G C/M S). The cutoff levels for both the initial test and confirmation test will be those  
established by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. Confirmed positive samples will  
be retained by the testing laboratory in secured long term frozen storage for a minimum of one (1) year.  
Collection and transportation of each sample must be done in accordance with the procedures mandated  
by the Federal Department of Health and Human Scrvices.  
(i) Present if tested positive, shall have the prerogative for a rehabilitation program  
at the employee's expense. When such program has been successfully completed, the Employer shall not  
discriminate in any way against the employee. If work for which the is qualified, exists, he or  
she shall be reinstated.  
(j) Any dispute which arises under this drug and alcohol policy shall be subinitted to the griev-  
ance and arbitration procedure set forth in the applicable Agreement. |  
(k) In the event an individual Employer is required, as a condition of contract award, to abide  
by the terms and conditions of an owner's drug and alcohol policy, the Employer will notify the interested  
Unions in writing prior to implementing such policy.  
(1) The establishment or operation of this policy shall not curtail any right of an employee found  
in any law, cule or regulation. Should any part of this policy be found unlawful by a court of competent  
jurisdiction or a public agency having jurisdiction over the parties, the remaining portions of the policy  
shat] be unaffected and the parties shall enter negotiations to replace the affected provision.  
(m) The Employer shall indemnify and hold the Union harmless against any and all claims,  
demands, suits or liabilities that may arise solely out of the Employer's application of the Substance Abuse  
Program.  
(n) The Employers will be allowed to conduct periodic jobsite drug testing on construction proj-  
ects until completion of work under the following circumstances:  
The entire jobsite must be tested including all employces of the Employer.  
31  
(2) Prior to start of periodic jobsite testing the Employer will notify the Union in writing.  
(3) Analysis shall be conducted by a Federat Department of Health and Human Services certi-  
fied lab.  
(4) The parties agree to investigate the possibility of industry-wide pre-hire and random drug  
testing. Should this plan be enacted, the Employers will contribute up to .02¢ per hour for same.  
(o) This policy will become effective July 1, 2001.  
32  
### NOTES  
33