"6/6/30 K9837  
Palmas Services (San Angel Inn and  
springs Food Services)  
(the “Company’’)  
and  
UNITE HERE Local 737  
(the “Union”)  
Full-Time Bargaining Unit  
Effective: April 1, 2015  
Expiration: March 31, 2018  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
   
‘16/6/30 2:54 PM  
### ARTICLE 10 ~ OVERTIME 23  
SECTION 10.1. Management 23  
SECTION 10.2. Division of Overtime Work 23  
SECTION 10.3. Involuntary Overtime 24  
SECTION 10.4, Time and One-Half 199 WS 24  
SECTION 10.5. Double Time 25  
SECTION 10.6. Turn About 25  
SECTION 10.7. No Pyramiding of Premium Rates 26  
### ARTICLE 11 - JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES 27  
### SECTION 11.1. Schedule of Wage Rates 27  
SECTION 11.2. Rates for New Jobs 27  
SECTION 11.3. Night Shift Premium 27  
SECTION 11.4, Report 27  
SECTION 11.5. Pay for Day When Injured 28  
SECTION 11.6. Payday 28  
SECTION 11.7. 29  
SECTION 11.8. 30  
### ARTICLE 12 -SENIORITY AND WORK 31  
SECTION 12.1, Definition of 31  
SECTION 12.2. Principles of 31  
SECTION 12.3. Dispute on Seniority Subject To Grievance Procedure ....................... 3]  
SECTION 12.4. Termination of 31  
SECTION 12.5. Work Status and Utilization of Full-Time and Casual Employees...... 32  
SECTION 12.6. Transfer Outside of Bargaining Unit 33  
SECTION 12.7. Transfer Into Tipped Classification 33  
SECTION 12.8. Compliance with Governmental Employment Requirements ............. 33  
### ARTICLE 13 — VACANCIES AND TRANSFERS 34  
SECTION 13.1. Vacancy and Transfer 34  
SECTION 13.2. New Position or Transfer to Different Job Classifications .................. 35  
SECTION 13.3. Transfers to Different Locations 35  
### ARTICLE 14 — LAYOFFS AND RECALLS 36  
### SECTION 14.1. Layoff According to Seniority in Job Classification 36  
SECTION 14.2. Notice of 36  
  
96/6/30 2:54PM  
Table of Contents  
### ARTICLE 1 — PREAMBLE 6  
### ARTICLE URPOSE 7  
### ARTICLE 3 — RECOGNITION 8  
ARTICLE 4 —- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ........ccccsscseees 9  
### ARTICLE 5 — WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS 10  
### SECTION 5.1. No Strike-No 10  
SECTION 5.2. Failure to Cross Picket Line Violation of 10  
SECTION 5.3. Union’s Responsibility to Prevent Work Stoppage, Strike or  
DiStuptive 10  
SECTION 5.4. Disputes with 10  
SECTION 5.5. Expedited Arbitration for Article 11  
### ARTICLE 6 — NEW EMPLOYEE SELECTION 13  
BOUIN tel crs norman 13  
### SECTION 13  
### ARTICLE 7 — NONDISCRIMINATION 14  
SECTION 7.1 14  
### SECTION 14  
### ARTICLE 8 — UNION ACTIVITY AND CHECK-OEFF 15  
### SECTION 8.1. Union Solicitation 15  
SECTION 8.2. Access of Union Representatives to Premises 15  
SECTION 8.3. Shop Steward or Alternate 15  
SECTION 8.4. 16  
### ARTICLE 9 — HOURS OF 19  
### SECTION 9.1. Work Week 19  
SECTION 9.2. Payroll 20  
Payroll Day 20  
SECTION 9.4. Work 20  
SECTION 9.5. Work 20  
SECTION 9.6. Lunch Period.............00 21  
SECTION 9.7. Rest Period 21  
SECTION 9.8. Culinary and Stewarding 22  
16/6/30 2:54 PM  
SECTION 14.3. Laid-Off Employees Retain Seniority for 12 36  
SECTION 14.4. Recalls in Accordance With Seniority in Job Classification ............... 36  
SECTION 14.5. Recall Procedure 36  
SECTION 14.6. Correct Address and Telephone a7  
SECTION 14.7. Failure to Report From 37  
### ARTICLE 15 —- INTERCHANGEABILITY OF WORK ASSIGNMENT 38  
SECTION 15.1. 38  
SECTION 15.2. Assignment to Two or More Different Job Classifications 38  
SECTION 15.3. Assignment to New Job Classification 38  
SECTION 15.4. Assignment, Reassignment or Transfer of Shop 39  
### ARTICLE 16 — LEAVE OF ABSENCE 40  
SECTION 16.1. Temporary Leave of 40  
SECTION 16.2. Leave for Union 40  
SECTION 16.3. Family and Medical 40  
SECTION 16.4, Other Non-Occupational Medical Leave Ae  
SECTION 16.5. Leave for Compensable 45  
SECTION 16.6. Medical Leaves Exceeding One Year 45  
SECTION 16.7. Employee Medical Information 46  
SECTION 16.8. Administrative 46  
### ARTICLE 17 — DISCIPLINE, STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND DISCHARGE................ 48  
SECTION 17.1. Standard of 48  
SECTION 17.2. Union 48  
SECTION 17.3. Notice of 48  
SECTION 17.4. Disciplinary/Investigatory AB  
SECTION 17.5. Discipline 49  
SECTION 17.6. Discharge 50  
SECTION 17.7. Absenteeism and Tardiness Standard: §2  
SECTION 17.8. Clock in/Clock out Standard 54  
### ARTICLE 18 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE 56  
### SECTION 18.1. Gnevance Settled According to 56  
SECTION 18.2. 56  
SECTION 18.3. Grievance Procedure. 57  
SECTION 18.4. Grievance a9  
-3-  
16/6/38) 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 19 —HOLIDAYS 60  
SECTION 19.1. Holidays 60  
SECTION 19,2, 60  
SECTION 19.3. Personal Holidays 61  
SECTION 19.4. Holiday Pay When Not Worked 61  
SECTION 19.5. Holiday Pay When Worked 61  
SECTION 19.6. Double Time Pay for hours over 8 worked on 62  
SECTION 19.7. Holiday Pay For Holiday During Vacation. 62  
SECTION 19.8. Day Holiday is Observed 62  
SECTION 19.9. No Holiday Pay for Employee Scheduled to Work Holiday and  
Who Does Not Work 62  
SECTION 19.10. Holiday Pay on Day Off When Worked 62  
SECTION 19.11. Holiday Starts at 12:00 a.m. on 62  
SECTION 19.12. Pay Rate for Holidays 63  
### ARTICLE 20 — VACATION. 64,  
### SECTION 20.1. Eligibility, Regular Full-Time 64  
SECTION 20.2. Vacation Earned In The First Calendar 64  
SECTION 20.3. Vacation Accrual Formula For Employees Hired Prior to  
December 18, 1994 65  
SECTION 20.4. Vacation Accrual Formula for Employees Hired on or After  
December 18, 1994 67  
SECTION 20.5. Vacation Not 68  
SECTION 20.6. Payment for Accrued 69  
SECTION 20.7. Vacation Scheduling 69  
SECTION 20.8. Pay Rate For Vacation 70  
SECTION 20.9. Pay For Unused Vacation Hours at Termination of Employment....... 70  
SECTION 20.10. Cancellation of Pre-Approved Vacation 70  
### ARTICLE 21 —- JURY DUTY/BEREAVEMENT LEAVE PAY 71  
### SECTION 21.1. Jury Duty Pay for Regular Full-Time Employees 71  
SECTION 21.2. Bereavement Leave 71  
### ARTICLE 22 —- INSURANCE AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 73  
SECTION 22.1. 73  
SECTION 22.2. Group 74  
16/6/30 2:54 PM  
SECTION 22.3. Sick 74  
### ARTICLE 23 - COSTUMES, UNIFORMS, AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE 77  
### SECTION 23.1. Costumes and Work Uniforms. 77  
SECTION 23.2. Safety and Sanitary Clothing and 77  
SECTION 23,3. Laundry and Cleaning of Clothing Paid by 77  
SECTION 23.4, Penalty For Lost Clothing or Misuse of Clothing and Lost  
Locker Keys 77  
SECTION 23.5. Personal Appearance Rules Set Forth in Writing 78  
SECTION 23.6. Furnished Clothing Not to be Worn Off Disney World Premises....... 78  
### ARTICLE 24 — SAFETY AND 79  
### SECTION 24.1. Company Responsibility 79  
SECTION 24.2. Employee Responsibility 79  
SECTION 24.3. Company-Union Cooperation 79  
SECTION 24.4. 79  
SECTION 24.5. Emminent Danger 81  
### ARTICLE 25 — WORK BY SUPERVISORS 82  
### ARTICLE 26 - EMERGENCY WORK AND RUNNING REPAIRS BY EMPLOYEEBG........ 83  
### SECTION 26.1. Emergency Work 83  
SECTION 26.2. 83  
### ARTICLE 27 — BULLETIN 84  
### ARTICLE 28 — SUBCONTRACTING. 85  
ARTICLE 29 — 86  
### ARTICLE 30 — SEVERABILITY 94  
### ARTICLE 31 — TERMS OF 95  
SECTION 31.1. 95  
SECTION 31.2. Complete Agreement 95  
### ADDENDUM ]  
16/6/30) 2:53PM  
### ARTICLE 1 — PREAMBLE  
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into and effective this April 20,201, by and between  
Palmas Services (San Angel Inn and Springs Food Services) called “Company” and UNITE  
HERE Local 737, hereinafter called “Union”.  
-6-  
"16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 2 —- PURPOSE  
The parties hereto have entered into this Agreement to recognize the Union, to establish  
fair wages, working conditions and benefits and to put into practice effective and binding  
methods for the settlement of all misunderstandings, disputes or grievances that may arise  
between the parties hereto, to the end that the Company is assured complete continuity of  
operation and that labor-management peace is maintained and employees are guaranteed union  
rights and protection as provided by this Agreement.  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 3 —- RECOGNITION  
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining  
representative of the regular, full-time employees within the bargaining unit (See Appendix “A”)  
of the Company at the “Mexican” attraction located in the Mexican Pavilion in the World  
Showcase, EPCOT Center (“San Angel Inn”), and/or Disney’s Coronado Springs Resort  
(‘Coronado Springs”), at Walt Disney World Co.’s “Vacation Kingdom Complex” in Bay Lake,  
Florida.  
-§-  
16/6/30 2454 PM  
### ARTICLE 4 —- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
Except as expressly and clearly limited by the terms of this Agreement, the Company  
reserves and retains exclusively all of its normal and inherent rights with respect to the  
management of the business, including, but not limited to, its right to select and direct the  
number of employees assigned to any particular classification of work, which shall include  
“authentic” personnel, i.e., foreign nationals working under a temporary permit or pursuant to a  
or a “Q” visa in all classifications of work and in all areas covered by this labor contract: to  
subcontract work, to establish and change work schedules and assignments; to lay off, terminate  
or otherwise release employees from duty for lack of work or other just cause; to make and  
enforce rules for personal grooming and the maintenance of discipline; to discontinue conduct of  
its business or operations in whole or part; to institute technological changes and otherwise to  
take such measures as management may determine to be necessary to the orderly, efficient and  
economical operation of the business.  
9.  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 5 ~ WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS  
### SECTION 5.1. No Strike-No Lockout  
During the existence of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, picketing, work  
stoppages or disruptive activity by the Union or by an employee, and there shall be no lockout by  
the Company.  
SECTION 5.2. Failure to Cross Picket Line Violation of Agreement  
Failure of any employee covered by this Agreement to cross any picket line established at  
Walt Disney World Company’s Vacation Kingdom Complex is a violation of this Agreement.  
SECTION 5.3. Union’s Responsibility to Prevent Work Stoppage, Strike or  
Disruptive Activity  
The Union shall not sanction, aid or abet, encourage or condone a work stoppage, strike  
or disruptive activity at San Angel Inn or Coronado Springs and shall undertake all possible steps  
to prevent or to terminate any strike, work stoppage or disruptive activity. No employee shall  
engage in activities that violate this Article. Any employee who participates in or encourages any  
activities that interfere with the normal operation of the Company shall be subject to disciplinary  
action, including discharge. The Union shall not be liable for acts of employees for which it has  
no responsibility. The failure of the Company to exercise this right in any instance shall not be  
deemed a waiver of this right in any other instances, nor shall the Company’s right to discipline  
all employees for any other cause be in any way affected by this Section.  
SECTION 5.4. Disputes with Concessionaires  
Disputes between the Union and any other Participant or concessionaire operating in  
Walt Disney World or in the World Showcase, EPCOT Center or at Disney’s Coronado Springs  
Resort, shall be so handled as not to interfere with the Company’s business or the business of any  
concessionaire not a party to such disputes. No picketing or concerted action against any one or  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
more of the concessionaires will be conducted at the Company’s facility or any of its entrances  
or exits. “Concessionaire,” as used herein, includes a concessionaire and also a jicensee,  
exhibitor, participant, sponsor, contractor, subcontractor or lessee. In the event any other  
organization pickets at or near Walt Disney World, or the World Showcase, EPCOT Center or at  
Disney’s Coronado Springs Resort, the Union agrees that such picket line so far as it and the  
employees it represents are concerned shall not affect the operation of the Company.  
SECTION 5.5. Expedited Arbitration for Article §  
Either party to this Agreement may institute the following procedure in lieu of or in  
addition to any other action at law or equity, when a breach of this Article is alleged.  
(a) The party invoking this procedure shall notify the Walt Disney World/Service  
Trades Council Union Arbitrator, whom the parties agree shall be the permanent Arbitrator under  
this proceeding. In the event the permanent Arbitrator is unavailable, he/she shall appoint his/her  
alternate. Notice to the Arbitrator shall be by the most expeditious means available, with a notice  
by any form of electronic communication to the Business Manager of the Union.  
(b) Upon receipt of said notice, the Arbitrator named above or his/her alternate shall  
set and hold a hearing within twenty-four (24) hours.  
(c) The Arbitrator shall notify the parties by any form of electronic communication of  
the place and time he/she has chosen for this hearing. Said hearing shall be completed in one  
session with appropriate recesses at the Arbitrator’s discretion. A failure of any party or parties  
to attend said hearing shall not delay the hearing of evidence or issuance of an Award by the  
Arbitrator.  
(d) The sole issue at the hearing shall be whether or not a violation of this Article has  
in fact occurred and the Arbitrator shall have no authority to consider any matter in justification,  
explanation or mitigation of such violation or to award damages, which issue is reserved for  
-11-  
16/6/30 2:54 PM  
court proceedings, if any. The Award will be issued in writing within three (3) hours after the  
close of the hearing, and may be issued without an Opinion. If any party desires an Opinion, one  
shall be issued within fifteen (15) days, but its issuance shall not delay compliance with, or  
enforcement of the Award. The Arbitrator may order cessation of the violation of this Article  
and other appropniate relief, and such Award shall be served on all parties by hand or registered  
mail upon issuance.  
(e) Such Award may be enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction upon filing  
of this Agreement and all other relevant documents referred to hereinabove, in the following  
manner: Electronic notice of the filing of such enforcement proceedings shal] be given to the  
other party. In the proceeding to obtain a temporary order enforcing the Arbitrator’s Award  
issued under Section 5.5(d) of this Article, all parties waive the right to a hearing and agree that  
such proceeding may be ex parte. Such Agreement does not waive any party’s right to  
participate in a hearing for a final Order of Enforcement. The Court’s Order or Orders enforcing  
the Arbitrator’s Award shall be served on all parties by hand or by delivery to their last known  
address or by registered mail.  
(f) Any rights created by statute or law goveming arbitration proceedings  
inconsistent with the above procedure, or which interfere with compliance thereof, are hereby  
waived by the parties to whom they accrue.  
(g) The fees and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be divided equally between the  
moving party or parties and the respondent party or parties.  
-12-  
‘16/6/30 2:54 PM  
### ARTICLE 6 —- NEW EMPLOYEE SELECTION  
### SECTION 6.1.  
The Company agrees to notify the Union of all needs for employees covered by this  
Agreement and will give the Union an equal opportunity to provide applicants for such jobs.  
However, the Union recognizes that pursuant to the Company’s “World Showcase Agreement”  
with Walt Disney World Co., it must staff and employ authentic national personnel for certain  
positions and for selected purposes.  
### SECTION 6.2,  
The Union will refer employees on a non-discriminatory basis.  
-13-  
36/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 7 —- NONDISCRIMINATION  
### SECTION 7.1.  
The Company and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination against any  
employee due to Union activities or affiliation.  
### SECTION 7.2.  
The Company and the Union agree there shall be no discrimination against any employee  
or prospective employee due to race, color, creed, sex, sexual orientation, age, national origin,  
religion, marital status, or disability as prohibited in federal and state legislation.  
-14-  
16/6/30 2:44PM  
### ARTICLE 8 — UNION ACTIVITY AND CHECK-OFF  
### SECTION 8.1. Union Solicitation  
Solicitation for Union purposes by the Union shall not take place on working time, in  
working areas or in public areas, but may be conducted in non-working areas and on non-  
working time in parking areas, break areas and lunchrooms.  
SECTION 8.2. Access of Union Representatives to Premises  
Representatives of the Union, designated in writing to the Company by the Union, shail  
be permitted to enter the non-public areas of the Company for the purpose of determining that  
this Agreement is being complied with by the Company and for the presentation and handling of  
grievances. Such representatives, who shall not be more than a total of three (3) in number at  
any one time, unless mutually agreed otherwise, shall comply with the access regulation and  
security regulation of Walt Disney World Company, as furnished to each union representative by  
Walt Disney World Company, and shall not interrupt the performance of employee work  
assignments.  
The Company will coordinate with a Union Representative to arrange an opportunity to  
make an introductory presentation to newly hired regular full time bargaining unit employees bi-  
annually on unpaid time.  
SECTION 8.3. Shop Steward or Alternate  
in Tite Lnvtan ade fhe vight inv designate Shep Stewards number  
served aspen Es die parties, The number of Shop Stewards may be changed by mutual  
agreement of the parties. The Union shall, in writing, notify the Company as to the identity of  
the designated Shop Steward. The Shop Steward shall have the right to receive, but not to  
promote, complaints or differences and to discuss and assist in the adjustment of the same with  
the appropriate supervisor on Company property without loss of pay during his/her regular  
-]5-  
16/6/30 254 PM  
working hours. The Company will not discriminate against the Shop Steward in the proper  
performance of his/her Union duties provided that such duties do not unreasonably interfere with  
his/her regular work or with the work of other employees and he/she shall not leave his/her work  
station without first notifying his/her appropriate Supervisor as to his/her intent, the reason  
therefore, where he/she can be reached and the estimated time he/she will be gone.  
(6) | Where the complaint or difference involves more than one (1) employee, it must  
be presented to management by the Shop Steward and one {1) employee for the employees  
involved unless presented outside of regular working hours, or unless the Supervisor involved  
gives permission for other additional employees to attend such presentation.  
(c) | The Company agrees to notify the employee at the time and the Union on a  
weekly basis of all discharges and the reason for such action. Such notification will be provided  
in writing.  
(d) A Shop Steward or Alternate will accompany representatives of management  
whenever locker inspection(s) are made.  
(e) The Steward shall promote harmonious relations between the Company and  
employees. The supervisor shall introduce all new employees to the appropriate Steward. All  
new employees shall be introduced to their Shop Steward and this introduction shall be  
documented in the employee’s personnel records.  
SECTION 8.4. Check-Off  
(a) Check off. The Company agrees to withhold from the biweekly payroll  
wages for membership dues and initiation fees for each employee who  
signs and submits an authorization card. The Company shall forward such  
dues to the certified financial secretary or other properly designated  
official of the Union on or before the third (3rd) week following the last  
-16-  
36/6/30 2:54 PM  
(b)  
week in the month in which the dues are deducted. The Company shail  
also forward an electronic check-off report, in Excel format, which lists  
employee name, social security number and the amount of the deduction.  
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against  
any and all claims, suits or other forms of liability arising out of the  
deduction of money for union dues from employees’ pay. The Union  
assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the monies so deducted  
once they have been turned over to the financial secretary or  
other properly designated official of the Union.  
The company agrees to provide the Union with a monthly member/non-  
member list. The list shall include each employee’s full name, social  
security number, phone number, rate of pay, address, date of hire, job title,  
department (location within the company, if applicable), Full-Time or  
Part-Time status, and email address, if available to the company. The  
information will be provided electronically, in Excel format, and shall  
indicate employee’s Union or non Union status. In addition, the company  
agrees to provide the Union with information regarding new hires and  
terminations on each monthly bargaining unit list. The Union agrees to  
indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims,  
suits or other forms of liability arising out of the provision to the Union of  
the above monthly member / non-member list and security of all the  
contents contained in the member / non- member list.  
=} 7-  
2:34PM  
(c) UNITE HERE TIP Campaign Committee. The Company shall provide for  
payroll deduction for all employees who voluntarily authorize such a deduction as a contribution  
to the UNITE HERE TIP Campaign Committee, or any successor thereto. All payroll deductions  
to the UNITE HERE TIP Campaign Committee shali be based on written authorization cards  
signed by the employee.  
The Company shall make the deduction for the UNITE HERE TIP Campaign Committee  
for each payroll period or other designated work period worked by the employee who has  
authorized the deduction. The Employer shall promptly transmit the amounts deducted from  
employees’ paychecks for the UNITE HERE TIP Campaign Committee, in a separate transmittal  
from dues, to Workers United for Political Power, 275 7th Ave., 7th Floor, NY, NY, 10001,  
accompanied by a CD or other computer-readable list of the names, addresses, and last four  
digits of social security numbers of all employees for whom a UNITE HERE deduction was  
made together with the date and amount of that deduction.  
-18-  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 9 —- HOURS OF WORK  
### SECTION 9.1. Work Week  
A “work week” for full time employees shall consist of thirty (30) to forty (40) hours in a  
period of seven (7) days starting at 12:00 a.m. on each Sunday and ending at 12:00 a.m. on the  
same day in the following week. This shall constitute the regularly scheduled workweek but is  
not a guaranteed workweek.  
(a) Hours Guarantee for Culinary Employees  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall guarantee a weekly  
average of thirty-two (32) hours paid to each employee in the Culinary department. The weekly  
average Shall be calculated on a quarterly basis as follows:  
arter Bi-Weekly Pay Periods Quarterly Total Hours Paid  
1 through 7 448  
2 8 through 13 384  
3 14 through 20 448  
4 21 through 26 384  
Under no circumstances wil! the Company not schedule or pay a culinary employee less than  
twenty-six (26) hours per week. Any work day missed by a culinary employee because of a leave  
of absence (Personal, Medical, FMLA, Workers’ Compensation, Short Term Disability, Long  
Term Disability, or Union) a call out (paid or unpaid) or paid holiday will count towards the  
quarterly guaranteed hours for the actual work hours missed. For example, if an employee is  
scheduled to work 7 hours on a given dey and calls out sick, the Company will be required to pay  
the employee only 441 hours for a quarter with seven (7) pay periods. Any week of work missed  
because of a layoff in accordance with this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall count as 32  
-19-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
hours towards the quarterly guarantee. Any portion of a week missed due to layoff shall be pro-  
rated. The Company and Union shal! meet quarterly to review compliance with this provision.  
SECTION 9.2. Payroll Period  
The payroll period will be bi-weekly. The company will make paychecks available to  
employees from the start of operations to the close of operation on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.  
SECTION 9.3. Payroll Day  
A payroll day is a period of twenty-four (24) hours starting at 12:00 a.m. and ending at  
12:00 a.m. the following day.  
SECTION 9.4. Work Day  
A regularly scheduled workday shall consist of a minimum of four (4) or more hours.  
This shall also apply to mandatory meetings employees are required to attend by the Company..  
However, hours spent in training or instruction required by a governmental entity or regulatory  
agency for work-related licensing or certificates of general applicability, and which may be  
provided by the Company, are not recorded or counted as “work” hours for any purpose under  
this Agreement and are not compensable. Company will schedule classes as closely to the  
beginning/end of shift as possible and employees may attend classes at either location (San  
Angel Inn or Springs Food Service). in the event that an employee is unable to attend a  
scheduled class for any reason, the employee will have thirty (30) days to obtain the applicable  
certification at his/her expense, Failure to comply within the thirty (30) days will result in the  
suspension of the employee until certification is obtained and provided to the Company.  
SECTION 9.5. Work Schedule  
Unless required to deviate for reasons of compliance with the Company’s “World  
Showcase Agreement” (i.e., authenticity of employees), dependability, skills, abilities and  
-20-  
16/6/30 2:44PM  
experience of employees, and/or for the orderly and uninterrupted operation of the Company, the  
Company shall adhere to seniority in establishing work schedules in a department or location.  
Any deviation from seniority in these areas will be discussed with the Union. The determination  
of an employee’s qualifications as used herein shall be made by the Company. Any dispute  
arising under this Section shall be subject to the grievance procedure. The Company cannot  
guarantee the number of hours to be worked weekly for any employee. (Refer to 9.1a) The  
company will determine number of employees needed and hours to be worked based on business  
needs and operation hours. An employee will be assigned any combination of two (2)  
consecutive days off within a seven (7) day period. Except in the case of an emergency or  
operational necessity, an employee will be notified in writing at least five (5) days in advance of  
any change in such assignment. (One example is shown below with the third day (Tuesday) and  
the fourth day (Wednesday) as days off.)  
Example:  
Payroll day fb 2 3 4 5 6 7F  
Workday S M T W T F S5  
Assigned daysoff W W Off Off W W WwW  
SECTION 9.6. Lunch Period  
Consistent with operational and attraction requirements for San Angel Inn and Coronado  
Springs under the “World Showcase Agreement,” and unless otherwise agreed between the  
parties, a minimum of a one-half hour unpaid lunch period as near as practicable to the mid-point  
of the regular eight (8) hour shift will be assigned to each employee.  
SECTION 9.7, Rest Period  
Each employee will be allowed a fifteen (15) minute rest period for each four (4) hours of  
work as operational needs allow. Employees who work ten (10) or more hours will receive an  
De  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
additional fifteen (15) minute rest period as operational needs allow. The Company may  
schedule the rest period in accordance with its needs. Rest periods will be provided as nearly as  
possible to the middle of each half of an eight (8) hour shift or near the middle of short four (4)  
or six (6) hour shifts, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. Due to the nature of operations  
of the dining room and the interest of the servers, rest periods for servers will not be provided or  
paid. However, the seating staff will continue to get rest periods, consistent with the provisions  
in this Section.  
SECTION 9.8. Culinary and Stewarding Scheduling  
Except when and where required for “authenticity,” or when necessary to provide  
uninterrupted operations for the guests’ experience, all available full-time Culinary and  
Stewarding employces within the location will be offered all hours of work prior to scheduling  
any non-Culinary or non-Stewarding labor.  
  
16/6/38 2:44PM  
### ARTICLE 10 - OVERTIME  
### SECTION 10.1. Management Responsibility  
It shall be the responsibility of management to determine in each instance if overtime  
work is required, and, if so, how many employees will be required to perform the work.  
SECTION 10.2. Division of Overtime Work  
All overtime work, including special event overtime, shall normally be offered and  
distributed to eligible employees who work in the job classifications in the areas that normally  
engage in the work under the following guidelines:  
(a) | Offered and distributed as equitably as reasonably practical; and,  
(b) Offered and distributed first to the most senior qualified and readily available  
employee(s) in the work area and then to other qualified and readily available employees  
regularly assigned to the work area before distribution outside the work area. Overtime work  
exceeding four (4) hours will be offered and distributed to those most senior qualified employees  
within their work area. Overtime work of less than four (4) hours will be offered and distributed  
first to the most senior qualified, readily available employee in the work area and then to any  
other qualified, readily available employee in the work area before distribution outside the work  
area.  
3%  
16/6/30 2:54 PM  
SECTION 10.3. involuntary Overtime  
The most qualified and available on shifi employee(s) will be required to work  
involuntary overtime. The Company will make every effort to give the employee as much notice  
as reasonably possible for the involuntary overtime. Additionally, no employee will be required  
to work overtime involuntary more than fourteen (14) consecutive days.  
SECTION 10.4. Time and One-Half  
(a) Five Day Work Week  
(1) Employees who work on either the first or second of their two (2) scheduled  
days off will be paid one and one-half (1'4) times their regular straight-time  
hourly rate, provided such employees have worked five (5) work days in the  
work week if work is available to them. If an employee reports to work late  
for his/her scheduled shift, or has a release of shift (ROS), the portion of the  
scheduled hours not worked must be worked prior to the overtime rate  
commencing on either the first or second of their two (2) scheduled days off  
for purposes of this provision.  
(2) Employee Who Work Over Eight (8) Consecutive Hours. The Company shall  
pay time and one-half (1 '4) for all consecutive hours worked in excess of  
eight (8) hours.  
(b) Four Day Work Week  
(1) Employees who work on either the first, second, or third of their three (3)  
scheduled days off will be paid one and one-half (14) times their regular  
straight-time hourly rate, provided such employees have worked four (4) work  
days in the work week if work is available to them. If an employee reports to  
work late for his/her scheduled shift, or has a release of shift (ROS), the  
-24-  
16/6/90 2:54 PM  
portion of the scheduled hours not worked must be worked prior to the  
overtime rate commencing on either the first, second or third of their three (3)  
scheduled days off for purposes of this provision.  
(2) Employee Who Work Over Ten (10) Consecutive Hours. The Company shall  
pay time and one-half (1 '4) for all consecutive hours worked in excess of ten  
(10) hours.  
(c) Over Forty Hours in Payroll Week. Employees shall be paid one and one-half  
(174) times their regular straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of forty (40)  
hours in any one payroll week.  
SECTION 16.5. Double Time  
The Company will pay double time for all hours commencing with the fifteenth (15)  
cumulative hour when an employee is scheduled or required to work more than fourteen (14)  
consecutive hours. When an employee voluntarily pursues a shift, which results in working more  
than fourteen (14) consecutive hours, this double time provision does not apply and the  
employee will be paid time and one-half.  
SECTION 10.6. Turn About Pay  
(a) Employees returning from a straight-time shift with less than eight (8) hours time  
off from the end of the previous shift will be paid overtime commencing with the ninth (9th)  
cumulative hour.  
(b) An employee will return at the applicable overtime rate when returning from an  
overtime shift with less than eight (8) hours time off from the end of the previous shift.  
(c) When there are two (2) hours or less between two shifts, the time between shifts  
will be treated as continuous time and will be paid at the applicable rate, except when an  
-25-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
employee pursues an additional shift outside of his own department on his own volition. The  
aforementioned exception will not be applicable for special events and private parties.  
(4) Hours worked during an regularly scheduled shift, regardless of the  
rate of pay received, shall be used for the computation of overtime for hours worked in excess of  
forty (40) hours in a payroll week as provided in Article 10, Section 10.4(c).  
(ec) If an employee is released from work with eight (8} or more hours until the  
beginning of the next shift, the provisions of this Section will not apply.  
SECTION 10.7. No Pyramiding of Premium Rates  
Where two or more premium rates apply to the same hour of work, the higher will be  
paid, and there will be no pyramiding of any premium rates.  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 11 - JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES  
### SECTION 11.1. Schedule of Wage Rates  
The rates of pay for the covered job classifications, which shall prevail, are set forth and  
contained in Appendix “A” attached hereto and considered in all respects to be a part of this  
Agreement.  
SECTION 11.2. Rates for New Jobs  
It is the Company’s right to establish any new job classification. If the Company  
hereafter substantially changes job classifications or work operation, the Company will inform  
such action to the Union. The Company recognizes the right to request effects  
bargaining over such a change. The new job classification and wage rate for such new job  
classification will be established by the Company. If the Union does not agree with the rate for  
the job classification, the Union shall submit a written grievance at the third (3rd) step of the  
Grievance Procedure within five (5) calendar days after installation of the new rate. In the event  
any higher rate is agreed upon through the Grievance Procedure or arbitration, it shall be  
effective retroactively as of the date the job classification was installed  
SECTION 11.3. Night Shift Premium  
If an employee is scheduled to commence work at or after 10:00 p.m. and before 4:00  
a.m., he/she will be paid a premium of $.60 per hour in addition to his/her straight-time rate for  
his/her scheduled workday.  
SECTION 11.4. Report Pay  
(a) Employees who report for work and who were not given prior notice not to report  
for work, and who are not put to work, will be given two (2) hours pay.  
(b) Employees who report for work and are put to work will be paid their a minimum  
of four (4) hours if they are sent home before the end of their regular shift. However, if an  
a}.  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
employee voluntarily accepts an offer for early release, the employee will only be paid for hours  
actually worked,  
(c) No report pay will be due an emplovee if work is not available for him due to  
conditions beyond the control of the Company, such as fire, flood, hurricane, or other Act of  
God, civil disturbances, picketing or threats of harm.  
(d) | The provisions of this Article apply to all scheduled shifts, including overtime,  
with the exception of shift extensions which will be paid at actual hours worked.  
SECTION 11.5. Pay for Day When Injured  
In the event an employee incurs a serious occupational illness or injury and medical  
personnel excuse the employee from further work on that day, he/she shall be paid the unworked  
balance of his/her scheduled shift . Pay for the unworked balance of his/her shift due to an  
occupational injury shall be considered as “time worked” for purposes of computing overtime  
and for pension contribution.  
SECTION 11.6. Payday  
Employees shal] be paid bi-weekly and their pay will not be delayed more than six (6)  
davs from the end of each pavroll period, providing, however, that if a payday falls on an  
employee’s regularly scheduled day off or a paid holiday, he/she shall receive his/her paycheck  
on his/her next regularly scheduled workday. An employee shall receive vacation pay in the last  
regularly scheduled pay check prior to the commencement of his/her vacation.  
In order to reduce the potential for payroll errors, the union agrees to affirmatively  
encourage employees to properly use the time clock system. When a pay shortage occurs, the  
Company will, upon an employee’s timely request, and consistent with the procedure used by the  
Company as may be modified from time to time, issue a check for the pay shortage that is due no  
  
96/6/30 2:54 PM  
later than the next pay day if the shortage is less than $50. If the shortage is $50 or more, it will  
be given the next business day.  
SECTION 11.7. Coordinators  
(a) | Coordinators may be designated by the Company in any of the classifications set  
forth in Addendum “A” and will be paid a one dollar ($1.00) per hour premium for all actual  
hours worked as a Coordinator. Effective October 1, 2013, the premium will increase to one  
dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) for all actual hours worked as a Coordinator. Effective  
October 1, 2014, the premium will increase to one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50). Coordinators  
are responsible for providing leadership and direction to employees in the group, operation or  
function and may perform the same duties as the other employees. Duties shall include, but are  
not limited to, promoting teamwork and assisting the location team in meeting quality and  
quantity standards. Coordinators have no authority to make managerial decisions such as hiring,  
terminations, transfers, promotions or disciplinary action.  
(b) All regular Coordinator openings shall be posted as needed. Only non  
probationary regular employces shall be eligible for Coordinator positions. The following  
guidelines apply when filling positions  
1. Minimum 6 months in present position.;  
2. Skills to be considered: performance, experience, technical skills,  
initiative, teamwork, dependability and communication skills,  
3. In the event that candidates are deemed to have equal qualifications  
seniority shall be the determining factor.  
c) Employees new to the Coordinator role will be placed on a one hundred eighty (180)  
day qualifying period. If the company determines during the one hundred eighty (180) days in  
-29.  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
the qualifying period that the employee’s performance is not satisfactory or if the employee  
requests a return to within the one hundred eighty (180) days, the Company will retum the  
employee to his/her prior job classification and location, and the Employee shall be immediately  
eligible to transfer again.  
d) If a full time employee is regularly assigned to a work schedule that requires him/her  
to work for more than 60% of his/her time as a coordimator for a period of more than one  
hundred and eighty consecutive days, the position will be posted and filled in accordance with  
this article 11.  
e) Employees in the coordinator role who in a rolling twelve (12) month period receive  
two (2) reprimands in accordance with Article 17 or any three reprimands will be returned to  
his/her prior job classification. If the employee’s prior job classification was a Coordinator,  
heshe will be returned to the job classification held prior to the Coordinator role.  
f} Any employee shall not be eligible for transfer to a Coordinator role if he/she has any  
reprimand in the prior six (6) months.  
SECTION 11.8. Trainers  
Trainers may be designated by the Company in any of the classifications set forth in  
Appendix “A.” Trainers will be paid a one dollar ($1.00) per hour differential for all actual  
training hours.  
-30-  
2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 12 —- SENIORITY AND WORK STATUS  
### SECTION 12.1. Definition of Seniority  
Seniority is defined as the period of full-time continuous service with the Company since  
the last day of hire. In the event of a conflict of seniority between two or more employees with  
the same hire date, the employee with the lowest last four social security number digits will be  
considered to have seniority.  
SECTION 12.2. Principles of Seniority  
The principles of seniority shall be observed on layoffs, recalls, days off, establishing  
work schedules by department or location, vacation selection, promotion and transfers, unless  
otherwise provided herein, and, further, provided the employee possesses the necessary skills,  
qualifications and ability to perform the available work without additional training as determined  
by the Company.  
SECTION 12.3. Dispute on Seniority Subject To Grievance Procedure  
Any dispute on the application of the seniority principle shall be subject to the Grievance  
Procedure,  
SECTION 12.4. Termination of Seniority  
Seniority and the employee relationship shall terminate when an employee:  
L. Resigns.  
2. Discharged for just cause.  
3. Absent for three (3) consecutive unexcused workdays.  
4, Laid off for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more.  
5. Fails to report at the end of a leave of absence.  
-31-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
SECTION 12.5. Work Status and Utilization of Full-Time and Casual Employees  
(a) Full-time employees. Full-time employees are assigned to an established job on a  
regular full-time basis and customarily work thirty (30) hours per week or more on an ongoing  
basis.  
(b) Employees. All new regular full-time employees shall be  
considered probationary employees for a period of ninety (90) calendar days. The Company  
reserves the right to terminate their employment for any reason until they have completed any  
such probationary period. However, probationary employees shall be entitled to utilize the  
Grievance Procedure to grieve any matter that could be grieved by any other employee, except  
termination within the probationary period. Any employee who has completed the ninety (90)  
calendar day probationary period and subsequently converts status (Full time to Part time or Part  
time to Full time) in the same job classification will not have to complete another probationary  
period but will receive a new bargaining unit seniority date as of the date of the conversion. An  
employee’s disciplinary record shall not be affected by the change m status.  
(c) Casual Employees.  
(1) Employees will be considered casual if they customarily work less than  
thirty (30) hours per week on an ongoing basis, or if they customarily work thirty (30) hours per  
week or more but less than seven (7) months per year.  
(2) During the life of this Agreement, and unless required for “authenticity”  
reasons, total casual emplovee utilization shall not exceed thirty-percent (30%) of the total hours  
worked by full-time and casual employees in all job classifications in any calendar year.  
(dq) The parties acknowledge that Section 12.5(c) is the sole restriction on the  
Company’s ability to schedule and work casual employees.  
-33.  
16/6/30 254 PM  
(e) Conversion from Casual to Full-Time. The Company will give consideration to  
Union petitions for conversion from casual to full-time status, as Jong there is an open position  
and a casual employee is the most qualified based on skills, performance and experience. The  
Company shall notify the Union on a quarterly basis the employees whose status have changed  
from part-time to full-time employee status.  
SECTION 12.6. Transfer Outside of Bargaining Unit  
Any employee promoted or transferred to any full-time position outside of the bargaining  
unit, but within the Vacation Kingdom Complex, shall retain and accumulate seniority for a  
period not to exceed twelve (12) months from the date of accepting such position.  
SECTION 12.7. Transfer Into Tipped Classification  
An employee transferring into a tipped classification from a non-tipped classification will  
not be allowed to exercise their seniority as it relates to the selection of work schedules until the  
major schedule change following one (1) year of service in the tipped classification.  
SECTION 12.8. Compliance with Governmental Employment Requirements  
(a) Government Regulations. Should an employee fail to obtain or to maintain and  
continue to satisfy legal requirements or governmental regulations for employment,  
e.g., public certifications, etc., the employee will be placed on a personal leave  
without pay for a sixty (60) day period. This leave period is to allow the employee  
the opportunity to obtain and provide to the Company proof of such necessary  
authorization, permit, qualification, certification and/or other documentation as may  
be required by law, governmental entities or regulatory agencies for the employee to  
be employed and/or to perform in his/her job classification. Failure to provide  
acceptable evidence of compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and/or other  
-44-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
governmental employment requirements in sixty (60) days will result in termination  
of employment.  
(b) Immigration Status, In the event that an employee is not authorized to work in the  
United States following the probationary period and his/her employment is terminated  
for this reason, the Company agrees to immediately reinstate the employee to his/her  
job classification without loss of prior seniority (seniority, vacation or other benefits  
do not continue to accrue during the period of absence) upon the employee providing  
proper work authorization within sixty (60) days from the date of termination.  
### ARTICLE 13 —- VACANCIES AND TRANSFERS  
### SECTION 13.1. Vacancy and Transfer Procedures  
The Company aprees that new positions or vacancies in the bargaining unit will be posted  
for a period of seven (7) days, unless operational needs require a shorter period. To be eligible  
for consideration, a proper application or request by an employee must be received by the  
Company within this period. In selecting the candidate for a vacancy or in granting transfers to  
different locations and/or different job classifications, seniority shall prevail when candidates  
possess the following qualifications:  
(a) Length of Service:  
l, Six (6) months employment  
2. Minimum of six (6) months in work location.  
{b) Dependability:_No reprimands in the last three (3) months.  
(c) Stall and Abiliry: Demonstrated skill and ability necessary to perform the specific  
job.  
‘16/6/30 2:44PM  
SECTION 13.2. New Position or Transfer to Different Job Classifications  
Employees selected for a vacancy or approved for transfer to a different job classification  
shall be placed on a qualifying period for up to forty five (45) calendar days. If the Company  
determines during the forty five (45) day qualifying period that the employee’s performance is  
not satisfactory or if the employee requests a return within forty five (45) calendar days, the  
Company will return the employee to his prior job classification and location, if available.  
SECTION 13.3. Transfers to Different Locations  
Employees who transfer within the same job classification but to a different location shall  
be placed on a forty-five (45) day qualifying period. If the Company determines during the  
forty-five (45) day qualifying period that the employee’s performance is not satisfactory or if the  
employee requests a return to the prior location within the forty-five (45) days, the Company  
shall return the employee to the next available opening in the same job classification in a  
different location, if available..  
-35-  
16/6/H) 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 14 —- LAYOFFS AND RECALLS  
### SECTION 14.1. Layoff According to Seniority in Job Classification  
Whenever it becomes necessary to reduce the working force in a given job classification,  
the employee(s) permanently assigned to that job classification with the least company-wide  
seniority will be laid off providing the remaining employees possess the necessary skills,  
qualifications and abilities to perform available work as determined by the Company.  
SECTION 14.2, Notice of Layoff  
Whenever possible, one week’s advance notice of layoff will be given to an employee. It  
is further mutually agreed that no penalty shall accrue to the Company in the event the Company  
fails to provide said one-week’s advance notice. The Company will furnish to the Union written  
notice of new hires and layoffs.  
SECTION 14.3. Laid-Off Employees Retain Seniority for 12 Months  
Employees on layoff for twelve (12) months or less and who are recalled will maintain  
their seniority date and continuous service date for purposes of Company benefits,  
SECTION 14.4. Recalls in Accordance With Seniority in Job Classification  
Employees who have been laid off as a result of the curtailment of operations shall be  
recalled in accordance with their seniority in their permanent job classification, provided the  
employees possess the necessary skills, qualifications and abilities to perform the available work,  
as determined by the Company.  
SECTION 14.5. Recall Procedure  
Laid-off employees shall be notified of recall by telephone five (5) workdays prior to the  
required start date. If the employee is not contacted by telephone, the Company will send a  
certified letter to the employee’s address of record notifying him/her of recall and the required  
~36-  
‘86/6/30 2:54PM  
start date, which shall not be less than ten (10) workdays from the date the letter is mailed. A  
copy of any such letter shall be mailed to the Union.  
SECTION 14.6. Correct Address and Telephone Number  
Failure of an employee to have a current address and telephone number on record in the  
Human Resources Department will relieve the Company of its responsibility of notification to  
the employee under any Article of this Agreement.  
### SECTION 14.7. Failure to Report From Layoff  
An employee who fails to report for work as scheduled on recall from layoff shall be  
considered to have voluntarily terminated his/her employment unless such employee has notified  
the Company of personal illness or a death in the immediate family prior to the date he/she was  
scheduled to report to work.  
ae  
‘16/6/30  
### ARTICLE 15 - INTERCHANGEABILITY OF WORK ASSIGNMENT  
### SECTION 15.1. Interchangeability  
(a) |The Company can temporarily assign, reassign, or transfer an employee to any  
work location or to another job classification during the workday or work week, within all of the  
areas included in this Agreement.  
(b) In the administration of this article, involuntary work shall be required of the most  
qualified, available, on-shift employee.  
(c) Whenever an employee is assigned or transferred to perform two (2)  
or more job classifications during the day, the employee will receive his permanent rate or the  
rate for the job to which he was transferred, whichever is higher, for ali time worked in the  
higher classification. The only exception is when a non-tipped employee works in a tipped  
classification, in which case he/she will be paid the appropriate tipped rate for all hours worked  
in that classification.  
SECTION 15.2. Assignment to Two or More Different Job Classifications  
The Company may assign an employee to work at two (2) or more different job  
classifications during a workday, either temporarily or permanently, for any period of time.  
Whenever an employee is assigned or transferred to perform two (2) or more job classifications  
during the day, the employee will receive his/her permanent rate or the rate for the job to which  
he/she was transferred, whichever is higher, for ali time worked in the higher classification when  
the cumulative amount of time is sixty (60) minutes or more. However, tipped employees will  
not be required to involuniarily work in a non-tipped job classification.  
SECTION 15.3. Assignment to New Job Classification  
An employee assigned to a job classification other than the job classification that is  
his/her permanent status shall have the right to request not to be assigned to such job  
~3§-  
16/6/30 2:44PM  
classification. Such employee shall not be required to work against his/her desire in the new  
classification for a period of time exceeding ten (10) workdays.  
SECTION 15.4. Assignment, Reassignment or Transfer of Shop Stewards  
In the administration of this Article, the Company will not involuntarily assign, reassign  
or transfer Shop Stewards.  
-39-  
16/6/30 72:54PM  
### ARTICLE 16 —- LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
### SECTION 16.1. Temporary Leave of Absence  
An employee’s request for a leave of absence, not to exceed thirty (30) days, may be  
granted for good cause, if the employee’s services can reasonably be spared. All leaves of  
absence must be requested and approved in writing.  
SECTION 16.2. Leave for Union Business  
An employee accepting a full-time position with the Union shall be entitled to an unpaid  
leave of absence for a period not to exceed one (1) year from the date of accepting such position,  
during which time he/she shall retain and accumulate seniority. In the event that a union  
business leave exceeds sixty (60) days, continuation of the employee’s health care coverage will  
be subject to COBRA. The Union may petition the Company on an individual basis for a yearly  
extension of this leave of absence.  
SECTION 16.3. Family and Medical Leave  
The Company offers family and medical leave pursuant to the provisions of the Family  
and Medical Leave Act of 1993. The Company and the Union acknowledge and agree that the  
terms and provisions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement must conform to and will be  
administered consistent with the requirements of the FMLA. An employee is eligible for unpaid  
family and medical Jeave as set forth below:  
(a) Eligible Employees. Employees who have been employed for at least 12 months  
and have worked at least 1,250 hours during the preceding 12-month period are eligible for  
unpaid family or medical leave. If a leave is requested for an employee’s own serious health  
condition, the employee must first use all of his or her accrued vacation leave, sick leave,  
personal leave, or short term disability leave. If leave is requested for any other reason listed  
-40-  
‘86/6/30 2:44PM  
below, an employee must first use all of his or her accrued paid vacation or personal leave. The  
remainder of the leave period will then consist of unpaid leave.  
(b) Leave Period. An eligible employee is entitled to take up to a maximum of 12  
weeks of family or medical leave in any 12-month period. The 12-month period shail be a  
rolling 12-month period measured backward from the date the leave is used. Entitlement to  
leave for the birth or placement of a child for adoption or foster care will expire 12 months from  
the date of birth or placement.  
(c) Reasons for Leave. An employee who meets with the applicable eli pibility  
requirements will be granted a total of up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for the following reasons:  
The birth of the employee’s child and in order to care for that child:  
2. The placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care;  
3. The care for a spouse, child, or parent who has a serious health condition:  
or  
4, A serious health condition that renders the employee incapable of  
performing the functions of his or her job.  
If a husband and wife both work for the Company, the aggregate leave taken by both  
employees is limited to a total of 12 weeks if the leave is taken for the birth or placement of a  
child or to care for a parent with a serious health condition. However, if the leave is taken by  
either spouse to care for the other who is seriously ill and unable to work, to care for a child with  
a serious health condition, or for his or her own serious illness, then each employee is eligible for  
12 weeks of leave.  
(d) Application for Leave. An employee requesting family or medical leave must  
complete the “Application for Family or Medical Leave” form (the employee can obtain the form  
-4|-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
from the administrative assistant in the employee’s local administration office) and immediately  
return it to the administrative assistant from whom the employee obtained the form. The  
completed application must state the reason for the leave, the duration of the leave, and the  
starting and ending dates of the leave.  
(e) Notice of Leave, Ail employees of the Company who request FMLA leave when  
the need is “foreseeable” are required to give 30 days notice prior to the commencement of ©  
leave. When the need for leave is not foreseeable, the employees must provide notice as soon as  
practicable but normally within two business days. Notice may be given by a spouse, family  
member or other representative if the employee is unable to do so personally.  
(1) Intermittent or Reduced Leave. Employees may not take intermittent or reduced  
leave in case of birth or placement of 2 child, unless the Company agrees. In the case of serious  
health conditions, leave may be taken intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule when  
medically necessary. Employees are expected to make a reasonable effort to schedule  
intermittent leave so as not to disrupt the operations of the Company. The Company may require  
an eligible employee on intermittent or reduced leave to transfer temporarily to an available  
alternative position for which the eligible employee is qualified if the position has equivalent pay  
and benefits and better accommodates the recurring periods of leave than the eligible employee’s  
regular position.  
(g) Medical Certification of Leave. The application for leaye based on the “serious  
health condition” of the employee or the employee’s spouse, child, or parent must be  
accompanied by a “Health Care Certification” completed by the health care provider (the  
employee can obtain the form from the administrative assistant in the employee’s local  
administration office), The certification must state the date on which the serious health condition  
‘16/6/30 2:54 PM  
commenced, probable duration of the condition, and the appropriate medical facts regarding the  
condition. If an employee is requesting leave to care for a spouse, child, or parent with a serious  
health condition, the medical certification must state an estimate of the amount of time the  
employee will be needed. If the employee has a serious health condition, the medical  
certification must state that the employee cannot perform the functions of his or her job. The  
Company will require medical certification to be submitted prior to or when an leave  
begins or within fifteen (15) calendar days after the leave starting date. In addition, the  
Company may require subsequent re-certifications on a reasonable basis.  
(b) Notification of Leave Assignments. After receiving notice from the employee  
regarding the need to take family or medical leave, the Company will provide the employee with  
an “Employer Response to FMLA Request.”  
(i) Benefits Coverage During Leave. During a family or medical leave, the employee  
will be retained on the Company’s health plan under the same conditions that applied before the  
leave began. To continue health coverage, the employee must continue to make any contribution  
that he or she made for group insurance during the leave. Failure of the employee to pay his or  
her share of the health insurance premium may result in the loss of coverage.  
An employee who is granted FMLA leave shall retain and accumulate seniority during  
such leave. An eligible employee will not accrue any right, benefit or position of employment  
other than that which they would have been entitled to had a leave not been taken and such leave  
will not result in the loss of any benefit accrued prior to the date on which the leave began.  
If an employee fails to return to work after the expiration of the leave, the employee may  
be required to reimburse the Company for payment of health insurance premiums during the  
family or medical leave. Reimbursement will not be required if the employee does not return to  
43-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
work because of a serious health condition or other circumstances beyond the employee’s  
control.  
(j) Restoration to Employment. An employee who completes a family or medical  
leave will be returned to the same position held when the leave began, if available, or to a  
position equivalent in pay, benefits, and other terms and conditions of the employment. The  
Company cannot guarantee that an employee will be returned to his or her same former job.  
(k) Return from Leave. The Company will require an employee taking a family or  
medical leave to report every thirty (30) days on his or her status and intent to return to work  
upon completion of the leave. Employees returning from a medical leave are required to provide  
certification health care provider indicating that the employee is able to resume work with  
no limitations. Employees who do not return to work upon the expiration of a family or medical  
leave will be treated as having voluntarily terminated their employment. An employee who  
requests an extension of family or medical leave must submit his or her request for an extension  
in writing that includes the reason for the requested extension.  
SECTION 16.4. Other Non-Occupational Medical Leave  
(a) | Employees not covered by the FMLA may be granted non-occupational medical  
leave, at the discretion of the Employer.  
(b) An employee requesting a non-occupational medical leave of absence must  
provide a written statement from their personal physician documenting the reason for the leave  
and the beginning date and estimated duration of the medical leave. Failure to comply with this  
provision may jeopardize the employee’s eligibility for a medical leave of absence.  
(c) An employee who is granted a medical leave of absence shall retain and  
accumulate seniority during such leave. If eligible, an employee may request payment of earned  
44.  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
sick leave and vacation benefits. Employees who are on leave of absence for more than thirty  
(30) days will not receive credit toward scheduled step increases.  
(d) | Anemployee who returns from medical leave of absence within sixty (60) days or  
less will be placed in his/her prior job, location, and schedule. If the employce has been on leave  
for more than sixty (60) days, the Company will make every reasonable effort to place said  
employee in the employee’s prior job and location.  
An employee who fails to return from medical leave of absence, or to seek a  
release to return to work from the medical leave of absence, will be considered to have  
voluntarily terminated.  
SECTION 16.5. Leave for Compensable Injury  
Any employee on medical leave as a result of an on-the-job compensable injury shall  
retain and accumulate seniority during such leave. Upon being released for return to work, if the  
employee has been off sixty (60) days or less or for FMLA qualifying leave, such other period as  
required by that law, he/she will be placed in his/her prior job, location and schedule. If the  
employee has been off for more than sixty (60) days, the Company will make every effort to  
place said employee in the employee’s prior job and location.  
SECTION 16.6. Medical Leaves Exceeding One Year  
Those employees who accumulate time on occupational or non-occupational medical  
leave of absence totaling one (1) year will have their employment with the Company terminated.  
The one-year period is calculated on a cumulative, as opposed to a consecutive basis, as outlined  
below:  
(a) if an employee returns from medical leave and works less than twenty-six (26)  
consecutive working weeks, and is subsequently returned to medical leave, the employee will  
continue to accrue time toward the one year cut-off described above.  
45-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
(b) If an employee returns from medical leave and works for a minimum of twenty-  
six (26) consecutive working weeks, the emplovee will begin a new one-year period.  
(c) Ifan employee retums to work and subsequently retums to medical leave due to  
an unrelated medical condition, the employee will begin a new one-year period.  
SECTION 16.7. Employee Medical Information (Confidential)  
(a) | who has a medical condition which requires medication of any type,  
or which may affect his/her ability to perform required duties, must provide a written statement  
from his/her personal physician documenting the reason for the medication/condition, estimated  
duration and any work restrictions. Any medical information or disclosure will be filed and  
maintained in the employee’s confidential medical records. Failure to provide such information  
on a timely basis may result in the employee’s termination.  
(b) Pregnant employees must provide a written statement from their personal  
physician documenting any medication which is reasonably expected to affect her ability to  
work, work restrictions, and a designated date beyond which it is not satisfactory for her to  
continue working. A pregnant employee who is regularly in view of the public in a themed show  
area may continue employment as long as medically approved and her physical appearance in the  
designated costume for her particular work location does not detract from the image of the  
costume’s original theme design. The Company will find an appropriate non-theme show job  
(out of costume) for an employee who is displaced due to costuming restrictions, Pregnant  
employees not in the view of the public in a non-theme show area may continue their  
employment as long as medically approved.  
SECTION 16.8 Administrative Leave  
At the request of the Union, the Company agrees to consider, on a case by case basis and  
in its sole discretion, allowing employees to continue working or placing employees on unpaid  
-46-  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
administrative leave for up to one (1) year pending the outcome of civil or criminal charges.  
However, the Company reserves the right to take disciplinary action, up to and including  
termination, based on the nature of the allegations and/or information available to the Company  
regarding the circumstances. Disciplinary action taken by the Company shall be subject to the  
grievance procedure with the exception of probationary period terminations.  
-47-  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 17 — DISCIPLINE, STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND  
### DISCHARGE  
SECTION 17.1. Standard of Conduct  
High standards of conduct are necessary to preserve the Company’s public image and to  
ensure a safe, harmonious and productive working atmosphere. The Company shall admintster  
the sections of this Article with due consideration for the employee. Such considerations shall  
include length of service, work record, and seriousness of violation. The Company will make  
every effort to ensure the consistent and timely application of the disciplinary section of this  
Agreement.  
SECTION 17.2. Union Representative  
The employee has the right to the presence and advice of a Shop Steward at the time of  
disciplinary action. In any formal questioning by the Company that could lead to disciplinary  
action, the employee will be informed of the purpose of the questioning and that s/he has a right  
to have a Shop Steward present.  
SECTION 17.3. Notice of Investigation  
In those circumstances where the Company determines that an investigation will be  
conducted regarding an employee’s actions, and where such investigation may lead to  
disciplinary action but does not require that the emplovee be suspended from work, the Union  
agrees that the decision not to suspend the employee during the investigation shall not be utilized  
in any manner, or in any subsequent proceeding, as evidence contesting the disciplinary action.  
SECTION 17.4. Disciplinary/Investigatory Suspensions  
An employee may be suspended from work so that the Company may complete a  
thorough investigation and review of an alleged incident/offense. At the conclusion of the  
investigation, the employee will receive one of the following:  
48.  
‘$6/6/30 2:54PM  
(a) No discipline and a return to work with full back pay and applicable pension  
contributions; or  
(b) =A reprimand in accordance with Section 17.5(a) below and a retum to work with  
no back pay and applicable pension contributions; or  
(c) Disciplinary suspension in accordance with Section 17.5(b) below; or  
(d) Termination in accordance with Section 17.6 below.  
An employee may be suspended without pay for a period of up to two (2) weeks. The  
patties recognize, however, that the use of a suspension is not a mandatory component of the  
disciplinary progression.  
In circumstances where an investigatory suspension extends beyond two (2) weeks, an  
employee shall be paid on a weekly basis until such time that the suspension is concluded and an  
employment decision is administered by the Company.  
SECTION 17.5. Discipline  
Discipline must be for just cause. In administering discipline, the Company will make  
its determination based on the factors in Section 17.1.  
(a) | Reprimands, Reprimands will be issued, in writing, on a specific subject or  
subjects and will be signed by the Supervisor who will present it and discuss it with the  
employee. Reprimands will be presented and discussed within fifteen (1 >) calendar days after the  
occurrence, or within fifteen (15) days after the immediate supervisor has had a reasonable  
opportunity to become aware of and complete an investigation of the occurrence, whichever is  
later, unless prevented by the absence of the employee or extenuating circumstances beyond the  
control of the Company. These time limits shall not apply to discipline as a result of an HR  
Compliance investigation. An employee will sign the reprimand, not in admission of the  
49.  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
offense, but in acknowledgment that a copy of the reprimand has been received by the employee.  
The Company shall make copies of written reprimands available to the Union.  
(b) Disciplinary System.  
1. Reprimands may count as one (1) or two (2) disciplinary points. Such  
determination shall be based upon a fact-specific evaluation of the  
disciplinary incident.  
2. Any combination of four (4) reprimands within the preceding twelve (12)  
months shall result in the employee’s termination.  
3. The twelve (12) months period shall be a rolling 12 months period  
measured backward from the date of the first reprimand.  
4, It is specifically understood by the parties that the disciplinary point  
system is not restricted to same or similar offenses but may include  
different offenses on a cumulative basis.  
SECTION 17.6. Discharge  
An employee may be discharged for just cause and will be advised of the reason(s) for  
discharge, which may include, but is not limited to, the following:  
(a) Insulting, arguing, being discourteous, or using profane language in the presence  
of a guest.  
(>) Fighting, regardless of who provokes it, may result in automatic termination for  
both parties involved.  
(c)  Falsification of records, such as medical forms, time cards, employment  
applications.  
-§0-  
‘$6/6/30 2:54 PM  
(d} Using, being in possession of, or being under the influence of narcotics,  
intoxicants, drugs or hallucinatory agents during working hours or reporting for work under such  
conditions.  
(e) Conviction, plea of guilty, plea of no contest, or acceptance of pre-trial diversion,  
or other similar resolution to a felony or serious misdemeanor, such as but not limited to child  
abuse, lewd and lascivious behavior, or sale/distribution of controlled substances.  
(f) Violation of operating rules and procedures that may or may not result in physical  
and/or financial damage to Company property or in bodily injury to fellow employees or guests.  
(zg) | Gambling, sleeping while on duty, willful insubordination and theft.  
(h) Dishonesty or misconduct that is detrimental to the  
(i) Continued violation of the Company appearance guidelines.  
{j) Failure to return from a leave or vacation.  
(k) Excessive tardiness or absentecism.  
6) Discrimination/harassment.  
(m) Possession of dangerous or unauthorized materials such as explosives, firearms,  
or other similar items on Company property.  
While it has never been the position of the Company to legislate behavior during off-duty hours, the Company  
does reserve the right to administer appropriate disciplinary action when flagrant actions take place on Company  
property by outside their scheduled work hours, It is understood by both parties that in the event of  
extremely serious infractions of this nature requiring discharge, subsection(s) (f) and/or (h) of the above referenced  
Article will be cited.  
-5]-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
SECTION 17.7. Absenteeism and Tardiness Standard:  
In 201+ negotiations, the Union and the Company discussed the unique nature of the Company’s  
business and the distinct operational needs that differ from the surrounding Walt Disney World  
operations, Based on those discussions, the parties agreed to the following:  
(a) Absences: Employees must call to notify the Company of their absence on the dedicated  
call-in line at least one (1) hour prior to the shift start time. If an employee calls absent  
less than one (1) hour before the scheduled start time, he/she will receive zie (*)  
attendance point in addition to the list below:  
1.  
2.  
Beginning with 3 in any 30 days = reprimand  
Beginning with 6 in any 90 days = reprimand  
Beginning with 9 in any 180 days = reprimand  
Beginning with 12 in any 365 days = reprimand  
No Call/No Show = reprimand. A No Call/No Show is defined as an absence  
without calling except in case of a bona fide emergency. The Company will  
accept cails from employees’ family members if the employee is unable to call.  
(2) af Na Show tt a sefling (72) asonth iti  
rough far  
When an employee calls absent one (1) hour or more before the scheduled start time, the  
Company will make every possible effort to call in a bargaining unit replacement by  
seniority (first giving preference to those employees who would not incur overtime).  
(b)  Tardiness:  
-52-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
A tardiness of more than one (1) hour will count as one absence. A tardiness of one (1)  
hour or less will count as one-half (1/2) an absence. A tardiness of five (5) minutes or  
less shall fall within the grace period and shall not count as tardiness.  
(c) Procedures:  
The following items shal] not be counted as absences:  
1, Work incurred injuries;  
2. Medical Leaves;  
3. Release of shift for medical reasons;  
4. Scheduled personal leaves where the Company agrees in advance to the leave;  
5. Subsequent consecutive call-ins for the same illness or injury will not count as an  
additional occurrence;  
6. The first 42) call-in or call sick notations for employees who meet the  
following criteria:  
(a) The employee has one (1) or more years of seniority; 2maleveer  
after , 2078 nator ties (2) av ators pears oF  
(0b) Pag fer the dep will Ge ar he empleves’s  
(c) The employee must not have received attendance discipline in the prior  
faar (28s  
Pan employee rails sek and has'earned sick dese availabie. no svivtion  
wil dy mage on the record card The ovstpanp reserves the rast ia ayh  
for dociee's mete after 3 conspentive sich cath  
-§3-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
(d)  
(e)  
  
The disciplinary progression shall be four (4) reprimands prior to termination within a  
twenty-four (24) month period, Any twelve (12) month period free from discipline will  
result in beginning again at the first step of progressive discipline.  
All references to time period in this Article refer to continuous work periods specifically,  
excluding any leaves of absence.  
With reasonable notice, regular full-time employees may request the use of six (6) days  
sick leave per calendar year as personal leave days. Requests will be granted consistent  
with operational requirements.  
SECTION 17.8. Clock in/Clock out Standard  
(a) Failure to Either Clock in or Clock Out:  
1. Beginning with 3 points in any 30 days = reprimand  
2. Beginning with 6 points in any 90 days = reprimand  
3. Beginning with 9 points in any 180 days = reprimand  
4. Beginning with 12 points in any 365 days = reprimand  
(b) Tracking:  
1. Failure to clock in for the start of shift = 1/2 point  
2. Failure to clock out for the end of shift = 1/2 point  
3. Failure to clock in and out for same shift = 1 point  
4, Failure to clock out for the start of lunch period = 1/2 point  
5. Failure to clock in for the end of lunch period = 1/2 point  
(c) Procedures:  
Employees must utilize the time recording clock to which they are assigned unless  
otherwise directed by management. It is the responsibility of the employee to inform  
management of a lost or stolen ID card before the end of his or her shift.  
-54-  
‘16/6/3982 2:44PM  
Failure to clock in as a result of a lost, stolen, or damaged ID card is  
considered “4 point. (During the time it takes the employee to replace a  
lost, stolen, or damaged ID card [maximum seven (7) days], the clock  
infractions will not be counted toward this point matrix system for  
disciplinary purposes.)  
The disciplinary progression shall be three (3) reprimands prior to  
termination. Any twelve (12) month period free from discipline will result  
in beginning again at the first step of progressive discipline.  
All references to time periods in this standard refer to continuous work  
periods specifically, excluding any leaves of absence.  
The Company reserves the right to discipline outside this matrix when an  
employee habitually loses possession of or damages his/her ID card.  
Falsification of hours worked and/or the use of an ID card by anyone other  
than the person issued the ID card may result in disciplinary action, not  
excluding termination.  
44.  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 18 — GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE  
### SECTION 18.1. Grievance Settled According to Procedure  
The parties to this Agreement agree that any grievance arising out of the interpretation or  
application of the terms of this Agreement, with the exception of terminations and policy  
grievances which will be expedited to Step 3, shall be settled promptly in accordance with the  
following procedures:  
SECTION 18.2. Definitions  
(a) Grievance: A grievance, within the meaning of this procedure, is defined as a  
dispute or difference of opinion between the parties conceming the meaning, interpretation,  
application or alleged violation by the Company of this Agreement.  
(b) Time Limits: The parties recognize that it is important that grievances be  
processed and resolved as rapidly as possible: therefore, the number of days indicated at each  
step of the grievance procedure should be considered as 2 maximum, and every effort should be  
made to expedite the process. The time limits specified may be extended by mutual agreement  
as evidenced by a waiver, in writing, signed by an authorized representative of the Company and  
the Union; otherwise, the grievance shall be regarded as withdrawn.  
(c) Recording Devices: The parties agree that no recording devices of any kind shall  
be permitted to be utilized during Steps 1, 2, 3, or 4 of the grievance procedure.  
(d) Back-pay Awards: The parties agree that any Arbitrator’s award of back pay shall  
be lessened by unemployment compensation or any other compensation received by the grievant  
during the period of termination prior to reinstatement.  
(e) Information Requests: The Company will make every reasonable effort to  
provide any requested, relevant information regarding grievances to the Union within seventy-  
-56-  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
two (72) hours. In circumstances where the Company is unable to provide information within  
seventy-two (72) hours, the Union will be provided with an estimate of the time of provision.  
SECTION 18.3. Grievance Procedure.  
Step I  
Any employee, believing that he/she has suffered a grievance, shall discuss the matter  
with his/her immediate supervisor. The employee may choose whether to discuss the matter  
with his/her supervisor with or without the assistance of his/her Union Representative.  
In order to be deemed timely, a grievance must be discussed by the employee with his/her  
immediate supervisor within fourteen (14) calendar days after its occurrence, or within fourteen  
(14) calendar days after the employee has had a reasonable opportunity to become aware of the  
occurrence, whichever is later. The employee must indicate that his/her discussion with the  
supervisor is a grievance. Failure to observe the aforementioned time limitation shall be deemed  
a waiver and the grievance will be regarded as abandoned.  
The immediate supervisor shall give an oral reply within seven (7) calendar days after  
submission of the grievance. If the immediate supervisor fails to give an oral reply within the  
time limits provided, the grievance may be appealed to the next Step of the grievance procedure.  
Step 2  
If the grievance shall not have been adjusted under Step 1, then within seven (7) calendar  
days after the reply given under Step 1, or after the date under which a reply should have been  
given under Step 1, the grievance shalf be reduced to writing upon the accepted Grievance Form.  
The written grievance shall set forth the relevant information conceming the dispute, including a  
short description of the alleged grievance, the date on which the grievance occurred, and an  
identification of the Section of the Agreement alleged to have been violated. The grievance shall  
be submitted to the employee’s Manager, who shall immediately forward copies to the  
-57-  
16/6/30 2:54 PM  
designated Company Representative. The Company Representative and the Union  
Representative shall meet within seven (7) calendar days after invocation of Step 2 in an attempt  
to settle the grievance. It shall be incumbent upon the Business Representative to request such  
meeting. The Company Representative shall provide the employee and the Union  
Representative with a written reply within seven (7) calendar days after the parties have met. If  
the designated Company Representative fails to give a written reply within the time limits  
provided, the grievance may be appealed to the next Step of the grievance procedure.  
Step 3  
If the grievance shall not have been adjusted under Step 2, then within seven (7) calendar  
days from the date of the supervisor’s written decision or a date when the decision should have  
been submitted by the supervisor, the grievance shall be presented in writing to the General  
Manager. The General Manager and the employee’s Union Business Representative shall meet  
within seven (7) calendar days in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The General Manager shall  
provide the Employee and the Union Business Representative with a written reply within seven  
(7) calendar days after the parties have met. If the General Manager fails to give a written reply  
within the time limit provided, the grievance may be appealed to arbitration.  
In conducting the second and third Step meetings, the presence of the Shop Steward  
and/or the grievant may be requested by the Union Such request will remain the  
sole option of the Union.  
Step 4  
If the grievance shall] have been submitted but not adjusted under Step 3, either party  
may, within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the General Manager’s written reply, or a  
date when the written reply should have been submitted by the General Manager, request in  
58.  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
writing that the grievance be submitted to an Arbitrator mutually agreed upon by the Company  
and the Union. If within seven (7) calendar days after such request the Company and the Union  
do not agree upon the selection of an Arbitrator, such Arbitrator shall be selected from a list of  
five Arbitrators furnished by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. The Rules of the  
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall govern the selection of an Arbitrator and the  
conduct of the arbitration hearing. The Arbitrator shal] not have the authority to alter, amend,  
change, modify, add to or subtract from or reform any provision, article or language of this  
Agreement. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties with no  
further appeal, except for reasons of aside an Arbitrator’s Award, as set forth in  
applicable Federal and Florida Statutes. Any joint expense incidental to or arising out of the  
arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Only one grievance shall be  
before a specific Arbitrator at one time. Either party, at their discretion, may refuse one list,  
which has been presented by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for a pending  
arbitration hearing.  
SECTION 18.4. Grievance Settlements  
A grievance settlement, having been resolved at any step of the grievance procedure, will  
be implemented no more than seven (7) calendar days after the date of the settlement agreement  
-§9-.  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 19 - HOLIDAYS  
### SECTION 19.1. Holidays Observed  
There will be seven (7) core holidays and three (3) personal holidays.  
(a) Thecore holidays are:  
l. New Years Day  
2. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day  
3. Memorial Day  
4, Independence Day  
5. Labor Day  
6. Thanksgiving Day  
7, Christmas Day  
(b) The three (3) personal holidays may be used on dates mutually apreed to by  
management and the employee.  
SECTION 19.2. Eligibility  
(a) All regular full-time employees are eligible for holiday pay after working thirty  
(30) calendar days of continuous service, providing they work their scheduled shifts prior to and  
immediately following such holiday.  
(b) If the failure to work his/her regularly scheduled shift immediately  
before or following the holiday was due to personal illness, injury, or death in the immediate  
family or an approved FMLA absence, and the employee satisfied the Company in this respect,  
he/she shall be eligible to receive holiday pay.  
(c} | Employees on an authorized leave of absence of six (6) days or longer are not  
eligible for holiday pay.  
16/6/30 2:44PM  
SECTION 19.3. Personal Holidays  
Effective January | of each year of this Agreement, all employees with one or more years  
of continuous service will be credited with three (3) personal holidays. Employees with less than  
one (1) year of service, and employees who are hired or converted from a@ casual status to a full-  
time status after January 1, will be credited with one (1) personal holiday on each of the  
following posting dates: March 1, June 1, and September 1. An employee must be statused as a  
full-time employee on the posting date to receive the personal holiday.  
Personal holidays shall require two (2) weeks advance notice for scheduling and shall be  
granted consistent with operational requirements. In the event all requests for a particular day  
cannot be approved due to operational requirements, seniority shall prevail in granting the  
holiday.  
Personal holidays will be scheduled and taken within the following provisions:  
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
(e)  
Must be taken within the calendar year;  
May not be carried over from year-to-year, or paid off at time of termination;  
Do not effect the use of sick leave days or personal time off,  
Will not be paid in addition to other hours worked; and,  
May only be taken in one (1) full shift increment.  
SECTION 19.4. Holiday Pay When Not Worked  
Each eligible employee will receive eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s regular  
straight-time rate for each observed holiday not worked, provided the employee has worked their  
entire scheduled shifts prior to and immediately following the holiday.  
SECTION 19.5. Holiday Pay When Worked  
Each eligible employee will receive eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s regular straight  
time rate for each observed holiday worked provided the employee has worked their entire  
-61-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
scheduled shifts prior to and immediately following the holiday. The holiday pay shall be in  
addition to the employee’s straight time pay for all hours worked in his/her scheduled shift.  
SECTION 19.6. Double Time Pay for hours over 8 worked on Holiday  
Double time the employee’s regular rate shall be paid for hours worked in excess of 8  
hours on a paid holiday.  
SECTION 19.7. Holiday Pay For Holiday During Vacation  
Should a holiday fall during the period of an employee’s vacation, the employee shall be  
pranted an extra day’s pay.  
SECTION 19.8. Day Holiday is Observed  
Recognized holidays shall be observed on the date designated for observance by the  
Federal Government, except Christmas, which shall be observed on December 25th.  
SECTION 19.9. No Holiday Pay for Employee Scheduled to Work Holiday and  
Who Does Not Work  
An employee who is regularly scheduled to work on a recognized holiday and who does  
not work shall not receive holiday pay, except in the case of an employee who is given an  
authorized day off (ADO) by management.  
SECTION 19.10. Holiday Pay on Day Off When Worked  
If a holiday worked falls on one of the employee’s regular days off, he/she shall receive  
eight (8) hours straipht-time holiday pay, plus the rate he/she would receive for working on  
his/her day off.  
SECTION 19.11. Holiday Starts at 12:00 a.m. on Holiday  
For the purpose of computing pay for work on a holiday, the twenty-four (24) hour  
holiday period shall commence at 12:00 a.m. on the holiday and terminate at 11:59 p.m. the same  
day.  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
SECTION 19.12. Pay Rate for Holidays  
Those employees in tipped classifications will have holiday benefits paid at the  
appropriate non-tipped rate for Food/Beverage Steward on Addendum “A.”  
.63-  
86/6/30 2:54 PM  
### ARTICLE 20 — VACATION  
### SECTION 20.1. Eligibility, Regular Full-Time Employees  
All regular fuli-time employees shall receive a vacation based on the number of hours  
worked (straight-time and overtime hours exclusive of the overtime premium) up to a maximum  
of 1800 hours, from date of hire to the end of the calendar year in which hired, and for each  
succeeding calendar year thereafter, based upon the conditions set forth in this Article. Paid  
vacation will be credited as hours worked for accrual towards the next year vacation allowance.  
SECTION 20.2. Vacation Earned In The First Calendar Year  
Vacation earned in the first (1st) calendar year of service may not be used until nine (9)  
months of continuous service have elapsed from date of hire and in no event prior to the  
beginning of the calendar year following the year in which employed. Vacations thereafter shall  
be on a calendar year basis.  
64  
2:54PM  
SECTION 20.3. Vacation Accrual Formula For Employees Hired Prior to  
December 18, 1994  
(a) Two (2) Week Vacation Accrual Formula.  
Calendar Year Paid Vacation  
Hours Worked Hours Harned  
1800 80  
1620 72  
1440 64  
1260 56  
1080 48  
900 40  
720 32  
540 24  
360 16  
180 8  
(b) Employees are eligible to take three (3) weeks of vacation on January 1st of the  
calendar year in which the sixth (6th) anniversary of continued service will occur.  
### EXAMPLE:  
| Year of Hire 2007 2009  
Eligible to take 3 weeks on January 1 9012 2013 7015  
of this year  
      
   
    
     
        
    
.65-  
16/6/H) 2:54PM  
(c) Three (3) Week Vacation Accrual Formula.  
Calendar Year Paid Vacation  
Hours Worked Hours Earned  
1800 120  
1680 112  
1560 104  
1440 96  
1320 88  
1200 80  
L080 72  
960 64  
840 56  
720 48  
600 40  
480 32  
360 24  
240 16  
120 8  
(d) Employees are eligible to take four (4) weeks of vacation on January Ist of the  
calendar year in which the eighteenth (18th) anniversary of continuous service occurs.  
### EXAMPLE:  
    
    
   
    
Year of Hire 1995 1996 1997  
Eligible to take 4 weeks on January |  
afthe year 2012 2013 2014 2015  
    
   
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
(e) Four (4)-week vacation formula.  
Calendar Year Paid Vacation  
Hours Worked Hours Earned  
1800 160  
1710 152  
1620 144  
1530 136  
i440 128  
1350 120  
1260 112  
1170 104  
1080 96  
990 88  
900 80  
810 72  
720 64  
630 56  
540 48  
450 40  
360 32  
270 24  
180 16  
90 8  
SECTION 20.4, Vacation Accrual Formula for Employees Hired on or After  
December 18, 1994  
(a) One (1)-week vacation accrual formula.  
Calendar Year Paid Vacation  
Hours Worked Hours Earned  
1800 40  
1440 32  
1080 24  
720 16  
360 8  
  
16/6/30 2:54 PM  
(b) Employees are eligible to take two (2) weeks of vacation on January Ist of the  
calendar year in which the third (3rd) anniversary of continuous service will occur:  
### EXAMPLE:  
Eligible to take 2 weeks on January 1  
of the year  
   
(c) Two (2)-week vacation formula: Refer to the two (2) weeks vacation accrual  
formula in Section 20.3(a).  
(d) Employees are eligible to take three (3) weeks of vacation on January Ist of the  
calendar year in which the sixth (6th) anniversary of continuous service occurs. Refer to  
example in Section 20.3(b), and to the three (3) week vacation accrual formule in Section  
20.3(c).  
(e) Employees are eligible to take four (4) weeks of vacation on January Ist of the  
calendar year in which the eighteenth (18th) anniversary of continuous service occurs. Refer to  
the example in Section 20.3(d), and to the four (4) week vacation accrual formula in Section  
20.3(e).  
SECTION 20.5. Vacation Not Cumulative  
Vacations are not cumulative and must be taken within the calendar vear the employee  
becomes eligible to take his/her vacation. Vacations not used within the calendar year in which  
the employee becomes eligible to take his/her vacation shall be deemed to be lost with the  
exception of a maximum of sixteen (16) hours of vacation that may be carried over to the  
following year.  
«6k-  
‘16/6/30 2:54 PM  
SECTION 20.6. Payment for Accrued Vacation  
Upon the request of an eligible employee, the company shall provide payment of up to  
one half of an employee’s accrued vacation to a maximum of eighty (80) hours on an annual  
basis (by calendar year). Amounts paid are subject to all required withholdings. Payment should  
normally be issued within two weeks of the request being received by payroll.  
SECTION 20.7. Vacation Scheduling  
Due to the nature of the Company’s operations and requirements for specified skills,  
vacations will be scheduled by the Company. Hours worked and vacation hours earned in the  
preceding year can not be determined until the final December payroll for that year has been  
processed but such information will be provided prior to the time set by the Company for  
submission of vacation requests by employees for consideration. Where a time period has  
previously been blocked out and the circumstances change such that the time period becomes  
available, employees requesting vacation for that time period will be considered on a seniority  
basis. Consideration will be given to requested time by the employee whenever possible. The  
employees with greater length of service will be given preference in the event of a conflict of  
dates requested affecting two (2) or more employees. The Shop Steward may be present during  
the vacation scheduling in December, The Company shall provide the report to employees of  
their vacation hours earned as soon as possible after the final December payroll for the previous  
year has been processed. Employees requesting vacation that exceeds their vacation hours  
eared will be allowed the time off without pay, as long as this does not interfere with other  
employee’s scheduled vacations or requested vacations and the proper running of the operation.  
Paid and unpaid time are treated equally under this article.  
-69-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
SECTION 20.8 Pay Rate For Vacation  
Vacations will be paid at the straight-time rate, but not less than the wage rate established  
under the Fair Labor Standards Act in effect at the time the vacation is taken. Those employees  
in tipped classifications will have vacation benefits paid at the appropriate non-tipped rate for  
Food/Beverage Steward on Appendix “A.”  
SECTION 20.9. Pay For Unused Vacation Hours at Termination of Employment  
(a) All regular full-time employees who have been continuously on the payroll for  
nine (9) months or longer and who voluntarily terminate their employment, shall receive  
payment for all unused vacation hours eamed based on the number of hours worked in  
accordance with the foregoing applicable formula.  
(6) The employee will not lose his/her pro rata vacation allowance in the case of  
termination except if terminated for drunkenness, dishonesty, illegal use, possession of  
controlled substances. Voluntarily terminated employees will be paid all earned but unused  
vacation and pro rata vacation hours accrued for use in the following year.  
SECTION 20.10. Cancellation of Pre-Approved Vacation  
When it is operationally necessary to cancel a vacation which has been pre-approved by  
management, the employee will be reimbursed for all documented unavoidable loss incurred as a  
direct result of the cancellation  
  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 21 —- JURY DUTY/BEREAVEMENT LEAVE PAY  
### SECTION 21.1. Jury Duty Pay for Regular Full-Time Employees  
All regular full-time employees are eligible for jury duty pay.  
(a) | The Company will pay an employee for his/her regularly scheduled shift while  
serving on jury duty, provided such time shall not to exceed eight (8) hours in any day and forty  
(40) hours in any pay period week. (Employees shall not be eligible to receive more than twenty  
(20) days of jury duty pay in any calendar year.) Deductions of jury duty fees paid will not be  
made unless service on the jury exceeds one (1) week.  
(b) If an employee is released from jury duty and four (4) or more hours remain in  
his/her scheduled shift, he/she is required to return to work that day.  
(c} | The Company reserves the right to petition the court to excuse any eligible  
employee from jury service when such employee’s services are needed by the Company because  
qualified replacements are not available or the employee’s absence would result in hardship on  
the Company.  
(d) Those employees in tipped classifications will have jury duty benefits paid at the  
appropriate non-tipped rate for Food/Beverage Steward on Appendix “A.”  
SECTION 21.2. Bereavement Leave Pay  
(a) Employees bereaved by the death of a member of their immediate family are  
granted time off, with pay, for time necessary to travel to and from the funeral location and  
attendance at the funeral.  
The deceased must have been a member of the immediate family household, such as  
spouse, child (natural or step), mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law or father-in-law,  
grandparent and grandchild. If a closer than normal relationship existed between the employee  
at be  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
and a person other than those named, consideration will be given toward payment of the  
bereavement benefit.  
Bereavement leave shall be paid up to a maximum of five (5) days. Payment will be  
based on the employee’s current rate. The relationship of the deceased and the location of the  
funeral must be noted on the request for bereavement pay status.  
An employee will be entitled to receive up to three (3) days of pay for actual time lost to  
attend in-state funerals and up to five (5) days of pay for actual time lost to attend out-of-state  
funerals. Additional unpaid time may be granted where appropriate.  
An employee who is on an authorized leave of absence is not eligible for this benefit,  
except in the case of an employee who is on a leave of absence to care for a relative covered  
above. That employee will be eligible for bereavement pay in the event of the death of that  
person.  
(b) Those employees in tipped classifications will have bereavement leave benefits  
paid at the appropriate non-tipped rate for Food/Beverage Steward on Appendix “A.”  
or  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 22 - INSURANCE AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  
### SECTION 22.1. Pension  
The Company agrees to contribute for each eligible, regular full-time employee covered  
by this Agreement the sums described below to the National Retirement Fund, formerly known  
as H.E.R.E. International Union Pension Fund (“Fund”) for the purpose of providing retirement  
benefits under the Fund, or such new merged, or consolidated plan as may be adopted by the  
Fund Trustees. Said contributions shall be submitted monthly, together with a report of the  
employee data required by the Fund, in the format préscribed by the Fund, no later than the  
fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month for which contributions are to be made.  
The Company and Union agree that eighty (80) percent of total contributions shall be used to  
determine the retirement benefits accrued by employees covered by this Agreement. Except as  
otherwise provided herein, the Company will make the following contributions:  
Effective June 1, 2012, $1.36 per hour worked  
Effective October 27, 2012, $1.48 per hour worked  
Effective June 1, 2013, $1.58 per hour worked  
Effective October 27, 2013, $1.70 per hour worked  
Effective June 1, 2014, $1.81 per hour worked  
Effective October 27, 2014, $1.88 per hour worked  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 22.1 of the Agreement, the  
Company shall have the right, in its sole and absolute discretion, to stop contributing to the Fund  
at any time, and shall be under no obligation to negotiate with the Union over, or to obtain the  
consent of the Union to such action. Any clection by the Company to stop contributing to the  
Fund shall be effective as of the date specified in a written notice from the Company to the  
Union, which date shall be no less than thirty (30) days after the date the notice is sent. A copy  
of any such written notice shall also be provided to the Fund. The Company acknowledges that  
any decision to stop contributing to the Fund will result in its withdrawal from the Fund and may  
-73-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
subject it to withdrawal liability to the Fund. In the event the Company elects to stop making  
contributions in accordance with this Section 22.1, it shal] negotiate with the Union regarding the  
substitution of other retirement benefits for employees covered by this Agreement.  
Subject to the Company's right to stop contributing to the Fund, the Company and the  
Union agree to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the Fund as it may, from  
time to time, be amended, and they do hereby irevocably designate as their respective  
representative on the Board of Trustees, such Trustees named in said Agreement and Declaration  
of Trust as Emplover and Union Trustees, together with their successors selected as provided  
therein, and agree to abide and be bound by all procedures established and actions taken by the  
Trustces pursuant to said Trust Agreement. Any provision that is inconsistent with the  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust, or the Plan of Benefits, rules, or procedures established by  
the Trustees, shall be null and void.  
SECTION 22.2. Group Insurance  
During the term of this Agreement, the Company will provide Group Insurance coverage  
to all eligible employees on the same basis as provided to non-bargaining unit employees  
(including salaried employees) at the Company. While guarantees cannot be made regarding  
costs of insurance or options, the Company agrees to maintain a comparable percentage split for  
premiums. The Shop Steward and Union Business Agent may be present during open  
enrollment (orientation) meeting (s).  
SECTION 22.3. Sick Leave  
(a) Regular full-time employees shall receive sick leave based on the number of  
straight-time hours (straight-time and overtime hours exclusive of the overtime premium) up to a  
maximum of 1800 hours worked from the date of hire to the end of the calendar year in which  
hired and for each succeeding calendar year thereafter. Sick leave earned in the first calendar  
-74-  
“16/6/30 254 PM  
year of service may not be used until nine (9) months of continuous service have elapsed from  
the date of hire, and in no event prior to the beginning of the calendar year following the year in  
which employed.  
With reasonable notice, regular full-time employees may request the use of two (2) days  
sick leave per calendar year as personal leave days, provided that the employee’s total sick leave  
bank does not fall below six (6) days. Requests will be granted consistent with operational  
requirements.  
(b) The following formula shall apply for the accumulation of paid sick leave hours  
each calendar year:  
Calendar Year Earned Sick  
Hours Worked Leave Hours  
1800 48  
1500 40  
1200 32  
900 24  
600 16  
300 8  
The maximum amount of sick leave that may be eamed in one (1) calendar year is forty-  
eight (48) hours. Unused sick leave may be accumulated, up to a maximum of cighty (80) work  
hours. Request for payment will be accepted on an annual basis (by calendar year).  
At the beginning of each calendar year, after the employee has completed the eligibility  
requirement, sick leave shall be made available for use during that calendar year based on the  
above-noted hour formula in the prior calendar year. Sick leave shall be paid at the rate of pay in  
effect at the time sick leave is requested by the employee.  
In order to be paid sick leave, the employee must file a request for payment on the  
appropriate form and submit the form to his/her supervisor. This must be done within three (3)  
  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
days after the employee returns to work. In the event that three (3) or more consecutively  
scheduled shifts of sick leave are applied for, the Company may request a written statement from  
a physician certifying as to the nature and length of the illness. However, the  
Company may require proof of illness in any case if desired and an employee not such  
proof will not be entitled to sick leave pay.  
Employees will not be entitled to sick leave during vacation or on days on which they are  
not scheduled to work. In the event the employee incurs a non-occupational illness while at work  
and is released from the completion of his/her scheduled shift by medical personnel, the  
employee may apply for sick leave covering the unworked balance of that shift in amounts of  
one (1) hour.  
An employee who reports for work after the start of his/her scheduled shift due to  
personal illness shall not be entitled to apply for sick leave pay covering the period between the  
start of his/her scheduled shift and the time the employee actually started to work.  
(c) | Employees who involuntarily terminate and who do not fali in the categories of  
drunkenness, theft, or illegal use or possession of controlled substances, will be paid 100% of  
eamed sick leave and one half of accrued sick leave, Termination for the three (3) categories  
listed above will not be paid any sick days either earned or accrued.  
(d) Those employees in tipped classifications will have sick leave benefits paid at the  
appropriate non-tipped rate for Food/Beverage Steward on Addendum “A.”  
-16-  
‘16/4/30 2:44PM  
### ARTICLE 23 - COSTUMES, UNIFORMS, AND PERSONAL  
### APPEARANCE  
SECTION 23.1. Costumes and Work Uniforms  
If the Company requires an employee to wear a uniform or costume, it will be furnished  
at the Company’s expense. Shoes shal] be furnished at the employee’s cost even if uniformity is  
required, provided they are generally accepted as street wear.  
SECTION 23.2. Safety and Sanitary Clothing and Equipment  
Where the Company, for safety purposes, requires protective clothing, shoes, or other  
safety devices, other than their haimets and headbands, they will be furnished without cost to the  
employees. The Union agrees to require all employees in those classifications listed in Appendix  
“A” to use the devices furnished.  
SECTION 23.3. Laundry and Cleaning of Clothing Paid by Company  
The cost of cleaning and laundering the clothing furnished under this Article shall be paid  
by the Company. Such clothing and other equipment will, at all times, remain the property of the  
Company and the employee who is issued any of these items will be fully responsible for seeing  
that they are properly cared for.  
SECTION 23.4. Penalty For Lost Clothing or Misuse of Clothing and Lost Locker  
Keys  
Each employee will be required to sign an authorization for the Company to deduct from  
wages the amount of money necessary to replace the employee’s company-furnished uniform in  
the event the uniform is not returned when required, or is defaced or willfully damaged. An  
unretumed or lost locker key will result in a wage deduction in the amount necessary to replace  
the lock on an employee’s locker. An employee who willfully defaces, destroys or misuses a  
company-fumished uniform is subject to disciplinary action, including dismissal.  
aa)  
96/6/30 2:54PM  
SECTION 23.5. Personal Appearance Rules Set Forth in Writing  
It is recognized that the Company may make and enforce rules relating to personal  
appearance which must be set forth in writing and must be reviewed with the Union prior to  
implementation.  
SECTION 23.6. Furnished Clothing Not to be Worn Off Disney World Premises  
Unless approved or otherwise authorized by the Company, company-furnished clothing is  
not to be worn off Walt Disney World premises outside of the employee’s working hours.  
-78-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 24 —- SAFETY AND HEALTH  
### SECTION 24.1. Company Responsibility  
The Company will continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its  
employees during the hours of their employment. The Company agrees that it will furnish and  
maintain sanitary toilet facilities, washrooms, lockers and changing quarters for ali employees  
covered by this Agreement.  
SECTION 24.2. Employee Responsibility  
All employees shall obey the Company’s safety and health rules.  
SECTION 24.3. Company-Union Cooperation  
(a) Representatives of the Company and the Union shall cooperate in the enforcement  
of all rules and practices to further safe and sanitary working conditions. The Company may hold  
safety meetings with required attendance by every employee covered by this Agreement, on  
work time, as a means of improving safety and educating employees in safe practices. A Union  
Representative may attend such meetings.  
(b) There will be one joint committee for both San Angel Inn and Springs Food Service  
and it shall meet twice a year. The Company and the Union shall inform each other of the names  
of the respective committee members within one month of ratification,  
SECTION 24,4. Examinations  
(a) The Company and the Union acknowledge that the provisions of the Americans  
with Disabilities Act, as well as parallel state legislation, apply to employees working under this  
Agreement. In this regard, the Company and the Union commit to meet to resolve potential  
conflicts between the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Agreement.  
-79.  
7:54PM  
(b) Applicants for employment with the Company may be required to undertake a  
post-offer, conditional-employment medical examination. Examinations will be conducted by a  
licensed physician designated and paid for by the Company.  
(c) Employees may be required by the Company to submit to a medical or  
psychological examination at the Company’s expense in the following situations:  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
When the Company needs to determine whether an employee is able to  
perform the essential functions of a position with or without  
accommodation and/or whether the employee can perform the essential  
functions of a position, with or without reasonable accommodation,  
without directly threatening his/her health or safety or that of others;  
When the Company concludes that it must determine whether reasonable  
accommodation is required, or where an employee has requested  
accommodation, including the nature and extent of such accommodation;  
When the Company concludes it must acquire medical advice to determine  
whether a local, state, or federal health or safety standard can be satisfied;  
When the Company is obligated by law to assess, monitor and/or maintain  
a record of an employee’s health status.  
(d) to Section 24.4(c)(2) above, the Company reserves the right to require an  
employee to undergo a physical examination by a licensed physician or certified health care  
provider designated by the Company at the Company’s request. If the employee disagrees with  
the medical opinion of the Company-designated physician, the employee may select, at his/her  
expense, a physician or appropriate certified health care provider to conduct the Company-  
required medical examination. The result of that examination must be submitted to the  
2:54PM  
Company-designated physician for concurrence. In the event the two physicians cannot agree,  
the Company and the employee shall select a third physician from a panel of three physicians  
supplied by the Company. The cost of the third physician will be paid by the Company.  
(e) Employees whom the Company determines are not able to perform the essential  
functions of a position, with or without reasonable accommodation, or who pose a direct threat  
that cannot be reasonably accommodated, will be considered to reassignment to vacant positions  
for which they meet the minimum qualifications. The Company shall not be required to create  
“light duty” positions for permanently disabled employees. In those instances where  
reassignment or other reasonable accommodation is not available, the employee may be  
terminated or placed on an appropriate leave of absence.  
(f) An employee’s rights to disability, workers’ compensation, or other benefits  
which are administered independently of this Agreement shall be determined exclusively by the  
plan terms and laws governing those benefits and not by arbitration under this Agreement.  
SECTION 24.5. Imminent Danger  
No employee shall be compelled to perform work or operate equipment that poses an  
imminent danger to life or serious physical harm to himself/herself.  
-81-  
16/6/90 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 25 — WORK BY SUPERVISORS  
It is recognized that the duties of a supervisor are, as the designation implies, largely of a  
supervisory nature. Accordingly, supervisors shall not perform work such as that performed by  
the employees as herein defined, except:  
(a)  
(b)  
(g)  
For emergency purposes.  
In the instruction and training of employees or supervisors.  
Work of an experimental nature.  
Testing materials and production.  
Start-up and closing-down of operations.  
To protect Company property and/or to ensure the safety of guests and/or  
employees.  
To provide uninterrupted services in order to ensure a positive guest and/or  
employee experience.  
  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 26 - EMERGENCY WORK AND RUNNING REPAIRS BY  
### EMPLOYEES  
SECTION 26.1. Emergency Work  
Any employee may be requested to perform emergency work, which includes any  
situation endangering other persons or which might result in property damage.  
SECTION 26.2. Running Repairs  
Running repairs may be performed by operating personnel covered by this Agreement, or  
by personnel regularly assigned to the department where the need for such repairs occurs.  
Running repairs are generally defined as minor maintenance repairs or adjustments which can be  
done without a cessation of normal operations, or where such repairs or adjustments can restore  
such equipment or unit to operation without an extended shut-down.  
-83-  
2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 27 — BULLETIN BOARDS  
The Company shall provide bulletin boards in all areas which are frequented by  
employees for the posting of official union notices. The board shall be covered with glass and  
under lock. The key shall remain in the possession of a supervisor. These boards shall be used  
for display of the following notices: union meetings, union appointments, union elections and  
official union social affairs and any Company-issued information. It is agreed that no union  
matter of any kind shall be posted in and about the premises of San Angel Inn or Coronado  
Springs except on said boards. It is agreed by the Union and management that it is the  
responsibility of each employee to be knowledgeable of notices posted. All such union notices  
shall bear a posting and a removal date.  
"6/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 28 —- SUBCONTRACTING  
During the term of this Agreement, the Company agrees that it will not subcontract work  
for the purpose of evading its obligations under this Agrcement. However, it is understood and  
agreed that the Company shall have the right to subcontract in the following instances and will  
give notice of such subcontracting to the Union when possible:  
(a) | Where some work is required to be sublet to maintain a legitimate manufacturer’s  
warranty; or  
(b) Where the subcontracting of work will not result in the termination or layoff, or  
the failure to recall from layoff, any regular full-time employee qualified and  
classified to do the work: or  
(c) | Where the employees of the Company lack the skills or qualifications or the  
Company does not possess the requisite equipment for carrying out the work; or  
(d) | Where because of size, complexity or time of completion, it is impractical or  
uneconomical to do the work with Company equipment and personnel.  
-85-  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 29 - ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE POLICY  
For purposes of this Agreement, the terms “drug” or "drug tests” shail include both drugs and alcohol, as  
appropriate. The Company and the Union recognize that many areas of the Company's operations  
involve hazardous work with the potentlal for personal injury or property damage and that all areas  
involve directly or indirectly the public at large. Therefore, it must endeavor to provide safe and efficient  
operations for the protection and benefit of the general public, its customers and its employees. As part of  
its effort to achieve that goal, it must require that its work be performed by employees who do not use  
ilegai drugs or misuse controlled substances and/or alcohol as follows:  
SECTION 1. The Company recognizes that employees have a right to privacy and that any adverse  
action taken against any employee for off-duty conduct shall take into account the employee's right to  
privacy and the impact of the employee's conduct on his/her job performance, the Company's reputation,  
or the public's perception of the Company's contract performance. Any disciplinary action for such drug-  
related conduct will be subject to the grievance procedure. With respect to any alleged off-duty related  
conduct, the arbitrator will be specifically instructed to balance the employee's right to privacy in his/her  
off-duty time with other legitimate job related concerns in weighing the contractual propriety of disciplinary  
action.  
SECTION 2, Bargaining unit employees will be subject te drug and alcohol testing under the following  
circumstances:  
(a) Where there is an objective reasonable basis that an employee has an in-system presence of any  
itegal drug, controlled substance or alcohol, hereinafter referred to as "substances", while on duty  
or on Company property immediately preceding or following the work shift. For purposes of this  
Agreement, the terms “employee” or “bargaining unit employee" includes not only persons  
employed in positions covered by the Union, collective bargaining agreement, but also persons  
being recailed into such positions.  
‘16/6/30 2:54PM  
(b) As part of a post-accident investigation in cases where:  
(c  
(d  
Tem  
Sem  
1. The individual{s) subject to testing Is directly linked to the accident.  
2. The accident resulted in death, injury requiring medical treatment other than basic first aid, or  
property damage estimated to exceed $4,500.00.  
Testing associated with an accident will take place as soon as possible, under the circumstances.  
A government agency duly concemed with (e.g., Department of Transportation, etc.) advises the  
Company that employees in specified classifications will be required to undergo job certification  
physical examinations, including drug tests as a condition of future employment. In such  
instances, the Union shall be given immediate notice of any such requirement or proposed  
requirement. Such testing shall be conducted in accordance with the government regulations and  
the procedures established by this Agreement and shall not commence until the Union and the  
Company have had a reasonable opportunity to discuss the impact of the government directive.  
Random testing as part of follow-up to rehabilitation and only for a reasonable period of time after  
rehabilitation supervised by the Company's Employee Assistance Program, or any successor  
thereto, not to exceed one year.  
SECTION 3. An employee will not be tested under Section 2(a) above unless his/her actions and/or  
conduct or other related circumstances provide an objective reasonable basis to believe that the  
employes may have ingested drugs or alcohol and/or is suffering from impairment that will in some way  
adversely affect his/her alertness, coordination, reaction, response, safety, or the safety of others, while  
on duty or on Company property. Where possible, this shall be discussed with the Union Shop Steward.  
Such observation will be confirmed by another member of supervision wherever possible and will be  
-87-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
documented. Employees will not be subject to such testing without the express consent of a senior  
member of Management different from the observation supervisor.  
SECTION 4. Any employee directed for tasting shail be advised of his/her right to the presence of a Shop  
steward before any pre-test meetings with Management. Provided a Shop Steward has been requested  
and is available, no specimen will be collected until the Shop Steward can discuss the matter with  
Management. The Union agrees that the procedures described in Sections 3 and 4 shall not operate in a  
manner that will Impede timely collection of a biological specimen. Refusal to provide a biological  
specimen will result in immediate discharge without an opportunity at a later date to reconsider/retract the  
refusal.  
SECTION 5. Any employee who tests negative to any drug test under this Agreement (other than follow-  
up testing to rehabilitation) shall be compensated for ail lost time, at the appropriate wage rate. Time lost  
under such circumstances shall be treated as time worked for purposes of premium eligibility.  
SECTION 6. Specimen collection for a drug test will be accomplished in a manner compatible with  
employee dignity and privacy. There will be no strip searches or opposite sex observation. In the usual  
case, the Company will not observe specimen production, but the Union agrees that specimen production  
may be closely monitored in those cases where the Company has a specific objective reason to believe  
that the employee may attempt to contaminate a test specimen. Any evidence of any form of tampering,  
altering, or diluting of a specimen will result In discharge.  
SECTION 7. Test specimens shall be sent only to laboratory facilities certified by an appropriate federal  
or state agency. The drug test laboratory and the specimen collection facility must establish and maintain  
a forensically acceptable chain of custody. It will be the burden of the Company to establish, in any case  
arising from a positive test result, that the appropriate chain of custody has been  
If a dispute should arise over the selection of drug test laboratories, such dispute shall be resalved by  
-88-  
16/6/30  
arbitration. The laboratory(s) selected must, upon request, Identify the drugs tested for, the methods  
used, the manufacturers of the test, the analytical limits and levels used, the methods of reporting results  
and the chain of custody procedures used to produce forensically acceptable test results. To be qualified  
under this section, the laboratory must participate in a program of "blind proficlency” testing where they  
analyze samples sent by an independent party.  
SECTION &. The drug test will be performed utilizing urinalysis to screen for the following substances:  
Amphetamines Marijuana Phencyclidine Cocaine Opiates  
The initial test shall use an immunoassay that meets the requirements of the Food and Drug  
Administration for Commercial Distribution. All specimens identified as positive in the initial test will be  
confirmed by a second procedure. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry or an equivalent scientifically  
acceptable method of confirmation will be used. All confirmed positive test results will be verified by a  
Medical Review Officer prior to release to the Company. The Medical Review Officer, upon written  
raquest from the employee, will report test results to the Union Business Agent. Tha Union agrees that  
Florida Hospital Centra Care is an acceptable Medical Review Officer but reserves the right to withhold  
approval of Florida Hospital Centra Care with adequate notice in the event that Florida Hospital Centra  
Care status should change in the future.  
SECTION 9. The standard drug test thresholds for positive screen and GC/MS confirmation tests shail be  
the same as those called out in the Federal Register, and may be modified whenever changed by the  
Department of Health and Human Services as advances in technology or other considerations warrant  
identification of new substances and/or concentrations.  
In the event that the Company elects to utillze tests other than the EMIT screen or the GC/MS  
Confirmation, the Company will give the Union written notice of the test methodology used and the  
threshold levels employed. Positive thresholds for any other test methodologies will be reviewed with the  
-89-  
16/6/30 254PM  
Union before they are applied. Any dispute over the acceptapllity of such alternative test methodologies  
or the positive test threshold to be applied shall be resolved by arbitration. It will be the burden of the  
Company to establish the acceptability of the test and the reasonableness of the threshold.  
SECTION 10. The laboratory shail preserve a sufficient aliquot specimen as to permit independent  
confirmatory testing by the employee and follow-up re-analysis at the request of the Union or the  
Company. Any re-analysis performed wiii be done on the original sample provided. The Medical Review  
Officer shall endeavor to notify the Company and the employee of positive test results within five (5)  
working days after receipt of the specimen. The employee may request, in writing, a re-analysis within  
three (3) working days from notice of positive test result. Additionally or as an alternative, the employee  
may have the sample tested at a certified laboratory of his/her choice. Should this test result be negative,  
the test results will be considered negative.  
SECTION 114. initial tests and re-analysis requested by the Company will be paid by the Company; costs  
of re-analysis for reconciliation will be split between the employee and the Company. In the event the  
initial test is proven to be a false positive the employee shall be reimbursed for cost of test procedures  
paid for by the employse.  
SECTION 12. The drug test laboratory and the specimen collection facility must establish and maintain a  
forensically acceptable chain of custody. It will be the burden of the Company to establish, in any case  
arising from a positive test result, that the appropriate chain of custody has been maintained.  
SECTION 13. Where employees are required under this policy to submit blood samples for alcohol  
testing, the samples will be taken in an appropriate facility. The collection facility and laboratory  
will use the same or equivalent chain of custody procadures and exercise the same or an equivalent fevel  
of professional care and accepted standards and procedures in the collection and testing of  
blcod samples for the presence of alcohol as with urine samples for the presence of drugs. For the  
purposes of this policy if a test reveals the presence of alcohol at a level of .08% or more by weight, it  
-90-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
shall be presumed that the employee has violated this policy. If the test reveals the presence of alcohol in  
excess of .05% by weight, but less than .08%, the results of the test will be considered along with all other  
relevant information (e.g. employee conduct, speech, performance, etc.) in determining whether the  
employee is in violation of this policy. If a test reveals the presence of alcohol of less than .05% by  
weight, it shall be presumed that the employee is not under the influence of alcohol in violation of this  
policy. The presumption regarding the presence of alcohol of less than .05% by weight is rebuttable  
based on consideration of all other relevant information (e.g., employee conduct, speech, performance,  
etc.}. The Company bears the burden of proof In rebutting such presumption. In the event an employee  
objects to alcoho! testing by blood sample, the Company will test the employee through an evidentiary  
alcoho! breath analyzer which conforms to the same standards as cited above.  
The parties agree that use of an evidentiary alcoho! breath analyzer, which is properly calibrated and  
which Is operated by a certified technician, shall be conclusive proof of the accuracy of the results.  
Furthermore, the Company reserves the right to abandon blocd samples in favor of the alcohol breath  
analyzer referenced above,  
SECTION 14. Any employee who has a confirmed positive test will be required to participate in the  
Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Failure to seek and receive EAP assistance or failure to abide by  
the terms and conditions or prescribed treatment will be grounds for discharge. If an employee is subject  
to disciplinary action under existing practices, the use of substances shall not be a defense to circumvent  
existing practices or to avoid disciplinary action. Participation in the EAP shall be taken into account in  
considering appropriate disciplinary action. No employee shall be discharged as a result of a positive drug  
or alcohol test pursuant to Section 2(a) (b) above, so long as he or she agrees to participate in an EAP,  
the cost of which will be covered by Company-provided health Insurance to the extent required by the  
plan terms. In instances where it is necessary, a leave of absence may be granted for treatment or  
rehabilitation through the EAP for substances on the same basis as it is granted for other medical  
conditions.  
-91-  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
SECTION 15. Test results shail be communicated by the Medical Review Officer, or the designated  
Company representative. Tha Company shail be responsible for maintaining confidentiality of test records  
and test resuits will be communicated to job site Management strictly on a "need to know’ basis.  
Employee drug test records shall not be released outside the unless required by administrative action  
initlated by the or the Union. The employes shall be entitied to written notification of positive  
drug test results. Copies of such reports will be provided to the Union when authorized in writing by the  
affected employee.  
SECTION 16. Except in the case of a positive random test after referral to the EAP which shall be  
conciusive proof of just cause for termination, when and if it becomes necessary to impose discipline for  
drug related conduct or job performance, discipline will be judged by the contractual just cause standard  
and will be subject to the grievance/arbitration procedure. Except to the extent the employee(s) withholds  
written consent as to particular documents personai to him, the Company agrees to provide the Union, in  
advance, with whatever documentation or information the Union reasonably requires to process the  
grievance and/or arbitration. By establishing this policy, neither the Company nor the Union waives any  
legal rights. The parties agree that this drug policy shall not diminish the rights of individual employees  
under state or faderal law relating to drug testing.  
SECTION 17. The Company shall provide education for Management personne! regarding observation  
techniques, the availability and desirability of the Employee Assistance Programs and the need for  
observing strict confidentiality. Supervisors will be provided guidelines for maintaining confidentiality of ail  
drug-related information and referring employees who may have a problem to appropriate counseling.  
SECTION 18. The Company agrees that it shall indemnify and hold the Union harmiess against any and  
all complaints, claims, judgments, or demands that may arise out of, or in any way are related to, the  
Union's negotiation or participation in the foregoing drug policy applicable to bargaining unit employees  
and applicants, or the Company's activities in carrying out this drug testing program.  
.9}.  
‘16/6/30  
### ARTICLE 30 —- INTERPRETATION  
The parties hereto may interpret, alter or amend this Agreement by mutual action in  
writing, and no individual employee shall have cause to complain therefore, it being understood  
that any interpretation or arrangement mutually satisfactory to the parties hereto shall be binding  
upon all individual employees, whether such action be prospective or retroactive.  
  
16/6/30) 2:54PM  
### ARTICLE 31 —- SEVERABILITY  
It is not the intent of either party hereto to violate any laws or any or regulations  
of any governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this  
Agreement and the parties hereto agree that in the event any provision of this Agreement is held  
or constituted to be void as being in contravention of any such laws, rulings or regulations,  
nevertheless, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, unless the  
parts so found to be void are wholly in separable from the remaining portion of this Agreement.  
16/6/30  
### ARTICLE 32 — TERMS OF AGREEMENT  
### SECTION 31.1. Term  
This Agreement and any further amendment or supplement hereto shall be in full force  
and effect from_April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2018, and from year-to-year thereafter, subject  
to the right of either party to terminate the same as of March 31, 2015.upon the giving of written  
notice of termination, not later than sixty (60) days next preceding the effective date of such  
termination.  
SECTION 31.2. Complete Agreement  
The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement,  
each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any  
subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the  
understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties, after the exercise of that right and  
opportunity, are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Company and the Union, for the life  
of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right and each agrees that the  
other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred  
to or covered in this Agreement, except as provided specifically in Section 2 of this Article, or  
with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement,  
even though such subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation  
of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.  
### PAL VICES, LLC UNITE HEB#;LOCAL 737  
Richard D. Debler, President  
   
-95-  
‘16/6/40 2:54PM  
### ADDENDUM “A”  
### BARGAINING UNIT: COVERED JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY  
Non-Tipped Classifications  
    
    
   
      
   
Effective Effective Effective  
10/01/2015 10/05/2016  
Job Classification Min Max Min Max Min Max  
Chef Assistant SSID | Sass | |  
Chef Assistant Pastry/Bakery Ai $78.62 | GPa  
| sinh |  
Cook | Pastry/Bakery | ig  
Cook 2 ig |  
Cook 2 Pastry/Bakery parla | SIRES | |  
:  
Food Handler ( Rae SiZ20 1 Seas | Slave  
Sia  
### SP 2G  
     
Food Service H/H (QSR) GTS Su  
Steward  
     
    
     
     
    
   
       
      
iid su ia  
      
Employees whose rates of pay are above the maximum amount listed will receive the increase granted above.  
Tipped Classifications  
   
   
Job Classification LIU IS  
   
   
   
Beverage H/H salu | Sag Si.dB |  
Food & Bev Server (T) Bid 52.49 |  
i | |  
### NOTES:  
Note 1: Excluded from Bargaining Unit - All other employees, including, but not limited to,  
foreign nationals working under a temporary permit or visa; e.g., “J” or “Q” visa, office clerical  
employces, guards and supervisors, as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, as amended.  
Note 2: Rate adjustments will be effective at the beginning of the first payroll period following  
the effective dates indicated. Rate adjustments will apply to all employees on the scheduled  
date; i.e., increases will not be administered on the employee’s hire date anniversary.  
Note 3: Employees, whose scheduled increase in rate of pay will exceed the “Max” amount on  
the applicable rate schedule will receive, but not exceed, the maximum rate allowed.  
16/6/40 2:54PM  
Note 4: Any mistake or error(s) in rates of pay as set forth in this Appendix A will be corrected  
by the Company.  
Note 5: If the federal minimum wage for a job class is higher than the agreed upon rate, the  
minimum wage shall prevail.  
16/6/30 2:54PM  
Letter of Understanding  
Palmas Services (San Angel Inn and Springs Food Services)  
And  
UNITE HERE Local 737  
San Angel Inn Servers’ Schedules (Renewal from 2012 negotiations)  
This Letter of Understanding is between Palmas Services (“Company”) and Unite Here},  
Local 737.  
Following ratification, the parties will sign a Letter of Understanding that states the  
following:  
It is the Company’s intention that servers in San Ange! Inn will normally be scheduled to  
work complete meal service periods and will not normally be scheduled to start or end a shift  
in the middle of a meal service period. Should the Company foresee an operational situation  
which requires servers to be scheduled in the middle of a meal service period, the Company  
will notify and meet with the Union with as much advance notice as possible. The least  
senior person(s) scheduled on that day will be scheduled for such a middle shift.  
This letter of Understanding expires at the end of the term of the 2015 Agreement.  
7 tok  
Date em -Heicken Date  
Scott Wallace 5  
President  
Unite Here! Local 737  
    
