2:48 EM K9838  
‘16/4/20 2:18PM  
Palmas Services (San Angel Inn and  
Springs Food Services)  
(the “Company”)  
and  
UNITE HERE Local 737  
(the “Union”)  
Part-Time Bargaining Unit  
Effective:  
Expiration: March 31, 2018  
1 | 2 “48 nM  
   
zens  
   
hy  
tains  
W104,  
pres  
“SECTION 129, Diu on Se  
     
.  
*  
Saat]?  
eee 12.4,"  
   
ae  
5. Wonk Stan at Uiliztion of otha  
     
   
TION 12. 8; —_— emai Employment Requirements. os  
   
et  
  
so  
   
fe  
     
   
### ARTICLE 13 AND ee :  
ra a  
4  
   
### LAYOFFS AND RECALLS eee  
14, I Stan hee to Seniority in Job rn  
          
a ‘no to  
24h PM  
16/4/20) 2:18 PM  
   
SECTION 14.5. Recall 33  
SECTION 14.6. Correct Address and Telephone Number  
SECTION 14.7. Failure to Report From Layoff 34  
SECTION 15.1. Interchangeability — 35  
SECTION 15.2, Assignment to Two or More Different Job Classifications... se 35  
SECTION 15,3. Assignment to New Job Classification  
SECTION 15.4. Assignment, Reassignment or Transfer of Shop an 36  
### ARTICLE 16 — LEAVE OF ABSENCE  
### SECTION 16.1. Temporary Leave Of ABSENCE 37  
SECTION 16,2. Leave for Union —— 37  
SECTION 16.3. Family and Medical Leave 37  
SECTION 16.4. Other Non-Occupational Medical Al  
SECTION 16.5. Leave for Compensable Injury 42  
SECTION 16.6. Medical Leaves Exceeding Ome 42  
SECTION 16.7. Employee Medical Information (Confidential).............  
SECTION 16.8. Administrative 43  
### ARTICLE 17 - DISCIPLINE, STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND 45  
SECTION 17.1. Standard of Conduct 45  
SECTION 17.2. Union ee 45  
SECTION 17.3. Notice of Investigation 45  
SECTION 17.4. Disciplinary/Investigatory  
SECTION 17.5. 46  
SECTION 17.6. Discharge aaa 47  
SECTION 17.7. Absenteeism and Tardiness Standards 48  
SECTION 17.8. Clock in/Clock out 50:  
### ARTICLE 18 = GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE........... 52  
### SECTION 18.1. Grievance Settled According to §2  
SECTION 18.2, Definitions  
SECTION 18.3. Grievance Procedure. eee §3  
SECTION 18.4. Grievance Settlements See 55  
### ARTICLE 19 —HOLIDAYS 56  
### ARTICLE 20 — VACATION 56  
~3.  
   
17/6/14 2:48 PM  
ai  
### “SECTION ii A  
“a. . ="  
“tot a  
SBCTION24.1. Company  
cas  
  
com oa  
ee aut  
### ARTICLE 25.  
- atta » *  
### “ae EMERGENCY 8 WORK. AND RUNNING REPAIRS: RS EMPLOYEES.  
   
oe  
ee  
et 2: sal AND ‘DRUG / ABUSE  
   
   
2:48PM  
"6/4/20 2:18PM  
### ARTICLE 1 — PREAMBLE  
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into ound effective this 14, 2016, by and between  
—Paimas Services (SerrAngel-Inn-and Springs Foud-Services) ‘called: “Gompany"and- UNFFE HERE-———  
Local 737, hereinafter called “Union”.  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 218 PM  
### ARTICLE 2 - PURPOSE  
The parties hereto have entered into this Agreement to recognize the Union, to establish  
enn es working contions and benefitrand to put into patie effective and binding methods —————  
  
for the settlement of all misunderstandings, disputes or grievances that may arise between the  
parties hereto, to the end that the Company i is assured complete continuity of operation and that  
labor-management peace is maintained and employees are guaranteed union rights and protection  
as provided by this Agreement.  
-6-  
   
17/6/14 2:48 PR  
1614/28  
ane  
   
Fog teat  
aad  
   
2:48 PM  
16/4/20 2:18PM  
### ARTICLE 4~ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
Except as expressly and clearly limited by the terms of this Agreement, the Company  
~~ —————  
management of the business, including, but not limited to, its right to select and direct the number  
of employees assigned to any particular classification of work, which shall include “authentic”  
personnel, i¢., foreign nationals working under a temporary permit or pursuant to a “J” or a “Q”  
visa in all classifications of work and in all areas covered by this labor contract; to subcontract  
work, to establish and change work schedules and assignments; to lay off, terminate or otherwise  
release employees froin duty for lack of work or other just cause; to make and enforce rules for  
personal grooming and the maintenance of discipline; to discontinue conduct of its business or  
operations in whole or part; to institute technological changes and otherwise to take such —  
as management may determine ta be necessary to the orderly, efficient and economical operation  
of the business.  
   
17/6/14 2:48PM  
   
   
  
  
1 waiver of  
* all eer fori any other cause be j in arly way.  
   
     
   
   
fe a te be 803  
wit a party to such No: pi  
    
   
     
cketing or eh action against any one ‘OF.’  
   
    
     
   
2:4 PM  
16/4/20 2:18 PAM  
more of the concessionaires will be conducted at the Company’s facility or any of its entrances or  
exits. “Concessionaire,” as used herein, includes a concessionaire and also a licensee, exhibitor,  
  
pickets at or near Walt Disney World, or the World Showcase, EPCOT Center or at  
Coronado Springs Resort, the Union agrees that such picket line so far as it and the employees it  
fepresents are concerned shall not affect the operation of the Company.  
SECTION 5.5. Expedited Arbitration for Article 5  
Either party to this Agreement may institute the following procedure in lieu of or in  
addition to any other action at law or equity, when a breach of this Article is alleged.  
(2) The party invoking this procedure shall notify the Walt Disney World/Service  
Trades Counci} Union Arbitrator, whom the parties agree shall be the permanent Arbitrator under  
this proceeding. In the event the permanent Arbitrator is unavailable, he/she shall appoint his/her  
alternate, Notice to the Arbitrator shall be by the most expeditious means available, with a notice  
by any form of electronic communication to the Business Manager of the Union.  
(b) Upon receipt of said notice, the Arbitrator named above or his/her alternate shall  
set and hold a hearing within twenty-four (24) hours.  
(c) The Arbitrator shall notify the parties by any form of electronic communication of  
the place and time he/she has chosen for this hearing. Said hearing shall be completed in one  
session with appropriate recesses at the Arbitrator’s discretion. A failure of any party or parties to  
attend said hearing shal! not delay the hearing of evidence or issuance of an Award by the  
Arbitrator.  
{d) The sole issue at the hearing shall be whether or not a violation of this Article has  
in fact occurred and the Arbitrator shall have no authority to consider any matter in justification,  
explanation or mitigation of such violation or to award damages, which issue is reserved for court  
-10-  
17/6/14 2:43PM  
16/4/20  
     
not waive any  
   
Tans 4!  
a final Order-of  
#  
   
# ..  
+ 5 ™ .  
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 215 PM  
### ARTICLE 6 ~ NEW EMPLOYEE SELECTION  
SECTION 6.1. -  
————~-———Fhe-Company-agrees-to-notif-the-Union-of-all-needs-for-emplayees-covered-by-this ——_______  
Agreement and will give the Union an equal opportunity to provide applicants for. such jobs.  
However, the Union recognizes that pursuant to the “World Showcase Agreement”  
with Walt Disney World Co., it must staff and employ authentic national personnel for certain  
positions and for selected purposes.  
SECTION 6.2. ~  
The Union will refer employees on a non-discriminatory basis.  
a] 20  
Ber :  
wes det te  
=e ote  
   
2:48 PM  
16/4/20 218 FM  
### ARTICLE 8 — UNION ACTIVITY AND CHECK-OFF  
### SECTION &.1. Union Solicitation  
Solleitation-for- Union-purposes-by-the-Union-shall- not ake-place-on-working-sime, i  
working areas or in public areas, but may be conducted in non-working areas and on non-working  
time in parking areas, break areas and lunchrooms.  
SECTION 8.2. Access of Union Representatives to Premises  
Representatives of the Union, designated in writing to the Company by the Union, shall be  
permitted to enter the non-public areas of the Company for the purpose of determining tha this  
Agreement is being complied with by the Company and for the presentation and handling of  
grievances. Such representatives, who shell not be more than a total of three (3) in number at any  
one time, unless mutually agreed otherwise, shall comply with the access segutation and security  
regulation of Walt Disney World Company, as furnished to each union representative by Walt  
Disney World Company, and shall not interrupt the performance of employee work assignments.  
The Company will coordinate with a Union Representative to arrange an opportunity to  
make an introductory presentation to newly hired regular full time bargaining unit employees bi-  
annually on unpaid time.  
SECTION 8.3. Shop Steward or Alternate  
(a) The Union shall have the right to designate Shop Stewards in a number mutually  
agreed upon by the parties. The number of Shop Stewards may be changed by mutual agreement  
of the parties. The Union shall, in writing, notify the Company as to the identity of the designated  
Shop Steward. The Shop Steward shall have the right to receive, but not to promote, complaints  
or differences and to discuss and assist in the adjustment of the same with the appropriate  
supervisor on Company property without loss of pay during his/her regular working hours. The  
Company will not discriminate against the Shop Steward in the proper performance of his/her  
-14-  
  
we haute ot  
  
shall: ‘promote ‘harmonious -re . 5 between,  
aut  
:  
4) week folowing  
‘ee  
Maa  
“month i in we the es are cas ‘The Company s shall also  
“off report, in Excel  
   
2:48 PM  
"6/4/70 2:18PM  
social security number and the amount of the deduction, The Union agrees  
to indemnify and save the Company against any and ail claims,  
eS a suits or other forms of ibility rising out of the deduction of money for  
union dues from employees’ pay. The Union assumes full responsibility for  
the disposition of the monies so deducted once they have been turned over  
to the certified financial secretary or other properly designated official of  
the Union.  
(b) The company agrees to provide the Union with a monthly member/non-  
member list, The list shall include each employee's full name, social  
security number, phone number, rate of pay, address, date of hire, job title,  
department (location within the company, if applicable), Full-Time or Part-  
Time status, and email address, if available to the company. The  
information will be provided electronically, in Exce] format, and shail  
indicate employee’s Union or non Union status. In addition, the company  
agrees to provide the Union with information regarding new hires and  
terminations on each monthly bargaining unit list. The Union agrees to  
indemnify and save the Company harmless any and all claims, suits  
or other forms of liability arising out of the provision to the Union of the  
above monthly member / non-member list and security of all the contents  
contained in the member / non- member list.  
(c)} UNITE HERE TIP Campaign Committee. The Company shall provide for payroll  
deduction for all employees who voluntarily authorize such a deduction as a contribution to the  
UNITE HERE TIP Campaign Committee, or any successor thereto. All payrol! deductions to the  
   
‘17/6/14 2:48 PM  
16/4/20) 2:18PM  
### ARTICLE 9-— HOURS OF WORK  
### SECTION 9.1. Work Week |  
week” for parttime employees salt consist ofa perod-oF seven (7)days starting .  
at 12: 00 a.m. on each Sunday and ending. at 12: 00 a.m. on the same day i in the following week,  
This shall constitute the regularly scheduled workweek but is not a guaranteed workweek.  
SECTION 9.2. Payrolf Period «  
The payroll period will be bi-weekly. ‘The company will thake paychecks available to  
employees from the start of operations to the close of operation on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.  
SECTION 9.3. Payroll Day  
A payroll day is a period of twenty-four (24) hours starting at 12:00 a.m. and ending at  
12:00 a.m. the following dey.  
SECTION 3.4. Work Day  
A regularly scheduled workday shall consist of a minimum of four (4) or more hours. This  
shall also apply to mandatory meetings employees are required to attend by the Company.  
However, hours spent in training or instruction required by a governmental entity or regulatory  
agency for work-related licensing or certificates of general applicability, and which may be  
provided by the Company, are not recorded or counted as “work” hours for any purpose under this  
Agreement and are not compensable. Company will schedule classes as closely to the  
beginning/end of shift as possible and employees may attend classes at either (San Angel  
Inn or Springs Food Service). In the event that an employee is unable to attend a scheduled class  
for any reason, the employee will have thirty (30) days to obtain the applicable certification at  
his/her expense. Failure to comply within the thirty (30) days will result in the suspension of the  
employee until certification is obtained and provided to the Company.  
os  
ay  
   
   
   
  
“Bich will be: a fificen (15) minute r =e period fe te  
    
    
     
   
    
   
4  
+  
provided as nearly as possible to re  
. Puy  
“the rest period in. eee with its needs, Rest will. be  
vung 4  
   
    
   
   
     
     
         
ht.(8) hour shift of hear’ the tniddle of short four @ or st  
   
2:48 PM  
16/4/20 215 PM  
shifts, unless otherwise agreed ta by the parties. Due to the nature of of the dining room  
and the interest of the servers, rest periods for servers will not be provided or paid. However, the.  
   
7 seating staff wil continue to-get est periods consistent wth the provisions inthis Seton  
SECTION 9.8. Culinary and Stewarding Scheduling  
Except when and where required for “authenticity,” or when & hecessary to provide  
uninterrupted operations. for the guests” ‘experience, all ‘available Culinary and  
Stewarding employees within the location will be offered all hours of work prior to scheduling any  
non-Culinary or non-Stewarding labor.  
  
   
  
1644/20  
a on  
urs will fe Se and distributed to those most senior qualifj  
   
re  
in the work’ anid 'thien to ¢ any of  
‘Thiost st ualifc od and — oat wit will be require to’  
   
   
    
to give | the employee as  
4  
.. Possible for the invo  
  
  
   
ae  
“involuntary than. fourteen 4) consecutive 3  
at  
   
el  
gt oe  
ate ae  
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 2:18PM  
SECTION 10.4. Time and One-Half  
(1) Over Forty Hours in Payroll Week. The Company will follow federal laws  
   
  
straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one payroll week.  
(2) All Non-Tipped Full Time employees will get ALL OVERTIME before the Non-  
Tipped Part Time Employees.  
SECTION 10.5, No Pyramiding of Premium Rates  
Where two or more premium rates apply to the same hour of work, the higher will be paid,  
and there will be no pyramiding of any premium rates.  
  
. SECTION 11.2, Rates 2 for New  
ne Coipany. Tf the Union does not rate for tie  
tbe effective a3 of the date the  
the ho Procedure ¢  
i  
he/she will be vai & ure $. 80 ina addition ss hla salgh ne rate  
  
and: who are ne  
oine the end of of thi shift. “However, if an  
“of four (4). hours it are sent ho  
a  
‘  
   
2:4 PM  
16/4/20 2:18  
### PM  
employee voluntarily accepts an offer for early release, the employee wil] only be paid for hours  
actually worked.  
-  
conditions beyond the contro! of the Company, such as fire, fload, hurricane, or other Act of God,  
civil disturbances, picketing or threats of harm.  
(d) The provisions of this Article apply to all scheduled shifts, including overtime, with  
the exception of shift extensions which will be paid at actual hours worked,  
SECTION 11.5. Pay for Day When Injured  
In the event an employee incurs a serious occupational illness or injury and medical  
personne] excuse the employee from further work on that day, he/she shall be paid the unworked  
balance of his/her scheduled shift. Pay for the unworked balance of his/her shift due to an  
occupational injury shall be considered as “time worked” for purposes of computing overtime and  
for pension contribution.  
SECTION I1.6. Payday  
Employees shall be paid bi-weekly and their pay will not be delayed more than six (6) days  
from the end of each payroll period, providing, however, that if a payday falls on an employce’s  
regularly scheduled day off or a paid holiday, he/she shall receive his/her paycheck on his/her next  
regularly scheduled workday. An employee shall receive vacation pay in the last regularly  
scheduled pay check prior to the commencement of his/her vacation.  
In order to reduce the potential for payroll errors, the union agrees to affirmatively  
encourage employees to properly use the time clock system. When a pay shortage occurs, the  
Company will, upon an employee’s timely request, and consistent with the procedure used by the  
Company as may be modified from time to time, issue 2 check for the pay shortage that is due no  
248 PM  
an.  
Ae and will Be paid. a one: dollar  
ghee seting ‘quality and ‘quantity’  
ty  
uring the ofie huridred id ighy fa 80) vc ‘in the  
+  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 718 PM  
qualifying period that the employee’s performance i is not satisfactory or if the employee requests  
a return to within the one hundred eighty (180) days, the Company will return the employee to  
prior job <lassifcton an the Employee shall be to-——____--——  
transfer again,  
d) If a full time employee is regularly assigned to a work schedule that requires him/her to  
work for more than 60% of his/her time as a coordinator for a period of more than one hundred  
and eighty consecutive days, the position will be posted and filled { in accordance with this article  
### Il.  
¢) Employees in the coordinator role who in a rolling twelve (12) month period receive two  
(2) reprimands in accordance with Article 17 or any three reprimands will be returned to his/her  
prior job classification. If the prior job classification was a Coordinator, he/she will be  
returned to the job classification held prior to the Coordinator role.  
f) Any employee shall not be eligible for transfer to a Coordinator role if he/she has any  
reprimand in the prior six (6) months.  
Trainers  
Trainers may be designated by the Company in any of the classifications set forth in  
Appendix “A.” Trainers will be paid a one dollar ($1.00) per hour differential for all actual training  
hours.  
=26-  
2:48 PM  
   
wee oe ot ae  
freee te  
   
2:48 PM  
"6/4/28 2:15 PM  
SECTION 12.5. Work Status and Utilization of Part-Time and Casual Employees  
(b) Probationary regular part-time employees shall be. considered ____  
probationary employees for a period of ninety (90) calendar days. The Company reserves the right  
to terminate their employment for any reason until they: have completed any such probationary  
périod. However, probationary employees shall be entitled to utilize the Grievance Procedure to  
grieve any matter that could be grieved by any other employee, except termination within the  
probationary period. Any employee who has completed the ninety (90) calendar day probationary  
period and subsequently converts status (Full time to Part time or Part time to Full timne) in the  
same job classification will not have to complete another probationary period but will receive a  
new bargaining unit seniority date as of the date of the conversion. An employee’s disciplinary  
record shall not be affected by the change in status.  
(c} Part-Time Employees.  
(1) Employees will be considered part-time if they customarily work less than  
thirty (30) hours per week on an ongoing basis, or if they customarily work thirty (30) hours per  
week or more but less than seven (7) months per year.  
(2) During the life of this Agreement, and unless required for “authenticity”  
reasons, total casual employee (including part-time, seasonal, etc.) utilization shall not exceed  
thirty-percent (30%) of the total hours worked by full-time and casual employees in all jab  
classifications in any calendar year.  
(d) The parties acknowledge that Section 12.5(c) is the sole restriction on the  
Company’s ability to schedule and work casual employees.  
(ec) Conversion from Part-Time to Full-Time. The Company will give consideration to  
Union petitions for conversion from part-time to full-time status, as long there is an open position  
~2§-  
1/6/14 248 PM  
~ a  
yas it relates io of  
4  
. =  
schedule hang living  
i ort to maintain: an  
etc., the will be pies on a leave  
eave’ period: is: 1  
permit, geet certification and/or 0  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 , 2:18 PM  
(b) Immigration Status. In the event that an employee is not authorized to work in the  
United States following the probationary period and his/her employment is terminated  
for-this-reason;-the-  
job classification without loss of prior seniority (seniority, vacation or other benefits  
do not continue to accrue during the period of absence) upon the employee providing  
proper work authorization within sixty (60) days from the date of termination.  
| days; unless: needs re  
tare  
transfers to different ©  
locations and/or r different ‘fob classifications, s«  
4  
x  
ney  
onths i int "work location:  
i oi necessary to ‘perform i  
bie +  
Overall Jo  
moyen followi i wing the epost  
7 var wy  
.  
g period for up: to. five  
  
2 fui chin 5 five (45) talendar days S, the Company  
   
2:48 PM  
“6/4/20 2158 PM  
SECTION 13.3. Transfers to Different Locations  
Employees who transfer within the same job. classification but to a different location shall  
-~be-placed-on- forty-five (45)-day-quelifying period If -the- during the-forty~  
   
five (45) day qualifying period that the employee’ s performance is not satisfactory. or if the  
employee requests a return to the prior location within the forty-five (45) days, the Company shall  
return the employee to the next available opening in the same job classification in a different  
location, if available.,  
a  
t .comipany-  
  
  
SECTION 14.8, Re  
letter to the s address of record notifying him/her of recall  
   
17/6/14 2:48 TM  
16/4/20 218 PM  
date, which shall not be less than ten (10) workdays from the date the letter is mailed. A copy of  
any such letter shall be mailed to the Union.  
~—- SECTION 14.6. Correct Address and-Felephone Number ~~ --_—_—- ~--  
Failure of an employee to have a current address and telephone number on record in the  
Human Resources Department will relieve the Company of its responsibility of notification to the  
érmnployee under any Article of this Agreement.  
### SECTION 14.7. Failare to Report from Layolf  
An employee who fails to report for work as scheduled on recall from layoff shall be  
considered to have voluntarily terminated his/her employment unless such employee has notified  
the Company of personal illness or a death in the immediate family prior to the date he/she was  
scheduled to report to work.  
7h ns *  
jer job  
  
dae  
  
MOE, job classi fications diiring the day,  
ee . The  
me mere ais: mes to work at  
ar all time worked in:the higher: rica  
not  
Se  
be required to or work’ ina a ti  
ie 10 a J job othier than the job classification that i is his  
Saal  
o buch job classification.  
  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 2B PM  
employee shall not be required to work against his/her desire in the new classification for a period  
of time exceeding ten (10) workdays.  
### SECTION Shop  
In the administration of this Article, the Company will not involuntarily assign, reassign or  
transfer Shop Stewards.  
-36-  
era  
sd mica leave  
  
the} eee 72.  
st-atse ‘all of his.c or ‘her accrued vacation leave, sick  
is requested for ‘any other reason listed below, an em  
   
2:4 PM  
16/4/20 2:18 PM  
must first use al! of his or her accrued paid vacation or personal leave. The remainder of the leave  
period will then consist of unpaid leave.  
Leave-Period.—Arr eligi ble-employee-is-entitled-te-take-up-te-e-maximum-of-12--..———_—.  
weeks of family or medical leave in any 12-month period. The 12-month period shall be a rolling  
12-month period measured backward from the date the leave is used. Entitlement to leave for the  
birth or placement of a child for adoption or foster care will expire 12 months from the date of  
birth or placement.  
Reasons for Leave. An employee who meets with the applicable eligibility  
requirements will be granted a total of up to 12. weeks of unpaid _— for the following reasons:  
1. The birth of the child and in order to care for that child;  
2. The placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care;  
3. The care for 2 spouse, child, or parent who has a serious health condition;  
or  
4. A serious health condition thet. renders the employee incapable of  
performing the functions of his or her job.  
If a husband and wife both work for the Company, the aggregate leave taken by both  
employees is limited to a total of 12 weeks if the leave is taken for the birth or placement of a child  
or to care for a parent with a serious health condition. However, if the leave is taken by either  
spouse to care for the other who is seriously ill and unable to work, ie care for a child with a serious  
health condition, or for his or her own serious illness, then each employee is eligible for 12 weeks  
of leave.  
(d}) Application for An employee requesting family or medical leave must  
complete the “Application for Family or Medical Leave” form (the employee can obtain the form  
the administrative assistarit int  
helt conditions;  
ve"...  
~  
The application for eave: based on. the “seri  
col re of the or. ‘the employee” § Spouse,  
.  
h which ‘the: serious. health. condition. comiienced, 5  
   
2:48 PM  
16/4/20 2:18 PM  
duration of the condition, and the appropriate medical facts regarding the condition. If an  
employee is requesting leave to care for a spouse, child, or parent with a serious health condition,  
-the medical-certifi cation must state-an estimate of the ameunt oftime the employee will  
If the employee has a serious health condition, the certification must state that the  
employee cannot perform the functions of his or her job. The Company will require medical  
certification to be submitted prior to or when an leave begins or within fifteen (15)  
calendar days after the leave starting date. In addition, the Company may require subsequent re-  
certifications on a reasonable basis.  
(h) Notification of Leave Assignments. After receiving notice from the employee  
regarding the need to take family or medical leave, the Company will provide the employee with  
an “Employer Response to FMLA Request.”  
(i) Benefits Coverage During Leave. During a family or medical leave, the employee  
will be retained on the Company’‘s health plan under the sarne conditions that applied before the  
leave began. To continue health coverage, the employee must continue to make any contribution  
that he or she made for group insurance during the leave. Failure of the employee to pay his or  
her share of the health insurance premium may result in the loss of coverage.  
An employee who is granted FMLA leave shall retain and accumulate seniority during  
such leave. An eligible employee will not accrue any right, benefit or position of employment  
other than that which they would have been entitled to had a leave not been taken and such leave  
will not result in the loss of any benefit accrued prior to the date on which the leave began.  
If an employee fails to return to work after the expiration of the leave, the employee may  
be required to reimburse the Company for payment of health insurance premiums during the family  
   
I ay 2 48 PM  
   
i serious. health  
ayes  
‘available, ort to a: position  
a  
er  
medicél leave to report every thirty. (30) on his: of her Status,  
males of ‘medical leave “mist ‘submit his or her: request fc  
### ES  
ye requested extension. ©  
ann  
leave, at the’ discretion of the: ‘Emp  
duration of the medical. leave: Failure to comply  
=  
“ay a leave of  
  
x . ' £  
  
        
2:48 PM  
7:18  
### PM  
and vacation benefits. Employees who are on leave of absence for more than thirty (30) days will  
not receive credit toward scheduled step increases.  
dr ~—srremployee-whotetums-fromrmedical-leave-oF absence-within-sixty-(60)-days-or  
less will be placed in his/her prior job, location, and schedule. If the employee has been on leave  
for more than sixty (60) days, the Company will make every reasonable effort to place said  
employee in the prior job and location.  
(ec) An who fails to return from medical leave of absence, or to seek a release  
to return to work from the medical leave of absence, will be considered to have voluntarily  
terminated.  
SECTION 16.5. Leave for Compensable Injury  
Any employee on medical leave as a result of an on-the-job compensable injury shall retain  
and accumulate seniority during such leave. Upon being released for return to work, if the  
employee has been off sixty (60) days or less or for FMLA qualifying leave, such other period as  
required by that law, he/she will be placed in his/her prior job, location and schedule. If the  
employee has been off for more than sixty (60) days, the Company will make every effort to place  
said employee in the employce’s prior job and location.  
SECTION 16.6. Medical Leaves Exceeding One Year  
Those employees who accumulate time on occupational or non-occupational medical leave  
of absence totaling one (1) year will have their employment with the Company terminated. The  
one-year period is calculated on a cumulative, as opposed to a consecutive basis, as outlined below:  
(a) ‘If an employee returns from medical leave and works less than twenty-six (26)  
consecutive working weeks, and is subsequently returned to medical leave, the employee will  
continue to accrue time toward the one year cut-off described above.  
An‘emnployee who hi sei  
al: ‘information, or. wil ie filed and  
4 at mens . .  
docomenting  
"ae  
“employment as. ‘Jong as medically  
for her particular. work location fea  
=  
  
‘basis and -  
tats  
"a  
“in its’ sole allowing fo continue, workin  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 2:18 PA  
administrative leave for up to one (1) year pending = outcome of civil or criminal charges.  
However, the Company reserves the right to take disciptinary action, up to and including  
based onthe natre-of the allegations andor tthe  
regarding the Disciplinary action taken by the Company shall be subject to the  
grievance proc edure with the exception of probationary terminations.  
   
I 3 48 PM  
afin of this with  
+  
ws  
- to: erisure the consistent and ‘timely willis saclay section of this  
*  
'  
ation, the employe will be. informed ¢ of the  
“action but does ‘not require.  
   
the em 3 employee ding th  
   
2:4 PM  
2:18 PM  
(a) No discipline and.a return to work with full back pay and applicable pension  
contributions; or  
—_————— fb) ~~ Acreprimand-in-aecordance with Section 17-5(a) below and-a to-work-with  
no back pay and applicable pension contributions; or  
(c) Disciplinary suspension in accordance with Section 17.5(b) below; or  
(d) Termination in accordance with Section 17.6 below.  
An employee may be suspended without pay for a period of up to two (2) weeks. The  
parties recognize, however, that the use of a suspension is not a mandatory component of the  
disciplinary progression.  
In circumstances where an investigatory suspension extends beyond two (2) weeks, an  
employee shall be paid on a weekly basis unti] such time that the suspension is concluded and an  
employment decision is administered by the Company.  
SECTION 17. Discipline  
Discipline must be for just cause. In administering discipline, the Company will make  
its determination based on the factors in Section 17.1.  
(a) Reprimands. Reprimands will be issued, in writing, on a specific subject or subjects  
and will be signed by the Supervisor who will present it and discuss it with the employee.  
Reprimands will be presented and discussed within fifteen (15) calendar days after the occurrence,  
or within fifteen (15) days after the immediate supervisor has had a reasonable opportunity to  
become aware of and complete an investigation of the occurrence, whichever is later, unless  
prevented by the absence of the employee or extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the  
Company. An employee will sign the reprimand, not in admission of the offense, but in  
acknowledgment that a copy of the reprimand has been received by the employee. The Company  
shall make copies of written reprimands available to the Union.  
-46-  
2:48 PM  
1844720 PM  
   
   
wet eae  
   
   
ng twelve (12)  
=,  
   
### SECTION I?  
oe  
ising profane language  
    
-Or using pro ual  
   
  
### PM  
‘16/4/20 2:13 PM  
(e) Conviction, plea of guilty, plea of no contest, or acceptance of pre-trial diversion,  
or other similar resolution to a felony or serious misdemeanor, such as but not limited to child  
   
+ ong « wi 0 prio Dials  
   
—abuse;-lewd-and-lascivious behavior, or-sale/distribution-of controlled substances:-—- -  
(f} Violation of operating rules and procedures that may or may not result in physical  
and/or financial damage to Company property or in bodily injury to fellow employees or guests.  
(g) | Gambling, sleeping while on duty, willful insubordination and theft.  
(h) Dishonesty or misconduct that is detrimental to the Company.’  
(ij) Continued violation of the Company appearance guidelines.  
(j} to return from a leave or vacation. .  
(k) Excessive tardiness or absenteeism.  
G) Discrimination/harassment.  
(m) Possession of dangerous or unauthorized materials such as explosives, firearms, or  
other similar items on Company property.  
SECTION 17.7, Absenteeisin and Tardiness Standard:  
In 2015 negotiations, the Union and the Company discussed the unique nature of the  
business and the distinct operational needs that differ from the surrounding Walt Disney World  
operations, Based on those discussions, the parties agreed to the following:  
   
1 While it has never been the position of the Company to Jegistate behavior during off-duty hours, the Company does  
reserve the right to administer appropriate disciplinary action when flagrant actions take place on Company property  
by employees outside their scheduled work hours. It is understood by both parties that in the event of extremely  
serious Infractions of this nature requiring discharge, subsection(s) (f) and/or (h) of the above referenced Article will  
be cited.  
A.  
2:48 PM  
te  
### TD  
.  
Tia ill ye : ne  
  
wil  
hour  
ouint ais  
oné ab  
  
= qd  
id:ghall not count é  
Ae  
   
17/6/14 2:48PM  
16/4/20 2:18PM  
I. Work incurred injuries;  
2. Medical Leaves;  
—— Release of shift-for- medical-reasons> ~  
(d)  
()  
4. Scheduled personal leaves where the Company agrees in advance to the leave as  
mentioned in Article 16.1 above. .  
5. Subsequent consecutive call-ins for the same illness or injury will not count as an  
additional occurrence;  
6. Citizenship Ceremonial Day  
Any twelve (12) month period free from discipline will result in beginning again at the first  
step of progressive discipline.  
All references to time period in this Article refer to continuous work periods specifically,  
excluding any leaves of absence.  
SECTION 17.8. Clock out Standard  
(a) Failure ta Either Clock in or Clock Out:  
l. Beginning with 3 points in any 30 days = reprimand  
2. Beginning with 6 points in any 90 days = reprimand  
3. Beginning with 9 points in any 180 days = reprimand  
d., Beginning with 12 points in any 365 days = reprimand  
(b> = Tracking:  
1. Failure to clock in for the start of shift = 1/2 point  
2. Failure to clock out for the end of shift = 1/2 point  
Failure to clock in and out for same shift * ] point  
4, Failure to clock out for the start of lunch period = 1/2 point  
-50-  
ee ey  
to clock in for the end  
a wo  
steal  
even (7) days’,  
. oy  
ms  
ray am yee  
he  
“references t6 tint  
   
2:48 PM  
“6/4/20 2:18PM  
### RGAE 18 — GRIEVAN CE AND ARBITRATION  
"SECTION 8.4, Grievance Settled According fo Procedure . |  
~The panes o this Agreement agree that eny grievance arising ou of the interpretation-or  
application of the terms of this Agreement, with the exception of terminations and policy  
grievances which will be expedited to Step 3, shall be settled promptly in accordance with the  
following procedures:  
SECTION 18.2. Definitions  
(a). Grievance: A grievance, within the meaning of this procedure, is defined as a  
dispute or difference of opinion between the parties conceming the meaning, interpretation,  
| application or alleged violation by the Company of this Agreement.  
(b) Time Limits: The parties recognize that it is important that grievances be processed  
and resolved as rapidly as possible; therefore, the number of days indicated at each step of the  
grievance procedure should be considered as a maximum, and every effort should be made to  
expedite the process. The time limits specified may be extended by mutual agreement as evidenced  
by a waiver, in writing, signed by an authorized representative of the Company and the Union;  
otherwise, the grievance shall be regarded as withdrawn.  
(c) Recording Devices: The parties agree that no recording devices of any kind shall  
be permitted to be utilized during Steps 1, 2, 3, or 4 of the grievance procedure.  
(d) § Back-pay Awards: The parties agree that any Arbitrator’s award of back pay shall  
be lessened by unemployment compensation or any other compensation received by the grievant  
during the period of termination prior to reinstatement.  
{e} Information Requests: The Company will make every reasonable effort to provide  
any requested, relevant information regarding grievances to the Union within seventy-two (72)  
52-  
sana of his/her U  
wane  
1 (14) al  
ne  
7  
(14) cale saa diss et ‘the has had 2  
iis provided, the grievance may, b  
‘initio Section of dis lak ? dté Have: been Violated. “The grievance & shall -  
3 | Manager; who shall iramediately forward copies to the.  
   
2:48 PM  
16/4/20) 2:18 PM  
Company Representative. The Company Representative and the Union Representative shall meet  
within seven (7) calendar days after invocation of Step 2i in an attempt to settle the grievance. It  
-shall-be-ineumbent-upor the-Business-Representati ve-to-request-such-meeting -Fhe- Company  
Representative shall provide the employee and the Union Representative with a written reply  
within seven (7) calendar days after the parties have met. If the designated Company  
Representative fails to give a written reply within the time limits provided, the grievance may be  
appealed to the next Step of the grievance procedure.  
Step 3  
If the grievance shal} not have been adjusted under Step 2, then within seven (7) calendar  
days from the date of the supervisor’s written decision or a date when the decision should have  
been submitted by the supervisor, the grievance shall be presented in writing to the General  
Manager. The General Manager and the employee’s Union Business Representative shall meet  
within seven (7) calendar days in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The General Manager shall  
provide the Employee and the Union Business Representative with a written reply within seven  
(7) calendar days after the parties have met. If the General Manager fails to give a written reply  
within the time limit provided, the grievance may be appealed to arbitration.  
In conducting the second and third Step meetings, the presence of the Shop Steward and/or  
the grievant may be requested by the Union Representative. Such request will remain the sole  
option of the Union.  
Step 4  
If the grievance shal! have been submitted but not adjusted under Step 3, either party may,  
within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the General Manager's written reply, or a date when  
the written reply should have been submitted by the General Manager, request in writing that the  
  
é shall ‘gove  
rievanee  
io  
ae  
"es  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 2:18 PM  
### ARTICLE 19 — HOLIDAYS  
Part Time employees are not eligible for Holiday Pay. -.  
### ARTICLE 20 —- VACATION  
Part Time employees are not eligible for Vacation Pay.  
### ARTICLE 21 — JURY DUTY/BEREAVEMENT LEAVE  
### SECTION 21.1. Jury Duty without Pay for Regular Part-Time Employees  
All regular part-time employees will be granted time off while serving on jury duty. Time  
off will be unpaid during the duration of his/her service.  
SECTION 21.2, Bereavement Leave  
(a) | Employees bereaved by the death of a member of their immediate family are  
granted time off, without pay, for time necessary to travel to and from the fimeral location and  
attendance at the funeral,  
The deceased must have been a member of the immediate family household, such as  
spouse, child (natural or step), mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law or father-in-law,  
grandparent and grandchild. If a closer than normal relationship existed between the employee  
and a person other than those named, consideration will be given toward the bereavement leave.  
Bereavement leave shal] be granted up to a maximum of five (5) days. An employee will  
be entitled to receive up to three (3) days of unpaid bereavement leave to attend in-state funerals  
and up to five (5) days of unpaid bereavement leave to attend out-of-state funerals. Additional  
unpaid time may be granted where appropriate.  
1 248 PM  
oa”  
be will, nat times, remain the  
a8  
thing or Misuse of Clothing an  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 2:18PM  
the lock on an employee’s locker, An employee who willfully defaces, destroys or misuses &  
company-furnished uniform is subject to disciplinary action, including dismissal.  
   
SECTION 23:5--Personal Appearance Rules in-Writing— -~-  
It is recognized that the Company may make and enforce rules relating to personal  
appearance which must be. set forth in writing and must be reviewed with the Union prior to  
implementation.  
SECTION 273.6. Furnished Clothing Net to be Worn OfF Disney World Premises  
Unless approved or otherwise authorized by the Company, company-furnished clothing is  
not to be worn off Walt Disney World premises outside of the employee’s working hours.  
W7/t/14 2:48 PM  
ans PM  
   
   
may attend  
   
   
   
a ee  
> one joint ‘conimittee: for both. San Angel Inn and Springs F  
se  
a8  
=  
    
   
ive committee membeis within one month of ratification.  
Tee  
. eonilicts between the: Americans with Disabilities Act and |  
  
wm  
7  
   
Wild 2:48PM  
"6/4/20 2:18PM  
(b) Applicants for employment with the Company may be required to undertake a post-  
offer, conditional-employment medical examination. Examinations will be conducted by a  
—-—-——licensed-physician-designated-and-paid for  
(c) Employees may be required by the Company to submit to a medical or  
psychological examination at the Company’s expense in the following situations:  
(1)  
(2)  
(3)  
(4)  
When the Company needs to determine whether an employes is able to  
perform the essential functions of a position with or without  
accommodation and/or whether the employee can perform the essential  
functions ofa position, with or without reasonable accommodation, without  
directly threatening his/her health or safety or that of others;  
When the Company concludes that it must determine whether reasonable  
accommodation is required, or where an employee has requested  
accommodation, including the nature and extent of such accommodation;  
When the Company concludes it must acquire medical advice to determine  
whether a local, state, or federal health or safety standard can be satisfied;  
When the Company is obligated by law to assess, monitor and/or maintain  
a record of an employee’s health status.  
(d) Pursuant to Section 24.4(c)(2} above, the Company reserves the right to require an  
employee to undergo a physical examination by a licensed physician or certified health care  
provider designated by the Company at the request. If the employee disagrees with  
the medical opinion of the Company-designated physician, the employee may select, at his/her  
expense, e physician or appropriate certified health care provider to conduct the Company-required  
medical examination. The result of that examination must be submitted to the Company-  
-60-  
   
el 2 lon Rs mo  
ane  
pay syiyatieq,  
jl by 00  
~ “wi  
HORA 811521199 10:  
nore  
apo]  
Tye  
oF  
   
   
Floren  
2:48 PM  
16/4/20) 2:18 PM  
### ARTICLE 25 —- WORK BY SUPERVISORS  
It is recognized that the duties of a supervisor are, as the implies, largely of a  
en ial nt perfor work rch a= that by  
the as herein defined,  
(a) For emergency purposes.  
(b}) = Inthei instruction and crating of employees or supervisors.  
(c) Work of an nature.  
(d) Testing materials and production.  
(ce) Start-up and closing-down of  
(f) To ‘protect Company and/or to ensure the safety of guests and/or  
employees.  
(g) To provide uninterrupted services in order to ensure a positive guest and/or  
employee experience.  
-62-  
2:48PM |  
### SSECTI  
ering other’  
Thee  
td's  
or unit opetition without an exten  
:  
  
  
we ne oe  
  
ayy  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 2:15 PM  
   
nets  
### ARTICLE 27 — - BULLETIN BOARDS  
The Company shall provide bulletin boards in all areas which are frequented by employees  
for-the-posting-of officin-union-notices ~The boar aba th-glass- end-under lock:  
The key shall remain in the possession of a supervisor. These boartls shail be used for display of  
the following notices: union meetings, union appointments, union elections ud official union  
social affairs and any Company-issued information. It is agreed that no union matter of any kind  
shall be posted in and about the of San Angel Inn or Coronado Springs except on said  
boards. It is agreed by the Union and management that it is the responsibility of each employee to  
be knowledgeable of notices posted. All such union notices shall bear a posting and a removal  
date.  
‘some Work id be sublei  
  
of the Com  
a ne  
{al  
.  
   
2:48 PM  
"16/4/20 2:18 PM  
### ARTICLE 29 —- ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE POLICY  
For purposes of this Agreement, the terms “drug” or “drug tests” shall include both drugs and alcohol, as  
appropriate. The Company and the Union recognize that me many areas of the Company's operations  
hazardous work with ihe potential for personal injury or property damage and that alt areas involve directly  
or indirectly the public at large. Therefore, it must endeavor fo provide safe and efficient perations for the  
protection and benefit of the general public, its customers and its employees. AS part of ts effort achieve  
that goal, It must require that its work be performed by employees who do nat use illegal drugs or + misuse  
controlled substances and/or alcohol as follows:  
SECTION 1; The Company recognizes that employees have a right as privacy and that any adverse action  
taken against any employee for off-duty conduct shal take into account the employee S right to privacy and  
the impact of the employee's conduct on his/her jab the Compary’s reputation, or the public's  
perception of the Company's contract performance. Any disciplinary action for such drug-related conduct  
will be subject to the grievance With ‘Fespect to any alleged off-duty related conduct, the  
arbitrator will be specifically instructed to balance the employee's right to privacy in his/her off-duty time  
with other legitimate job related concerns in weighing the contractual propriaty of disciplinary action.  
SECTION 2. Bargaining unit employees will be subject to drug and alcohol testing under the following  
circumstances,  
(a) Where there Is an objective reasonable basis that an employee has an in-system presence of any  
illegal drug, controlled substance or alcohol, hereinafter referred to as “substances”, while on duty  
or on Company property immediately preceding or following the watt shift. For purposes of this  
Agreement, the terms “employee” or “bargaining unit employee" includes not only persons  
employed in positions covered by the Union, collective bargaining agreement, but also persons  
being recalled into such positions.  
   
10 douse 230  
   
ee  
acc 64 Jo em. Guess {py  
21.2 WA ul  
jun. ‘ajqissod 80 udod su,  
ir.  
Wa aT  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 218 PM  
SECTION 4, Any employee directed for testing shall be advised of his/her right to the presence of a Shop  
steward before any pre-test meetings with Management. Provided a Shop Steward fias been requested  
and is available, no specimen will be collected untit the Shop Steward can discuss the matter with  
Management The Union agrees that the procedures described in Sections 3 and 4 shall not operate ina  
manner that will Impede timely collection of a biological specimen. Refusal to provide a biological specimen  
will result in immediate discharge without an opportunity at a later date to reconsider/retract the refusal.  
SECTION 5. Any employee who tests negative to any drug test under this Agreement (other than follow-up  
tasting te rehabilitation} shall be compensated for all lost time, al the appropriate wage rate. Time lost  
under such circumstances shail be treated as time worked for purposes of premium eligibility.  
SECTION 6. Specimen collection for a drug test will be accomplished in a manner compatible with  
employee dignity and privacy. There will be no stip searches or opposite sex observation, In the usual  
case, the Company will not observe specimen production, but the Union agrees that specimen production  
may be closely monitored in those cases where the Company has a specific objective reason to believe  
that the employee may attempt to contaminate a test specimen. Any evidence of any form of tampering,  
altering, or diluting of a specimen will result in discharge.  
SECTION 7. Test specimens shall be sent only to laboratory facilities certified by an appropriate federal  
or state agency. The drug test laboratory and the specimen collection facility must establish and maintain  
a forensically acceptable chain of custody. It will be the burden of the Company to establish, in any case  
arising from a positive test result, that the appropriate chain of custody has been mainteined.  
lf a dispute should arise over the selection of drug test laboratories, such dispute shalt be resolved by  
arbitration, The laboratory(s) selected must, upon request, identify the drugs tested for, the methods used,  
the manufacturers of the test, the analytical limits and levels used, the methods of reporting results and the  
chain of custody procedures used to produce forensically acceptable test results. To be qualified under this  
2:48 PM  
“OF ai: pea  
rs me “  
oe  
ble Medical Review Officer bik tie ight withhold approval of  
  
adequate’ in  
ae  
he Federal Register, and may be moditied whenever.  
ten notice of the: test. used 4  
a  
. the 5 of of ihe test and the  
   
2:48 PM  
16/4/20 2:15PM  
SECTION 10. The laboratory shall preserve a sufficient aliquat specimen as to permit independent  
   
_____ banfirmatory testing by the employee and follow-up re-analysis at the request of the Union or the Company.  
| Any re-analysis pertonned will be done on the original sample provided. The Medical Review Officer shall  
endeavor to notity the Company and the employee of positive test results within five (5) working days after  
receipt of the spacimen. The employee may request, in writing, a re-analysis within three (3) working days  
from notice of positive test result. Additionally or as an alternative, the employee may have the —  
tested at a certified laboratory of his/her choice. Should this test result be negative, the test results will be  
considered negative.  
SECTION 11, Initial tests and re-analysis requested by the Company will be pald by the Company; costs  
of re-analysis for reconciliation will be split between the employee and the Company. In the event the initial  
test is proven to be a false positive the employee shall be relmbursed for cost of test procedures paid for  
by the employee.  
SECTION 12. The drug test laboratory and the specimen collection facility must establish and malntain a  
forensicaily acceptable chain of custody. It will be the burden of the Company to establish, in any case.  
arising from a positive test result, that the appropriate chain of custody has been maintained.  
SECTION 13. Where employees are required under this policy to submit blood samples for alcohol testing,  
the samples will be taken In an appropriate collection facility. The collection facility and laboratory will use  
the same or equivalent chain of custody procedures and exercise the same or an equivalent level of  
professional care and scientifically accepted standards end procedures in the collection and testing of blood  
samples for the presence of alcohol as with urine samples for the presence of drugs. For the purposes of  
this policy if a test reveals the presence of alcohol at a level of .08% or more by weight, it shall ba presumed  
that the employee has violated this policy. If the test reveals the presence of alcohol in excess of .05'%% by  
weight, but less than .08%, the results of the test will be considered along with all other relevant Information  
(e.g. employee conduct, speech, performance, atc.) in determining whether the employee is in violation of  
  
   
2:48 PM  
els thet urider the influence oi of  
soe  
eg conduc speech, per  
  
4  
! ne shall be dis  
4  
weet,  
“iio where ee  
shy preg tte ene  
The Company shall be responalble for contidertalty oftest records.  
stretly on a “ried to know” basis. “employee  
   
2:48 PM  
‘16/4/20 (2:18 PM  
drug test records shall not be released outside the unless required by administrative action initiated by the  
employee or the Union. The empioyee shall be entitled to written notification of positive drug test results  
Copies of such report wil be provided to the Union when authorized in writing by ihe employes.  
ao en em din a me i ty a sade il  
   
SECTION 16. Except in the case ofa positive random test after referral to the EAP which shall be conclusive  
proof of just cause for termination, when and if t becomes necessary to impose discipline for drug | related  
conduct or job performance, disciptine will be Judged by: the contractual just cause slandard and will be  
subject to the grievance/arbitration procedure. Except to the extent the employee(s) withholds written  
consent as to particular documents personal to him, the Company agrees to provide the Union, in advance,  
with whatever documentation or information the Union reasonably requizes to process the grievance and/or  
arbitration. By establishing this policy, neither the Company. nor the Union waives any legal rights. The  
parties agree that this drug policy shail not diminish the rights of individual employees under state or federal  
law relating to drug testing.  
SECTION 17. The Company shall provide education for Management personne! regarding observation  
techniques, the availablity and desirability of the Employee Assistance Programs and the need for  
observing strict confidentiality. Supervisors will be provided guidelines for maintaining confidentiality of all  
drug-related information and referring employees who may have a problem to appropriate counseling.  
SECTION 18, The Company agrees that it shall indemnify and hold the Union harmless against any and  
all complaints, claims, judgments, or demands that may arise out of, or in any way are related to, the Union's  
negotiation or participation in the foregoing drug policy applicable to bargaining unit employees and  
applicants, or the Company's activities in carrying out this drug testing program.  
72.  
da PN  
2  
4  
248  
+  
0  
4/2  
    
   
ate  
  
ate  
   
   
oe  
ated  
   
2:48 PM  
(20 ¢ 2:18 PM  
### ARTICLE 31 —-SEVERABILITY  
It is not the intent of either party hereto to violate any laws or any rulings or regulations of  
~- urisdiction of the subject matir of this: Agreement  
   
and the parties hereto agree that in the event any Provision of this Agreement is held or constituted  
to be void as being in contravention of any such laws, rulings or regulations, nevertheless, the  
remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, unless the parts so found to be  
void are wholly in separable from the remaining portion of this Agreement.  
4  
aes DAS  
seek My  
  
my  
  
ao:  
   
17/6/14 2:48PM  
16/4/20 2:18 TM  
### ADDENDUM “A”  
### BARGAINING UNIT: COVERED JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY  
~ Non-Fipped  
   
Se rice pee =: eee  
   
   
el i ee 0  
   
   
ee  
   
   
     
     
    
   
    
Effective Effective  
    
    
     
     
    
     
           
             
   
| ‘46/01/2016 10172017 as  
Job Classification | | Min Max  
“ais 30  
wan "ae  
### SRAS SIRE  
Cook |  
Cook 2  
        
Food/Beverage  
00 39.50 314350 7 $15.00  
Tipped Classifications  
   
             
(Jeb Classification 0 | HONG | IT  
[BeverageH/H(T) = sa aS SSS |  
[Food & Bew Assistant(T) ssa S645  
Fond & Bev ss 0 | $5.25  
ee fe el  
   
### NOTES:  
Note 1; Excluded from Bargaining Unit - All other employees, including, but not limited to,  
foreign nationals working under a temporary permit or visa; e.g., “J” or “Q” visa, office clerical  
employees, guards and supervisors, as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, as amended.  
Note 2: Rate adjustments will be effective at the beginning of the first payrol] period following  
the effective dates indicated. Rate adjustments will apply to all employees on the scheduled date;  
i.¢., increases will not be administered on the employee’s hire date anniversary.  
Note 3; Employees, whose scheduled increase in rate of pay will exceed the “Max” amount on  
the applicable "Min/Max” rate schedule will receive, but not exceed, the maximum rate allowed.  
Note 4: Any mistake or error(s) in rates of pay as set forth in this Appendix A will be corrected  
by the Company. |  
Note 5: Ifthe federal minimum wage for a job class is higher than the agreed upon rate, the federal  
minimum wage shall prevail.  
2:48 Ph  
   
+  
i er es  
ar .  
a to, be  
 