Cornell University  
ILR School  
   
BLS Contract Collection — Metadata Header  
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School,  
Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.  
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization  
process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and  
corrections may apply to this document.  
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see  
http://digitalcommons. ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/  
Or contact us:  
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853  
607-254-5370 _ ilrref@cornell.edu  
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -  
http://digitalcommons. ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/2/)  
Title: Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell, SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas, NV, SBC Telecom, Inc. —  
Network Operations, SBC Advanced Solutions Inc., SBC Services, Inc., Pacific Bell  
Information Services Maintenance Notification Group and Pacific Bell Home  
Entertainment and Communications Workers of America (CWA) (2001)  
K#: 5752  
Employer Name: Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell, SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas, NV, SBC  
Telecom, Inc. — Network Operations, SBC Advanced Solutions Inc., SBC Services, Inc.,  
Pacific Bell Information Services Maintenance Notification Group and Pacific Bell Home  
Entertainment  
Location: National  
Union: Communications Workers of America (CWA)  
Local:  
SIC: 4813 NAICS: 517110  
Sector: P Number of Workers: 32000  
Effective Date: 02/05/01 Expiration Date: 04/01/04  
   
Number of Pages: 223 Other Years Available: Y  
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the  
Catherwood website - http://www. ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/  
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www. ilr.cornell.edu/  
— 2001 |  
Contract _  
323 77  
   
Communications  
Workers of America  
   
a  
Pacific Telesis Group  
Pacific Bell  
Nevada Bell  
Advanced Solutions, Inc.  
Pacific Bell Home Entertainment  
Pacific Bell Information Services-MNG  
SBC Services, Inc.  
SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas  
SBC Telecom, Inc. — Network Operations  
    
Effective February 5, 2001  
Expiration Date April 1, 2004  
   
### CONTRACT BETWEEN  
### THE COMPANIES  
### AND  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA  
### TABLE OF CONTENTS  
### PREAMBLE  
### ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION......... FE  
### ARTICLE 2 - FORCE ALLOCATION. uu.  
### 2.01 Employment Security COMMITMENT  
2,02 Employee Career Development  
2.03 Training/Retraining Working COMMITTEES 0...  
2.04 The Automated Upgrade and Transfer System. .......... .  
### 2.05 FORCE] BOIGANCING noone  
2.06 FOTES seis  
2.07 Separation Beneflts....... cre (en fake 4 RU  
### 2.08 REIOCOTION  
2.09 AssiQn Ment Of HEGAQUATTOLS  
ARTICLE 3 - COMPANY-UNION RELATIONS .................00. ces  
### 3.01 GONETAl STOTSMENT  
3.02 Meetings Between Union and Management  
  
### 3.03 Time Off FOr UNIOM ACTIVITIOS  
3.04 Triennial Collective Bargaining Meetings Between  
Union and Management Representatives................  
3.05 Union Activitles on the Companies’ Premises. .............  
3.06 BOOKS cies  
### 3.07 UNMIOM  
3.08 Payroll Deductlon of UNION  
3.09  
3.10 FECSral OF  
### ARTICLE 4 - JOB TITLES AND CLASSIFICATIONS......... 6 babes  
### 4.01 New Job Tifles and Job  
4.02 ASSIQMING spears cami  
4.03 Part Time, Term, Temporary and Occasional!  
  
### ARTICLE 5 - WORK ADMINISTRATION, COMPENSATION AND  
### SPECIAL PAYMENTS  
5.0) Wage Schedules ANd  
§.02 Rellef Differentials  
§.03 Shift  
§.04 Overtime and fia x Gea pg IS Eo  
5,05 ExPense  
### 5.06 STAMADY POY  
5,07 Plan for Employees’ Pensions, Disabllity Benefits  
ANd Death Bene|fits  
   
43  
45  
46  
### ARTICLE & - TIME OFF  
6,01 General Statement aT  
6.02 VOCATION. 9 pail meg ny g  
6.03 da errr rrr  
6.04 Personal Days  
6.05 Civic ANG PEFSONA!  
6.06 TIME Off...  
### ARTICLE 7 - PROBLEM RESOLUTION PROCEDURES tinea  
### 7.01 GONEIGl STATOMONT  
7.02 Request for UNION REPIesantaHON  
7.03 Communication and Problem .  
### 7,04 UNION PIESENTATION  
### 7.05 GHEVANGES  
### 7.06 SHANG INFOMMATION  
### 7.07 COMPGNY POSITION  
7.08 Unresolved Union Presenied Stlevances or Tre  
7.09 Emptoyee Presentation...  
7.10 Arbitration ProCQdure’  
7.1) fue i pve (608455 cone  
7.12 Power of the  
7.13 Arbitrator’s 4 $045 Rid KAN A  
7.14 Effect Of RESOIUTION  
7.15 Expedited Arbitration ‘ies  
7.16 Arbitration Expenses.........  
7.17 LOTS: be sits ee  
7.18 Mediatlon..... © sw wae  
7.19 Dismissals ..........0.  
### ARTICLE 8 - LAYOFFS... eee  
### ARTICLE 9 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND oc  
= ON saves  
   
### APPENDIX A WORKING CONDITIONS  
### Section Al SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA WORKING CONDITIONS  
### AIO}  
Al.02  
A1.03  
A1.04  
A1.05  
A1.06  
Section A2  
2  
+  
### FOR PSF IF  
Network Services  
(except Official Communications Services - Business  
Office and Business Services Operations ISDN/PCO  
except Service Representative Titia only)  
SBC Services, inc.  
e Human Resources  
Corporate Real Estate  
e Information Technology (except Compute:  
Operator Title)  
e Procurement (excep! Administrative Services  
e WNetwork Pianning & Engineering  
Industry Markefs - (Access Operations, Testing  
Technician Title only), (Lecal Operations Center,  
excep! Service Representative Title)  
Network Services Staff  
Public Communications - Operations Only  
S&C Telecom, inc. — Network Operations  
Advanced Solutions, inc. (except Service  
Representative and Order Writer Titles only)  
Titles ANG  
FIOUIS OT cence sansa  
  
Headquarters ANd SpeclftOd LIMMtS  
### AN PrEMIUM  
  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA AND NEVADA WORKING  
### CONDUTIOGNS  
e Network Services  
(except Official Communications Services -  
Business Office and Business Services Operations  
ISDN/PCO excep? Service Representative Title  
only)  
e S$8C Services, inc.  
e Human Resources  
e Corporate Real Estate  
e Information Technology (except Computer  
Operator Title}  
« Procurement (except Administrative Services  
Titles)  
¢ Network Planning & Engineering  
® Industry Markefs - (Access Operotions, Testing  
Technician Title only), (local Operations Center,  
except Service Representative  
e Services Staff  
® Public Communications - Operations Only  
ili  
95  
97  
98  
99  
10]  
102  
A2.01  
A2.02  
A2.03  
A2.04  
A2.05  
Section A3  
Section A4  
S8C inc. - Network Operations  
e S&C Telecom, inc. in las Vegas, NV  
Advanced Solutions, ine. (except Service  
Representative and Order Writer Titles only)  
e Pacific Bell information Services, Maintenance  
Notification Group  
« Paeiltle Telesis Group  
¢ §6External Affairs - Nevada Bell onty  
« Regulatory — Nevada Bell oniy  
Tittes and Applications 49 hd EL DHE he De eee  
### HOUS OF  
Overtime and Premilurnm Payments ......... 49 10604  
Assignment Of  
He  
### WORKING CONDITIONS FORS cares  
* Operator Services only (except Marketing  
Directory Unih  
Titles and Applicatlions.........  
Hours Of WOrk  
Overtime and Sunday Pay Practices .  
pa DOSES pi] oes arena see nen caren  
  
### WORKING CONDITIONS FOR: 20...  
e Network Services  
(Official Communications Services - Business  
Office only and Business Services Operations  
ISDN/PCO Service Representative only)  
« Consumer Markets Group  
¢« Business Communications Services  
e Industry Markets (Access Operations, except  
Testing Technician Tiffe), (Local Operations Center,  
Service Representative Title only)  
e S8&C¢ Services, inc.  
e Procurement (Administrative Services Files)  
e Information Technology (Computer Operator  
Title only)  
« Finance  
e Marketing  
© Advanced Solutions, inc. (Service Representative  
and Order Writer Titles onity)  
Global Markets  
¢ Operator Services (Marketing Directory Unit only)  
¢ Public Communications (except Operations)  
### THIGS ANG y  
### HOUIS Of  
Overtine and Premium Payments ............ bees  
### ASSIQNMENT Of  
pes  
102  
103  
105  
106  
106  
107  
107  
107  
109  
110  
V1  
114  
114  
114  
116  
117  
118  
B7  
82  
82.07  
82.03  
82.04  
82.05  
82.06  
B2.07  
82.08  
82.09  
—  
### APPENDIX 8 - PACIFIC BELL HOME ENTERTAINMENT WORKING CONDITIONS  
### WOFKING CONMGTHONS  
### COMPACT MOCGIHCOHONS  
### 8 LAV OMS  
Appendix ¢ Compensation, fransfer and  
  
### HOUTS OF WOPK  
### OVOITHNG  
  
oo  
  
### HOMO  
### APPENDIX C - COMPENSATION, TRANSFER AND UPGRADES  
cl  
C1.01  
C102  
C1.03  
1.04  
C1 .05  
C1 .06  
C2  
C3  
C3.01  
C4  
C4,01  
C4,02  
C4.03  
C4.04  
cs  
C5.01  
C§.02  
Ccé  
  
March 2007 Senetal INCTEASE  
October 2007 General  
2002 GENGIAl ‘ies  
### ZOOS SONEIAl  
Minimum Wage seeks WER  
### WAGE  
Titles, Wage Schedules, and Pension  
### Bands ESSE EOE ES  
### Wage SCNOGUICS  
Transition to New Wage Schedules From  
superseded Wage schedules..........  
Classification of Exchanges by Area.  
### ZOME  
DONG Financ sens cannes e035 yess ons  
  
;  
Team Performance Award (TPA)  
Team Performance Award - Description .........  
Taam Performance Award - Computations ....  
Pension Table Revisions FE ES  
   
120  
120  
  
27  
722  
123  
  
123  
125  
126  
126  
126  
126  
126  
127  
128  
130  
130  
148  
148  
148  
149  
15]  
152  
152  
156  
158  
C7 Evening, Night and Early Morning Differentials  
cs Wage  
C8.01  
C8.02 Changes of Assignment to a Higher-Rated  
schedule........ KO DANES a Aas  
C8.03 Exceptions to the Limltations in Section C8.02.  
C8.04 Changes of Assignment Between Schedules  
with the Same Top  
C8.05 Changes of Assignment to a Lower-Rated  
Scheduls ........... psig AOD ee  
C8.06  
### AGREEMENT OF  
Vi  
### PAGE  
189  
160  
160  
161  
163  
163  
164  
164  
165  
### MEMORANDA OF AG  
1.  
2:  
3.  
4.  
8.  
9.  
10.  
11,  
12.  
13.  
### INDEX  
### REEMENT  
Documentation  
Early Retirement Benefit ences  
Eliminate Force Freezes, Force Limitations and  
  
Employee Career Development Programs and  
Tralning/Retiaining  
### FLOXTING..  
Monitoring and Productivity Measurements  
### (OPSIato#s SSOVICES)  
Pay Treatment for Medically Restricted  
### EMIDIO VG OS ea  
Principles for Sales Incentive Programs  
Provide for Voluntary Waiving of the Sunday  
PIGS cass  
Relocation Expense  
### SUBDCONTOCHAG  
Supervisory Monitoring - Definition Per CPUC  
Decision ERT  
Supervisory Monitoring - Service  
Representatives PERLE REA EEE HEE Ree  
Vii  
167  
169  
171  
179  
161  
783  
185  
187  
189  
191  
193  
197  
199  
20)  
205  
  
### PREAMBLE  
im  
Pursuant to and In consolidation of the terms agreed to in the Memorandum of  
Agreement executed on February § 2007, this consolidated Contract is signed  
on this 76" day of March, 2001, between PACIFIC BELL/NEVADA BELL. S8C  
Telecom, inc. in Las Vegas, Nevada, SBC Telecom, inc. -— Network Operations,  
SBC Advanced Solutions, inc., SBC Services, ine., Pacific Bell information  
services Maintenance Notification Group, and Pacific Bell Home Entertainment,  
hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Companies,” and the  
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, hereinafter referred to as the “Union.”  
The respective parties to this consolidated Contract do mutually agree and  
covenant as follows:  
### ARTICLE 1  
### RECOGNITION  
Section 1.01 The Companies recognize the Union as the exciusive collective  
bargaining representative for those employees having the o¢ccupationat title  
classifications oufiined in Appendices A and 6B for the collective bargaining  
units described In the Agreement of Recognition.  
Section 1.02 Nothing herein shall be construed as authorizing the inclusion of  
any employes or employees not properly includable in the above described  
bargaining unit, nor shall be construed as a waiver or forbearance on the part  
of the Union of any right to represent any employee or amployees properly  
includable in such bargalning unit as contemplated under the Labor  
Relations Act as now or hereafter amended oF superseded,  
Section 1.03 Additions to, or changes In, recognition as described in the  
Agreement of Recognition may be made by mutual agreement,  
Section 1.04 The Companies recognize the Union or its authorized  
_ fepresentatives as having sole power to execute agreements with the  
Companies In regard to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other  
conditions of employment affecting the employees in the collective bargaining  
untts described in the Agreement of Recognition.  
Section 1.05 The Companies will furnish a copy of the Contract to all  
employees.  
### NOTES  
OOn ona ON —  
### ARTICLE 2  
### FORCE ALLOCATION  
### Section 2.01 EMPLOYMENT SECURITY COMMITMENT  
the Companies’ policy will be to offer ail employees, who continue to meet  
performance standards, employment security through reassignment and  
‘retraining even if thelr present jobs are eliminated. This policy will be maintained  
so long as there Is no change that will materialiy alter any of the Companies’  
Business Plan achievement.  
Employees who utilize personal and/or career development programs designed  
to help them stay abreast of continuing technological and business changes,  
and who exercise fiexibility in accepting new or changed work assignments and  
locations, will be assured employment securslty so jong as there Is no change that  
will materially alter any of fhe Companies’ Business Plan achievement.  
### Section 2.02 EMPLOYEE CAREER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS  
The Employee Career Development Program, developed fointly by the  
Companies and the Union, is designed to provide for the ongoing development  
-of each employee's capability throughout their careers with fhe Companies.  
A. The Program will be governed by the Vice President - Human Resources  
and the CWA Vice President, District 9, or thelr designated representatives,  
as well as three representatives of the Companies and three  
representatives of the Union. This Governance Board will oversee the  
activities of fhe Training/Retralning Working Committees.  
B. The Companies will provide specific. relevant and timely [nformatlion  
regarding existing Job to the Union. This information will be  
based on semi-annual farce forecasts of future force reductions and job  
growth areas created by. but not limited to, major technological changes  
and consolidations. This information will be communicated to the  
appropriate Union and management representatives so that these  
representatives can help employees make decisions about their Individual  
career paths,  
C. The purpose of the Employee Career Development Program is to:  
1, Educate employees about the necessity for, and reality of, change.  
2, Enable an amployee to assess personal knowledge, skills, attributes,  
behaviors and goals.  
why —  
### Section 2.02 EMPLOYEE CAREER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (Continued)  
3. Determine the knowledge, skllis, attributes and behaviors for jobs ond  
build a training and/or careei poth for each participating employees.  
4, Provide individual career and devetopment counseling by trained  
counselors.  
5, Encourage employees to fake control of their careers and seek out  
new career opportunities in sufficient time to take advantage of such  
opportunities.  
é, Emphasize each employee's responsibility to seek out and take  
advantage of these and other career development tools and  
Processes to better ensure thely personal employment secuilty.  
The Governance Boord Identified in Section 2.02A will be responsible for  
integrating and coordinating the activities of the Training/Retialning  
Working Committees into the Employee Career Development Program.  
All Regular Full and Part-time employees with at least one year of service  
wilt be eligible to participate in the Employee Career Development  
Program(s), in the Program(s) shail be voluntary. Time spent  
by employess. in Program activities will normally be outside of scheduled  
working hours, Such time will not be paid and will not be considered as  
time worked for any purpose.  
### Section 2.03 TRAINING/RETRAINING WORKING COMMITTEES  
A.  
The Tralning/Retraining Working Committees shall consist of equal numbers  
of Company and Union representatives.  
The functions of the Tralning/Retraining Working Committees area to:  
1, Develop programs which offer additlonal training opportunitias to  
employees which will allow them to attain new skills and pursues  
different career paths.  
2. Propose those programs to the Governance Board for approval of  
appropriate expenditure of the Tralning/Retraining funding.  
3. Administer the programs and report on at least a quarterly basis to  
the Governance Board.  
The provisions of Sectlons 2.02 and 2.03 do not in any way affect the’  
ght to Implement the provisions of Article 2, Section 2.05,  
Section 2.06 of Article 6.  
### No—-O CON OOA  
### Section 2.04 THE AUTOMATED UPGRADE AND TRANSFER SYSTEM  
   
The Companies and the Union that the Companies will replace the  
Upgrade and Transfer Plan with an transfer plan that sholl provide  
placement opportunities for Regular employees. This Ptan, called the  
Automated Upgrade and Transfer System (AUTS), will enable Regular employees  
to move to new job titles and work tocations. Such moves not only benefit the  
Companies, out also benefit employees by allowing them to influence the  
direction of their Incividual careers,  
A. Regular Transfers  
1. Participation in the AUTS shall require employees to verify, supply and  
update personnel data retative to work experience, testing,  
education and training. This information shall be the basis of each  
employee's resume maintained in the AUTS database.  
2. Information regarding job openings will be made available to  
employees on an automated basis by the Companies. Such  
information will also be available to the Union Locals.  
Js qualifled employees seeking placement can submit transfer  
requests for open positions and for future openings.  
Employees may have up to six (4) transfer requests at any one time.  
These may be upgrade, lateral or downgrade transfer requests and  
they may be for future or current vacancies. Each transfer request  
will designate a specific title and exchange (See Appendix C4).  
a. Employees will fraceive reports regarding the activity  
to their transfer requests every four (4) to six (6) weeks.  
4, A vacancy will be listed for ao minimum of five (5) business days,  
during which time ellgible employees may submit transfer requests for  
the positlon.  
5, The employee will have two (2) work days to accept or reject a Job  
offer. Once a job offer has been made, al! othe: transfer requests will  
be put on hold until the job offer has been accepted or deciined.  
é. An employee's transfer request will be in the active file  
and/or considered for current open positions if the employee has met  
the prerequisites of satisfactory job performance, time-in-titie and  
time-In-locatlon (as Indicated In Appendix C2), testing and other job  
requirements as determined by the Companies and indicated on the  
appropriate job brief.  
a. Least senlor identifled surplus employees (Section and  
employees placed under the provisions of Sectlon 2.05 (Force  
Balancing) and Section 2.06 (Force Movement) of this Article  
will not be required to meet time-in-title and time-in-location  
requirements in to submit transfer requests following such  
identification and/or placement.  
47  
49  
51  
D2  
53  
54  
57  
&) G AD AD AJ BAO AI AD RD AO ORD ORD owe me es et a  
  
B.  
### Section 2.04 AUTOMATED UPGRADE AND TRANSFER SYSTEM (Continued)  
b. If an employee refuses a job offer which matches a request,  
then that request will be cancelled; and It, or any other request  
that would include the same title and exchange, may not be  
resubmitted for a period of six (6) months from the date of  
refusal. When an employee accepts a job offer, ali other  
transfer requests on fite will ba cancelled.  
Gi. Transfers submitted to AUTS for current positions expire thirty (30)  
calendar days after receipt of a job match list or upon selection  
of a candidate for the vacancy, whichever occurs first.  
Transfers submitted for future positions will remain in file for six  
(6) months from the date of receipt, but will be cancelled upon  
the occurrence of any of the following:  
1. the employee no longer meets eligibility or qualifications  
requirements.  
2. The employee withdraws the request.  
3. Tne empioyse leaves the Company payroll.  
4 The employee is no longer ao Regular employee.  
d. Transfers wili remain In file, but on inactive status, if any of the  
following are In excess of thirty (30) calendar days: leaves of  
obsence; temporary promotions te management and  
disabititles.  
a. Eligible employees not test qualified for positions being sought  
through AUTS will be provided the opportunity to take such  
test(s) in the same order of consideration applicable fo filllng Job  
vacancies under Section 2.0481, subject to the avoaitability of  
testing resources and the job vacancy rate for the positions  
being sought. Within each step In the sequence of search.  
employees will be tested in seniority order.  
Selection  
1.  
When the Companies declare a vacancy, the Companles may on  
the raquisition up to ten (10) skills taken from the Job brief. These skills  
are in addition to the prerequisites described In Section 2.04A6.  
Employees will be selected by the skills listed on the requisitlon, Skills  
are based on the employees’ work experlence, training and  
education and are listed in thelr resumes. The Companles may, at  
thelr discretion, interview employees on job match Iists to cantirm  
their skills. When two (2) of moie employees hove equal skills related  
to the vacancy, seniority will determine the choice. The normal  
sequence of search to filla vacancy will be:  
a, Qualified employees in the Available Employes File consisting of  
personnel returning from medical disabillty, milltary, care of  
newborn children, care of immediate family, Union leaves of  
absence, qualified medically restricted employees and surplus  
employees;  
45  
46  
47  
49  
51  
52  
53  
55  
57  
© & & @ & & & Se wee wee  
### Section 2.04 AUTOMATED UPGRADE AND TRANSFER SYSTEM (Continued)  
b. Reassigned employees as referenced In Section 2.06B10 and lald  
off employees as referenced in Article 8:  
Cc. Employees requesting changes of job titles and/or locations:  
d. New hires.  
In applying the provisions of Sections 2.04Bla through 2,.04BIc,  
Nevada employees will be considered for Nevada pasitions for which  
they are qualified before such opportunities are made available to  
Pacific employees. Pacific employees will likewise receive  
consideration for Pacific positions before such opportunities are made  
avallable to Nevada employees.  
‘ Emptoyees and new hires in Section 2.04Bic through 2.04B1d may be  
considered When two (2) or more individuals are  
equally quatified. seniority will determine the choice.  
Notwithstanding Sections 2.0481 through 2.0483, VP entities may  
reserve up to 50% of their vacanctes by title for intra VP entity  
moavement. Those vacancies identifled for intra VP entity movement  
will be made available to qualified employees within the same VP  
entity before such opportunities are made avaitable to employees  
from other VP entities. Intra VP entity selection will be determined by  
skills and seniority as described In Section A VP entity will not  
have more thon 50% of its vacancies reserved on a title by title basis  
at any point In time.  
The Companies reseive the right to refuse transfers and may initiate  
transfers as they deem necessary.  
Cc. Retreats  
1.  
A Regular employee who has accepted a new job assignment, which  
is an upgrade under this Section 2.04, may elect to retreat to the  
previous within the six months after the date of  
transfer, except as specifled in Sectlon 2.05C and 2.06B10. The  
employee will be reassigned to the previous job or a comparable job  
within a commutable distance from that previous job as a vacancy  
becomes available.  
The recelving department may elect to retreat an employee within  
the first six (6) months after the date of transfer except as specified in  
Section 2.05C and 2.06810.  
For both employee and Company initiated retreats, the first six (6)  
months may be extended for formal classroom training. leaves of  
absence, or disability,  
### OOn OME —  
### Section 2.04 AUTOMATED UPGRADE AND TRANSFER SYSTEM (Continued)  
D. Joint AUTS Review Committee  
1.  
The Companies and the Union will establish a Joint AUTS Review  
Committee camprtised of two (2) Union representatives and two (2)  
representatives of the The responsibilities of the  
Committee will include:  
Q. Assisting the Companies In providing for an orderly and efficient  
transition to AUTS:;  
b. the ongoing operation of AUTS:  
Cc. Analyzing overall AUTS results:  
d. Addressing concerns raised as to the staffing of positions  
through AUTS.  
The Joint Review Committee wil mest on o regular basis, but not less  
than once each quarter.  
The Joint Review Committee is nof empowered to enter into  
agreements modifying the Contract, employees’ wages. benefits (or  
other forms of compensation), job titles or representation status.  
Agreements made by the Joint Review Committee will not prejudice  
the position of either the Companies or the Union and will not be  
cited in any other proceeding. Such agreements will not be subject  
to the grievance and arbitration procedures.  
Individual placement decisions made pursuant to the AUTS shall be  
subject to the gilevance procedure. Issues not resolved in the  
grievance proceduis may be presented to the Joint AUTS Review  
Committee for final and binding resolution. Neither the AUTS nor its  
administration shall be subject to  
E. Mini-Transfers  
The minl-transfer procedure is completely separate from the process  
described In Section 2.04A. The mini-transfer process is administered by  
local management without the Involvement of fhe Placement organization.  
Local management will consider mini-transfer requests before Iissulng a  
requisition. Time-in-title and time-in-location ls accrued for employees who  
change their shift, location or status due to a mini-transfer.  
### Section 2.04 AUTOMATED UPGRADE AND TRANSFER SYSTEM (Continued)  
Is  
   
‘Reguiar employees (except for Operator Services employees listed in  
Appendix A, Section A3.01A) may submit local requests to change  
thelr shifts (day, evening or night) within thelr title and thelr building  
locations of other organizational units as determined by the  
Companies and the Union. If there are no written requests on file, the  
available qualified employees within the building of organizational  
unit as determined by the Companies and the Union will be offered  
the vacancy.  
Reguiar employees may submit local requests to change thelr work  
locations within their same titles. Requests for change In work  
locations will be to different bulldings, or to different organizational  
units within the same district.  
Regular employees may submit local requests to change their status  
from full-time to part-time or fiom part-time to full-time. Requests for  
change In status will be withln the employee's tittle and thelr building  
locations of other organizational units as determined by the  
Companies and the Union.  
When a vacancy occurs, the Companies will review requests from  
available qualifled employees. Employees will be considered in order  
of seniornty. The normal sequence of search feo filla vacancy will be:  
Ga. Employees requesting change of snifis under Section 2.04E1;  
b.  Emptoyees requesting change of locations under Section 2,04E2:  
Cc, Employees requesting change of status under Section 2.04E3.  
The qualifications and availabilty of employees for the purpose of  
administering this Section 2,04E will be determined by the Companies.  
### Section 2.05 FORCE BALANCING  
Whenever any conditions. including economic oar force conditions of  
technoiogical change (defined as changes in equipment or methods of  
operations), are considered by the Companies to warrant relocation of existing  
work and/or reanangement of employees, Regular employees may be  
reassigned. Prior to such reassignment(s), management will inform the affected  
Union Local(s) of the proposed move(s). The parties will then discuss the need  
for such reassignment and may explore possible alternatives. If the parties do  
not agree. the Companies will administer the reassignment of Regular  
employees.  
If the reassignment of Regular employees is deemed necessary by. the  
Companies, the following provisions will apply:  
A. Relocation of Existing Work  
l, In applylng the provisions of Sectlon 2.05A, the affected work group  
will be considered to be an cdministrative work unlf. An administrative  
work unlt is as those employees who have the same title  
classification and who perform simitar work, as determined by the  
Compoanles, and share a common overtime list and vacation  
schedule or, If not sharing both the same overtime tist and vacation  
schedule, sharing elther the same overtime list or vacation schedule.  
whichever Iist or schedule is smaller. 7 7  
2. When only a portion of the work performed within an administrative  
work unlf is fo be relocated, employees will be offered the  
opportunity to follow the relocated work based on net credited  
service as shown by the records of the Companies.  
3. If the amount of work to be relocated equates to less than one full  
employee's woik, the Companies, at thelr discretion, may allow an  
employee to fotlow that portion of relocated work.  
4, lf the relocation of existing work Involves o move for an employee  
which is considered commutable, the employee will follow the work  
fo the new tocation. Commutable employees who refuse  
reassignment under the provisions of this Section and Jeast senior  
commutable employees who refuse jfeassignment under Section  
2.05B will be considered to have voluntarily resigned and will not be  
entitied to Separation Benefits.  
5. if the relocation of existing work is to a non-commutable location, tne  
employee may elect to either follow the relocated work or be  
[dentiflad as susplus. In the latter case, the employee will be  
administered to the provisions of Article 2, 2.06.  
oon Wh —  
B.  
Section 2.05  
### FORCE BALANCING (Continued)  
Force Rearrangements an -  
i,  
In an attempt to avoid the declaration of surplus, or to batance the  
force, the Companies may rearrange employees in the same title.  
consolidated headquarters (Section 2.09B) and Vice Presidentiai  
entity. The Companies will determine the appropriate work group s)  
within the title, consolidated -headquarters and VP enilty for  
administration of the force rearrangement(s). There is no requirement  
to use any of the force rearrangement procedures prior to declaiing  
Q surplus.  
Prior to a force rearrangement, the Companies will Inform the  
affected Union Local(s} of the proposed move(s}. Those Union  
Local(s} and the Companies will discuss ihe need for the force  
rearrangement(s}. possible alternatives and whether any “additional  
vacancies," as described in Section 2.05B5, will be offered. The Union  
Local(s}) and the Companies will meet and discuss these issues In a  
timely manner, If there is no agreement between the Union Local(s)  
and the Companies, the will administer the force  
rearrangement({s). '  
Employees having mini-transfer requests on flle (see Section 2.04E) as  
of the date management determines that reassignments are  
warranted will be given consideration for available jobs in the same  
district or Placement Area, whichever ls smatier.  
The least senior qualified surplus employees In the affected work  
group ("affected employees’) will be offered the available jobs In  
their same title. consolidated headquarters and VP enftlfy. By  
seniorlty, the affected employees may elect to take such vacancies  
or replace the least senior employee with the same fitle within the  
same consolidated headquarters and within the same VP entity who is  
outside the affected work group. This process will continue until all  
available vacancies in the title, consolidated headquarters and VP  
entity are filled.  
a. lf the most senior of the affected employee(s) elects not to  
replace the least senior employee in the title, consolldated  
headquarters and VP entity, then the most senior of the affected  
employee(s) wil be assigned to a vacancy.  
b. If the most senior of the affected employee(s) selects to replace  
the least senlor employee in the title. consolidated headquarters  
and VP entity, then the replaced employee will ba held out of  
the process until all the affected employee(s) who have more  
seniority than the replaced employee(s) have the oppartunity to  
either raplace the remaining least senior employee(s) in the title,  
consolidated headquarters and VP entity or be assigned fo a  
vacancy. If there are no remalning affected employees with  
more senioity than a replaced employee(s), the replaced  
employee(s) will be assigned fio a vacancy, if available.  
### LS  
5/  
### Section 2.05 FORCE BALANCING  
5. lf the Companies and the affected Union Local(s) agree during their  
advance discussions, the affected employees may also be offered  
any or all of the following types of available Jobs In their VP entity  
(‘additional vacancies"):  
. same title which are outside the consolidated headquarters:  
. same wage schedule within the consolidated headquarters;  
and same wage schedule which are outside the consolidated  
headquanteis.  
If any such additional vacancles are made available to the affected  
employees, the same process descilbed in Sections 2,05B4a  
and 2,05B4b will be followed. That is, by senlority, the affected  
employees may slect to take an offered vacancy, Including an  
additional vacancy, or replace the least senior employee with the  
same title within the same consolidated headquaiters and within the  
same VP entity who is outside the work group. This process will  
continue untill all offered vacancies, including additional vacancles,  
are filled.  
6. Employees who choose not to accept a commutablie assignment will  
leave the service of the Companies. Employees who choose not to  
-accept a non-commutable assignment will leave the service of the  
Companies and teceive Separation Benefits,  
7. Employees who accept a non-commutabie assignment under Section  
will be entitled to relocation expense reimbursement. Such  
employees will also be entitled to submit requests through  
the Automated Upgrade and Transfer System for six (6) months fram  
the effective date of their assignment. If an employee had the option  
of accepting a commutable job (other than replacing the least senior  
empioyee with the same title within the same consolidated  
headquarters and VP entity), but elected a non-commutable Job, the  
employes will not receive ralocation expense reimbursement and will  
not be éligible to submit unilmited requests through the Automated  
Upgrade and Transfer System for the six (6)-month period.  
8, The Companies will inform the affected Union Local(s) of the results of  
a force rearrangement no later than thirty (30) calendas days after  
the effective date. The results will Include the effective date of the  
force rearrangement, involved work locations and the name, title and  
net credited service (NCS) date of each involved employee.  
There are no retreat rights for employees reassigned under the provisions of  
section 2.05.  
As used In this Section 2.05 and Sectlon 2.06, the term "qualified” refers to  
empioyees who have met the basic requirements of the job, including oll  
tests, requirements and physical as stated in the Jods  
Handbook.  
  
### A  
section 2.06 FORCE MOVEMENT  
Prior to a declaration of surplus, the Companies will implement any or all of  
the following steps:  
1.  
2.  
3.  
Maintain overtime ata minimum ievel within the surplus work group.  
Terminate femporary, ferm and Occasional emptoyees, if  
appropriate, where the Companles determine that surplus employees  
are qualified to perform the work.  
Stop hiring In the surplus title within the surplus work group.  
Force Movement Process  
}.  
The Vice Presidential entity (or highest ievel entity below Officer level)  
will notify the affected Union Local(s), the Executive Director-Labor  
Relations and the surplus work group fourteen (14) calendar days prior  
to the surpius declaration date. Labor Relations will notify the  
National Union In writing of o declaration of surplus.  
qa. <A work group is defined as one containing Reguiar  
with the same job titie in a specific consolidated headquartels  
(see Section 2.098) within a Company Vice Presidential entity. In  
Company arganizations without a Vice Presidential tevel of  
management, a work group will consist of Regular  
with the same job title in a specific consolidated headquarters  
within the highest level entity below Officer level.  
b. Surplus employees are the least senior employees in ao surplus  
work group.  
Liaison Committees comprised of Company and Union representatives  
will be established (one for Northern Colifornia and Nevada and one  
for Southern California) to function In an oversight role regarding  
problems encountered during the placement of surplus employees.  
The membership of each Llalson Committee will be compiised of one  
representative from CWA Disittict 9, one representative from the  
affected CWA Local and one each from Labar Relations, the  
affected Company depattment and the Placement organization.  
These committees are empowered to resolve any issues or problems  
ragarding the placement of employees under the Force Movement  
process described In Sections 2.06B and 2.06C.  
aq. The Liaison Committees are not empowered to enter into  
agreements modifying the Contract, with respect fo employes's  
wages, benefits (or other forms of compensation), job titles or  
representation status.  
AP AD AD AD es i es cs a a  
  
4?  
48  
49  
31  
52  
54  
55  
57  
Section 2.06 FORCE MOVEMENT (Continued)  
b, Agreements made by the Liaison Committees regarding the  
placement of surplus employees will not prejudice the  
position of either the Companies or the Union and will not be  
cited in any other proceeding. Such agreements will not be  
' subject to the grievance and arbitration  
¢. Unresolved Issues of problems regarding the placement of  
surplus employees will not delay or defer the Force Movement  
process, In the event the Llailson Committee Is unable to  
resolve a problem within 30 days, the issue(s) may then be  
addressed under the grievance and arbitration provisions of this  
Contract. To ensure timely resolution of grievances regarding  
the placement of surplus employees. such grlevances will bypass  
Step 1 and Step 2 of the grlevance process and be forwarded to  
the National Union Representative and Labor Relatlons Director  
with a summary of facts and the positions of each party  
prepared by ihe appropiiaie Liaison Committee,  
d. The Liaison Committees wilt discuss temporary and term positions  
that would be appropriate for consideration for surplus work  
groups, These committess are empowered fo recommend  
placement.options to-the.appropilate Company organizations in.  
an effort to rellave the surplus.  
When a work group is notified of a surplus declaration, the  
will offer Separation Benefits, as described in Section 2.07, the Specia!  
Leave of Absence and the Transition Leave of Absence to  
within the surplus work group, within the first ten (10) calendar days of  
the notice petiod. Employees may elect to leave the service of the  
Companies and recelve Separation Benefits or one of the above  
referenced leaves to the extent necessary to relleve the surplus.  
Declaration of surplus shall not be made mote frequently than once  
every three (3) calendar months for each specific work group.  
Once surplus has been declared to the Union, all activities under  
Section 2.05B will cease for the surplus work gfoup(s).  
All Regular employees within a surplus work group will be given priority  
consideration for all avallable lateral (same wage schedule} and  
downgrade Jobs, except jobs that are represented by other unions,  
beginning on the surplus declaration date (see Sectlon  
However, surplus employees represented by CWA will not be offered  
jobs in the non-represented unit if a declared surplus exists  
in that non-represented unit and will not be given  
consideration for those Jobs If a surplus condition exists in another  
bargaining unit.  
co Ww cw & GW w AD AI AD DO PO PO HO ND esa eS eS eS SS SS et C=  
Section 2.06  
### FORCE MOVEMENT (Continued)  
All Regular employees in the surplus work group who wish to  
volunteer for the loteral and downgrade Jobs may  
submit unlimited requests for current and future jobs through the  
Automated Upgrade and Transfer system beginning on the  
surplus declaration date.  
Quailfied employees whe have submitted transfer requests  
pursuant to Section 2.06B6 will be motched to jobs by  
Empioyees will have two (2) work days to accept or decline a  
lob offer. Employees in a surplus work group who choose not to  
accept an offer for a position far which they had submitted In  
accordance with Section 2.06846 will leave the service of the  
Companies.  
Employees who accept jobs outside the CWA bargalning unit  
will assume the representation status of those jobs.  
The Placement Areas for employees covered by this Contract  
are:  
1, For California employees:  
Bay Los Angeles  
North Coast Orange/Riverside  
sacramento/North San Diego/Imperial  
Vailey Centrat Coast  
2. For Nevada employees:  
The State of Nevada  
The Rearrangement Areas for employees covered by this  
Contract are:  
1, Southern California from the Tehachapi mountains ta the  
Mexican Border for employees working In Southern  
California.  
2, Northern California from the Tehachap!t mountains to the  
Oregon border for employees working In Northern  
Callfornia,  
3. Nevada for employees working In Nevada.  
15  
  
7.  
Section 2.06 FORCE MOVEMENT (Continued)  
If the procedures described in Sections 2.04683 through 2.0686 have  
not resolved a declared surplus at the conclusion of thirty (30)  
calendar days including the date of the declaration, the remaining  
least senior identified surplus employees in the work group will be  
offered the Voiuntary Reduction Option (VSRO) as described  
In Section 2.07K. Employees may elect the VSRO or elect to be  
assigned to avallable Regular positions {i.e., lateral,  
downgrade, commutabie, non-commutabte} within the CWA  
bargalning unit. Regular employees In the surplus work group may  
also continue to volunteer for loteral and downgrade positions as  
described in Section 2.06B60 until the Companles determine that the  
surplus is resolved in their work group.  
qa. The Voluntary Surplus Reduction Option (VSRO) inciudes  
Separation as described in Section 2.07. an addltianal  
$3,000 and twelve (12) months unlimited access to AUTS with  
selection status the same as that of employees requesting  
changes of job titles and/or locations (see Section 2.04B1¢).  
b. Least senior Identified surplus employees will have five (5)  
calendar doys within which fo make thelr election between  
VSRO_or assignment. ..  
—_ ~ . -  
Cc. Quatified least senior identified surplus employees who decline  
VSRO of who do not make any election within the five (5)  
calendar days will be assigned to available positions.  
d. The order of selection will be:  
1, by seniority, qualified volunteers In the surplus work group:  
2. qualifled least senior identified surplus employses who  
remain surplus after the 30 day voluntary phase  
described In 2.06B6.  
e. least senior identified surplus employees will be  
assigned In the following order:  
© lateral jobs within the Placement Area by seniority:  
° downgrade jobs within the Placement Area by seniority;  
tateral jobs within the Rearrangement Area by inverse  
seniority:  
° downgrdde |Jobs within the Rearrangement Area by Inverse  
seniority:  
e lateral jobs within for employees of fhe  
Companies in Catifornia by Inverse seniority;  
downgrade |obs within Catifornia for employees of fhe  
Companies in Caiffornia by inverse seniority.  
16  
SB wh —  
Section 2.06  
Ts  
### FORCE MOVEMENT (Continued)  
— _—  
lf the Companies deem appropriate, certain qualifications may  
be waived under the provisions of this Section 2.0487.  
Employees who choose not to accept an offer for a job which is  
a commutabie lateral position will leave the service of the  
Companies. Employees who choose not to accept an offer for  
a job which is a downgrade and/or non-commutable position  
will leave the service of the Companies and receive Separation  
Benefits and twelve (12) months unlimited access to AUTS with  
selection status the same as that of employees requesting  
changes of job titles and/or (see Section  
Those employees placed through the force movement process will  
have Return Rights for up to 24 months from the effective date of  
thelr assignment.  
Q.  
Those employees with Return Rights will have up to 24 months  
unlimited access to AUTS for any regular position.  
Those employees with Return Rights will have concurrent  
consideration with candidates described in Sectlons 2.048lc  
and 2.04B1d and priority selection status if equally qualified with  
the most qualified candidate of those described in Sections  
2.04B1¢ and 2.04B1d.  
Return Rights will cease when an employee Is placed In a  
postition through AUTS prior to the expiration of the 24 month  
period.  
Notwithstanding any other provisions in the contract, employees  
with Return Rights who accept positions through AUTS will not be  
entitied to Relocation Expense reimbursement.  
   
Section 2.06 FORCE MOVEMENT (Contlinueg)  
9, Employees who accept downgrade positions under Section 2.06 will  
be entitied to Reassignment Pay Protection Plan Benefits as described  
below: .  
### LESS THAN 15 YEARS OF  
### NET CREDIT SERVICE  
### WEEKS WAGE REDUCTION  
1 through 52 None  
53 through §7 1/3  
58 through 62 2/3  
63 & thereafter Full  
### 15 OR MORE YEARS OF  
### NET CREDITED SERVICE  
### WEEKS WAGE REDUCTION  
1 through 1460 None  
16] through 164 V/3  
165 through 168 2/3  
169 & thereafter Full  
10. _There are no retreat tights for employees placed into avaitable jobs  
under the provisions of Section 2.06. However, employees who fail  
formal tralning after such placement will be returned to thelr former  
organizations, will be placed back into the force movement process  
and will be assigned to a full-time (lateral/downgrads)  
positlon as described in Section 2.0687.  
11. The Companies may engage in selective hiting during the Force  
Movement Process.  
If no Regular Jobs are available, the remaining surplus employees will be  
offered the opportunity to elthe: replace certain commutable contract  
labor if appropriate, or to leave the service of the Companies and recelve  
Separation Benefits. Surplus amployees who fall to make o cholce relative  
to availabie contract jobs will leave the service of the Companies and  
receive Separation Benefits.  
employees who replace contract labor will be entitled to  
Reassignment Pay Protection Plan Benefits as described in Section  
For purposes of determining the appropriate wage reduction,  
the competitive wage rate (prevailing rate for the contract job minus  
the value. of Company-paid benefits) will be considered the wage  
tate of tha contiact job. Assignments involving the replacement of  
contract tabor will be considered temporary until a Regular job is  
avallable.  
Section 2.06 FORCE MOVEMENT (Continued)  
-  
qa, Emptoyees in temporary contract jobs will be automatically  
matched in order of seniority to Regular lateral or downgrade  
Jobs as positlons become available. Employees may express  
their preferences for reassignment by submitting transfer  
requests through the Automated Upgrade and Transfer System.  
They may designate any lateral of downgrade job titles as the  
job titles In which they wish to be placed should vacancies  
occu.  
b, Employees in temporary contract jobs who choose not to  
accept an offer of a Regular job will leave the service of the  
Companies.  
At any time during the force movement process, if the Companles  
determine that surplus has been resalved In a work group, the Companies  
may rearrange the force as described tn Section 2.05B. ~  
In the event that no commutable contract jobs are offered to surplus  
amployees, the surplus will be malntained untli such time as a  
Regular lateral or downgrade job may be offered, or until the Companles  
Inform the National Union in wilting of thelr intent to lay off Regular  
employees.  
1. Maintalned surplus employees who choose not to accept a  
commutable !ateral job offer will leave the service of the Companies.  
Maintained surplus employees who choose not to accept a  
downgrade or a non-commutabie job offer will leave the service of  
the Campanies ond receive Separation Benefits.  
2, Maintained surplus employees may, at the Companies' discretion, be  
placed Into commutable part-time jobs, if such jobs are available.  
Surplus employees who choose not to accept an offer of a  
commutable job will leave the service of the Companies  
and receive Separation Benefits.  
Managels may be reassigned to the bargaining unit utilizing sither of the  
following provisions:  
1. Management employees may be reassigned to the bargaining unit  
provided there are no. significantly qualified employees (i.e.,  
employees who perform simitar work, as determined by the  
Companies) with greater seniority avallable to fill the - vacancy with a  
transfer request on file for the positton to which the manager would  
be assigned.  
2. An administrativa addition may be created, whereby the  
management employes may be reassigned to the work group.  
3. If a manager (who has been a manager for six (6) continuous months  
or more immediately prior ta the reassignment) is reassigned to the  
bargaining unit, surptus shall not be declared in that work group for  
six (6) Months or until the force level is reduced to the level which  
existed in that work group prior to the reassignment of the manager,  
whichever occurs  
19  
oO —  
—  
Nn  
Section 2.07 SEPARATION BENEFITS (For Pacific Beif Home Enferfainment, see  
Append!x 8, Section 82.01)  
A.  
If during the term of this agreement, the Companles notify the National  
Union In writing that o surplus condition exists for any reason that will  
necessitate the reassignment of Regular employees, and the Companies  
deem it appropriate, the Companies may offer Separation Benefits In such  
job titles and such work locations as the Campanles determine to be  
appropriate. If the Companles elect to so offer, Regular employees may  
elect, in order of seniority, to leave the service of the Companies and  
receive Separation Benefits subject to the following  
1, The Companies will determine the job titles and work locations in  
which the surplus exists, the number of employees in such titles and  
work locations who are considered to be surplus and the perlod  
during which the employee may. if he or she so elects, leave the  
service of the Companles. None of the determinations by the  
Companles nor any part of this Section 2.07 will be subject to  
arbitration.  
2. The number of employees who elect to leave the service of the  
Companies and receive Separation Benefits shall not exceed the  
number of employees determined by the Companies to be surplus.  
3. An employee's election to leave the service of the Companies and  
receive Separation Benefits must be In writing and transmitted to the  
Companies within ten (10) calendar days inctuding the date of the  
offer. The employee may designate on the election form that the  
election is to be effective and irrevocable Immediately. If the  
employee does not so designate, such election may not be revoked  
ofter the ten (10) calendar day period.  
lf the Companles deem it appropriate, they may elect to offer Separation  
Benefits to selected titles in a work group (see Sectlon 2.06B1a) as a force  
management tool. The Companies will notify the Natlonal Union tn writing  
when any such offer Is made. The Companies also will, In advance of  
making this offer to employees, discuss the matter with the affected Union  
Local(s). After this discussion, If the Companies elect to so offer, Regular  
empioyees may elect, in order of seniority, to leave the service of the  
Companles and receive Separation Benefits subject to the following  
conditions:  
1. The Companies will determine the job titles and the work locations for  
which the offer ls to be made, the number of employees who may  
accept the offer and the period durlng which the employees may, if  
they so elect, leave the service of the Companles. None of the  
determinations of the Companies nor any part of thls Section 2.07 will  
be subject to arbitration.  
20  
Sectlon 2.07  
D,  
   
2.  
### SEPARATION BENEFITS (Continued)  
The number of employees who elect to leave the service of the  
Companies and receive Separation Benefits shall not exceed the  
number of employees identified by the Companies on the date of the  
offer to be appropriate.  
An employee's election to leave the service of the Companies and  
raceive Separation Benefits must be In writing and transmitted to the  
Companies within ten (10} calendar days including the date of the  
offer. The employee may designate on the election form that the  
election Is to be effective and Inevocable immediately, if the  
employee does not so designate, such election may not be revoked  
after the ten (10) calendar day period.  
Employees who to leave the service of the Companies and receive  
Separation Benefiis will receive payments based on the employee's net  
credited service and basic weekly wage rate at the time of leaving the  
Companies as indicated below:  
### YEARS OF  
### SERVICE SEPARATION PAYMENTS  
0 1 week of pay  
1 2 weeks of pay  
2 4 weeks of pay  
3 é weeks of pay  
4 8 weeks of pay  
5 10 weeks of pay  
6 12 weeks of pay  
7 14 weeks of pay  
8 16 weeks of pay  
? 18 weeks of pay  
10 20 weeks of pay  
1] 23 weeks of pay  
12 25 weeks of pay  
13 27 weeks of pay  
14 29 weeks of pay  
15 3] weeks of pay  
16 35 weeks of pay  
17 37 weeks of pay  
18 39 weeks of pay  
19 41 weeks of pay  
20 43 weeks of pay  
21 45 weeks of pay  
22 47 weeks of pay  
23 49 weeks of pay  
24 51 weeks of pay  
25+ 53 weeks of pay  
Employees may select one of the following payment options for Separation  
Benefits:  
l.  
A single payment paid by the end of the month following the month  
in which the employee separates: or  
21  
### WWOWKWOWNNMWHMWNNNNNN Hoo  
### HTS  
Section 2.07 SEPARATION BENEFITS (Continued)  
2. A single payment paid at ihe end of the first quaster of the year  
foliowing separation: or  
3. A partial payment, in the amount determined by the employee. paid  
by the end of the month following the month in which the employee  
separates, with payment of the balance deferred until the end of the  
first quarter of the year following separation; or  
4, Monthly payments beginning the month the month in which  
the employee isaves the service of the Companiées uniil all payments  
have bsen made.  
The years of net credited service will be prorated for any period during  
which an employee is employed on a part-time basis in the same manner  
as calculated in the Pacific Telesis Pension Plan.  
As used in this Section, "basic weekly wage tate (or Its equivalent)" does  
not include differentials, overtime or any other extra payments.  
At the time of reemployment with the Companies, a teciplent of the  
Separation Benefits must repay the unused portion of the payment  
(the number of weeks of payment minus the number of weeks off the  
payroll). Repayment may be made in whole or by payroll deductions in  
each payroll period. Deductions will be made at the rate of at least ten  
percent (10%) per week of the employee's basic weekly wage rate. The  
entire amount must be repald within twelve (12) months of reemployment.  
In those cases where payment has been deferred and the employee has  
not received final payment at the time of reemployment, the employee will  
receive a single payment for the actual of weeks off the payroll.  
In those cases where the recipient has elected, or is receiving, monthly  
payments of Separation Benefits, such payments will be suspended upon  
reemployment with the Companies.  
Employees who elect to leave the service of the Companies and recelve  
Separation Benefits will continue to receive six (6) months of continued  
Company paid medical, dental and vision coverage, beginning on the  
date of their separation, with for COBRA coverage beginning at  
the end of the continued Company paid coverage.  
22  
1  
2  
=  
4  
§  
&  
?  
8  
9  
10  
11  
12  
13  
14  
1S  
16  
17  
18  
19  
20  
21  
22  
23  
24  
25  
26  
2?  
28  
29  
30  
3]  
32  
33  
34  
35  
36  
37  
38  
39  
40  
4l  
42  
43  
44  
45  
46  
47  
48  
49  
50  
5]  
52  
93  
54  
55  
36  
97  
K.  
Section 2.07 SEPARATION BENEFITS (Continued)  
‘Least senior identified surplus employees within a surplus work group that  
remain surplus after the 30 day voluntary phase of the force movement  
process described in Section 2.06B6 will be offered and may elect, In order  
of seniorlty. to teave the service of the Companies and receive the  
Voluntary Surplus Reduction Option (VSRO) subject to the following  
conditions. VSRO includes:  
Separation Benefits as described above In Sectlon 2.07  
$3,000 added to the Separation Benefits payment  
12 months unlimited access to AUTS  
The Companies will determine the perlod during which the employee  
may, if he or she so elects, leave the service of the Companies. None  
of the determinations by the Companies nor any part of this Section  
2.07K will be subject to arbitration.  
The number of employees who elect to leave the service of the  
Campanies and receive VSRO shall not exceed the number of  
employees determined by the Companies to be surplus.  
An employee's election to leave the service of the Companles and  
recelve VSRO must be In wilting and transmitted to the  
within five (5) calendars days of the last day in the 30 day voluntary  
-phase of the force movement process. Such electlon may not be  
revoked after the five (5) calendar day period.  
The $3,000 will be added to and paid with Separation Benefits in the  
manner elected as a payment option under Section 2.070.  
At the time of reemployment with the Companies, a iecipient of VSRO  
must repay the entire unused portion of the payment (the number of  
weeks of payment minus the number of weeks off the payroll). The  
$3,000 will equate to four (4) weeks of pay and that four (4) weeks will  
be added to the number of weeks of Separation Benefits for this  
purpose, Repayment may be made In whole or by payroll deductions  
as described in Section 2.07G,  
In those cases where payment has been deferred and the employee  
has not received final payment at the time of reemployment, the  
employee will receive a single payment for the actual number of  
weeks off the payroll calculated as described in Section 2.07K5  
above.  
in those cases where the tecipient nas elected, or is receiving.  
monthly payments of VSRO (i.e.. the $3,000 added to and paid with  
Separation Benefits), such payments will be suspended upon  
reemployment with the Companies.  
23  
oOmon oan &®N—  
Section 2.08 RELOCATION EXPENSE (fhe provisions of this section do not  
apply to Pacific Bell Hame Enterfainment)  
A.  
Employees who, in the judgment of the Companies, are to  
relocate their residence as a result of a permanent Company-initiated  
transfer shall receive reimbursement for reasonable moving expenses as  
agreed upon from time to time between the Companies and the Union.  
1, Employees accepting non-commutable positions under Sections 2.05,  
2.068, 2.06C and 2.06D will be entitled to relocation expense  
reimbursement.  
lf there Is no change of residence, as covered in Section 2.08A. the  
employee will not receive any reimbursement for moving expenses under  
this Sectlon 2,08.  
When an employee requests a change of headquarters, the expenses  
Involved in such change shall be borne by the employee.  
When an employee is returned to a previously held work assignment  
because of failure to meet performance requirements in connection with  
an employee-initiated transfer, any cost incurred by the returned  
employee will be borne by the employee.  
“For the of this Article, an assignment shail be considered non-  
commutable If the distance from the employee's permanent residence to  
the new work location is greater than that from the employee's permanent  
residence to the former work location and the actual one-way commuting  
distance exceeds forty-five (45) miles of the actual one-way commuting  
time ls greater than sixty (60) minutes by personal vehicle or greater than  
ninety (90) minutes by public transportation.  
24  
OHOowo nh wh —  
Section 2.09  
Entertainment, see Appendix 8, Sectiaen 82.08)  
A.  
### ASSIGNMENT OF HEADQUARTERS (for eae eer Home  
For purposes of this Article, the term “headquarters* shall be understood to  
mean the exchange (or the consolidated exchange area), as described in  
Section 2.098, to which the employee Is permanently assigned.  
Certain exchanges have been consolidated in order to facllitate force  
movements within general geographical areas.  
The exchanges and  
consolidated exchange areas (underlined) listed below are considered  
headquarters for purposes of this Article.  
Southern Callfornia  
Alhambra  
Arcadia  
El Monte  
Montebello  
Pasadena  
Avalon  
Baker  
Arrowhead  
Banning  
Barstow  
Blythe  
Indlo  
Palm Springs  
Temecula  
Twentynine Palms  
Yermo  
   
Burbank  
Glendale  
La Crescenta  
Canoga Park  
Agoura  
Fillmore  
Moorpark  
Northridge .  
Ojai  
Oxnard  
Reseda  
Saticoy  
Simi  
Thousand Oaks  
Ventura  
Chula Vista  
Coronado  
National City  
San Ysidro  
Compton  
Downey  
El Segundo  
Hawthorne  
Inglewood  
Compton (Continued)  
Lomita  
Long Beach  
San Pedro  
Torrance  
El Cajon  
Alpine  
La Mesa  
Pine Valley  
El Centio  
Brawley  
Calexico  
Holtvitle  
Escondido  
Borrego  
Encinitas  
Fallbrook  
Jultan  
Oceanside  
Poway  
Ramona  
Rancho Bernardo  
Rancho Santa Fe  
Vista  
Lancaster  
Los Angeles-Zone A  
Beverly Hillis  
Culver City  
Los Angeles-Zone B  
Orange  
Anaheim  
Brea  
Buena Park  
Capistrano Valley  
Fullerton  
Garden Grove  
irvine  
Newport Beach  
Placentia  
San Clemente  
Santa Ana  
25  
Riverside  
Colton  
Corona  
Fontana  
Hightand  
Pomona  
Rialto  
san Bernardino  
Saddleback Voaifey  
san Diego  
Del Mar  
La Jolla  
Pacific Beach  
Santa Barbara  
santa Maria  
Santa Monica  
Van Nuys  
Newhall  
North Hollywood  
Palmdale  
Palmdale-FAA Center  
Palmdale-Pearblossom  
Victorville  
Whittler  
ta te Ww Ww w Ww Ww Ah AD RO RO AG BAO AD AD ee a a a ae eee |  
  
Section 2.09  
Northern California  
Auburn  
Beaie All Force Base  
Camino-Pollock Pines  
Grass Valtey  
Marysvifle  
Placerville  
Tahoe-North  
Tahoe-South  
Truckee  
Bakeisfield  
Arvin  
Delano  
Edwards  
Mojave  
Mojave Swliching  
Center  
Taft  
Tehachapl  
Wasco  
Chico --  
. Downleville  
Gridley  
Onland  
Oroville  
Paradise  
Portola  
Quincy  
Willows  
Concord  
Antioch  
Crockett  
Danville  
East Contra Costa  
Latayette  
Llvermore  
Martinez  
Moraga  
Orinda  
Pittsburg  
Pleasanton  
Rlchmond-El Sobrante  
Rodeo  
Wainut Creek  
Dubiin  
East Bay  
Hayward  
Eureka  
Arcata  
Fortuna  
   
Fresno  
Clovis  
Coalinga  
Dinuba  
Firebaugh  
Hanford  
Lemoore  
Madera  
Porterville  
Selma  
Tulare  
Visalia  
Modesto  
Atwater  
Chowchilla  
Los Banos  
Merced  
Newman  
Oakdale.  
Turlock 7 ——  
Yosemite  
Monterey  
Aptos  
Carmel  
Castroville  
Felton  
Hollister  
King City  
Sallnas  
Santa Cruz  
Watsonville  
Napa  
Catistoga  
Fairfleld-Suisun  
st. Helena  
sonoma  
Vacaville  
Vallejo  
Redding  
Anderson  
Central Valley  
Corning  
Cottonwood  
Ounsmuir  
Mt. Shasta  
Red Bluff  
Susanville  
Weed  
Yreka  
26  
### ASSIGNMENT OF HEADQUARTERS (Continued)  
Sacramento  
Davis  
Dixon  
Dunnigan  
Falr Oaks  
Folsom  
Nimbus  
Rio Linda  
Woodland  
San Jose  
Campbell  
Fremont-Newark  
San Martin  
san Luls Obispo  
Arroyo Grande  
Atascadero  
Morro Bay  
Paso Robies  
San Mateo  
Half Moon Bay —  
Los Altos  
Millbras  
Mountain View  
Pacifica  
Palo Alto  
Redwood City  
San Carlos-Belmont  
south San Francisco  
Sunnyvale  
.$an Francisco  
San Rafael  
Belvedere  
Cloverdale  
Corte Madera  
Forestville  
Guerneville  
Healdsburg  
Ignacio  
Mill Valley  
Petaluma  
Point Reyes  
Santa Rosa  
Sausalito  
Sebastopol  
Stinson Beach-Bolinas  
SH oe  
er  
Stockton  
Northern Califormia (Continued)  
Angels Camp  
  
Jackson  
Lockeford  
Lodi  
Sonora  
Tracy  
Nevada  
Austin  
Battle Mountain  
Beatty  
Carson City  
Crystal Bay  
Elko  
Ely  
— —_ -  
Ukiah  
Etk  
Fort Bragg  
Lakeport  
Lower Lake  
  
Polnt Arena  
Willlts  
Emptre/Gerlach  
Fermley  
Hawthorne  
Indian Springs  
Las Vegas  
Lovelock  
Orovada  
### Section 2.09 ASSIGNMENT OF HEADQUARTERS (Continued)  
Pahrump  
Reno  
Schurz  
Tonopah  
Virginia City  
Winnemucca  
For the purposes of this Article, there will be two zone areas within the Los  
Angeles headquarters. These Zones shall consist of the terrltory within the  
base rate boundary included within the following office boundarles:  
### ZONE A  
Angelus-3434 E. 4th  
Capitol-2445 Daly  
Clinton-1207 N, Ave. 56  
Dunkirk-720 $, Rampart  
Hollywood-1429 N, Gower  
Huntiey-111 N. Union  
Madison-433 §. Olive  
Melrose-8075 Melrose  
N. Vermont  
Sunset-7323 Sunset  
Webster-666 §. La Brea  
### ZONE B  
Adams-501 E. Vernon  
Axminster-3233 W. Vernon  
Lorain-9420 Long Beach  
South Gate  
Ludlow-6822 Santa Fe,  
Huntington Park  
Pleasant-6900 S. Vermont  
Plymoutn-10600 $. Vermont  
Republic- 7935 W. Adams  
Richmond-1900 $. Grand  
Spruce-6931 Atlantic, Bell  
   
As used in this Article, the term "headquarters" shall be understood to mean  
the zones described above when refering to the Los Angeles  
headquaiters.  
27  
### NOTES  
‘  
  
  
28  
13  
### ARTICLE 3  
### COMPANY-UNION RELATIONS  
Section 3.01 The Companies and the Union recognize that It is in the best  
interests of both parties, the employees and the public that all dealings between  
them continue to be characterzed by mutual responsibility and respect. To  
insure that this relationship continues and improves, the Companies and the  
Union and thelr respective representatives at all ievels will apply the terms of this  
Contract fairly in accord with its intent and meaning and consistent with the  
Union's status as exclusive bargaining representative of all employees covered  
by this Contract. Each party shall bring to the attention of all employees in the  
units covered by this Contract, including new hires, their purpose to conduct  
themselves in a spirit of respansibillty and respect and of the measures they have  
agreed upon to insure adherence to this purpose.  
### Section 3.02 MEETINGS BETWEEN UNION AND MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVES  
A, An Officer of the Communications Workers of America National Union shail  
furnish currently to the Companles wiitten lists of its duly authorized  
bargaining representatives and other persons authorized to represent the  
Union. The Companies shail likewise notify the Union of its authorized  
bargaining representatives. The Secretary or Secretary-Treasurer of each  
Local shall furnish currently to tha Companies wriiten lists of ifs  
representatives authorized to present and process grievances, subject to  
the approval of the Union.  
B, Except as provided in Section 3.04A, Paragraph B4 of this Section and in  
Section 3.02C, authorized representatives of the Union who are employees  
covered by this Contract, and aggrieved employees who also are covered  
by this Contract, shall suffer no loss of pay at straight-time when attending  
meetings with the Companiles' representatives when such meetings pertain  
to matters relating to employees represented by the Communications  
Workers of America, subject to the following conditions:  
1. Pay shall be allowed only If (1} the employee has been excused trom  
duty in advance by the employee's supervisor to attend the meeting.  
(2) such meeting Is held during said employee’s scheduled stralght-  
time working hours, (3) said employes would have worked had the  
employee not attended such meeting and (4) such meeting pertains  
to matters relating to employees of the Companies represented by  
the Communications Workers of America.  
2. The time pald for shail be Ilmited to actual meeting time, plus  
necessary time. if any, spent during scheduled stralght-time working  
hours in traveling between the employee's polnt of work and the  
Union-Management meeting where both locations are within the  
same city. When both locations are not within the same city, paid  
travel time shall not exceed two (2) hours in each direction. For the  
purposes of this Paragraph the cities of Los Angeles and San Diego  
shall be deemed ta Include their respective extended areas.  
29  
### Section 3.02 MEETINGS BETWEEN UNION AND MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVES  
   
(Continued)  
3. Paid ime spent attending Unlon-Management mestings for purposes  
ofher than negotiating a written triennial contract, and pa/d time  
spent By authorlzed Local representatives in attending grievance  
meetings, shall be considered as time worked.  
such time spent in aitending Union-Management meetings, as  
referred to in this Paragraph, shall be considered as excused time off  
for Union activities for the purposes of Article 3, Section 3.03.  
4. The Companles reserve the sight to timit the number of employees  
who shall be paid while attending Union-Management meetings. The  
number of employees so paid at grievance meetings Is In  
Article 7, Problem Resolution Procedures.  
When a Union-Management meeting ends a reasonable time prior to the  
completion of scheduled working hours, an employee whoa would be  
working If not attending such meeting. shall return to work.  
For meetings other than those specitied in Section 3,044 or in Article 7, up  
to two {2) authorized representatives from each Union Local who are  
employees. covered. by -this Contract, and who are required, In—-the - ~—  
Judgment of the Companies, to stay overnight may. with = priar  
management approval, receive telmbursement for reasonable travel and  
lodging expenses actually Incurred in association with attending meetings  
with the Companies’ representatives when such meetings pertain fo  
matters relating to employees represented by the Communications Workers  
of Ameilca, subject to the following conditions:  
1, Relmbursement shall be allowed only if (1} the employee has been  
excused from duty In advance by the employee's supervisor to attend  
the meeting, (2} such meeting Is held dulng said employee's  
scheduled straight-time working hours, (3) sald employee would have  
worked had the employsse not attended such meeting and (4) no  
expense payment other than that provided for in 3.02F is granted to  
the employee.  
2. lf a mesting with the representatives Is held on the  
amployee's non-scheduled day during a9 normal workweek, the  
expense reimbursement specified In Section 3.02D will be granted  
even though conditions 2 and 3 in Section 3.0201 are not mat.  
3, Union Local Presidents. who are employees covered by thls Contract,  
and who are on unpaid Union activity time, are eligible fo receive the  
payment specified in thls Section 3.02D even though conditlons 2 and  
3 In Section 3.0201 arte not met.  
4, Mileage will be reimbursed In accordance with Article 5, Section  
§.05C4. .  
30  
### Section 3.02 MEETINGS BETWEEN UNION AND MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVES  
(Continued) :  
For meetings other than those specified In Section 304A or in Article 7, up  
to two (2) authorlzed representatives from each Union Local who are  
employees covered by this Contract, and who. in the judgment of the  
Companies, are not required to stay overnight may, with = prior  
management approval recelve actual expense reimbursement for travel  
when such travel expense is incurred in association with attending  
meetings with the Compoanies' representatives when such mestings  
to matters relating to employees fepresented by the Communications  
Workers of America, subject fo the following conditions:  
l, Reimbursement shall be allowed only if (1) the employee has been  
excused from duty In advance by the employee's supervisor to attend  
the meeting. (2) such meeting is held during said employee's  
scheduled stralght-time working hours, (3) said employee would have  
worked had the employee not attended such meeting and (4) no  
other expense payment is granted to the employee.  
2. If a meeting with the Companles' representatives Is held on the  
employee's non-scheduled day during a normal workweek, the  
expense reimDbursement specified in Section 3.02E will be granted  
even though conditions 2 and 3 in Section 3.02E1 are not met.  
3. Union Local Presidents, who are employees covered by this Contract,  
and who are on unpaid Union activity time, are eligible to receive the  
payment specified In this Section 3.02E even though conditions 2 and  
3 in Section 3.02E? are not met.  
4, Mileage wil be relmbursed.in accordance wlth Article 5, Sectlon  
§.05C4,  
Union representatives who are eligible to receive reimbursement as  
specifled In Section 3.02D may receive reimbursement for actual expense  
Incurred for meals up to a maximum of thirty-three dollars ($33.00) per day  
when meals are not provided by the Companies.  
### Section 3.03 TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITIES  
### GENERAL  
1. To the extent that the Companies determine that the requirements of  
the service permif. an employee who is an authorlzed representative  
of the Unton and who Is covered by this Contract will be given an  
excused absence without pay. or a leave of absence without pay.  
subject to the canditions stated hereafter. Such time off will generally  
not be granted in cases where an overtime or premium rate would  
have to be pald to the employee or employees replacing the Union  
representatives. As used In this Article the terms “excused absence"  
and “leave of absence” are defined as follows:  
31  
MOan anh on —  
Section 3.03 TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITIES (Continued)  
  
EXCUSED ABSENCE - An unpald absence not exceeding thiity  
(30) consecutive calendar days.  
LEAVE OF ABSENCE - An unpaid absence of over thirty (30)  
consecutive calendar days covered by a wilitten leave of  
absence.  
The period of excused absence shall be used solely for the purpose  
of enabling authorized representatives of the Union to cary on  
activities of the Union directly concerning Its relations with the  
Companles In connection with employees of the Companies covered  
by thls Contract, except that the period of absence may be used to  
attend, for short periods of time, natlonat or regional conventions or  
meetings of the Union.  
the perlod of leave of absence shall be used for the purpose of  
enabling authorlzed representatives of the Union to carry on activities  
of the Union concerning its relations with the Companies in  
connection with employees of the Companles represented by the  
Union, within the States or portions of States served by the  
Companies, except that,  
the petiod of absence may be used to attend national or  
regional conventions or meetings of the Union, and  
b, the period of absence may be used by not more than seventy-  
five (75) employees at any one time in serving as officers or  
representatives of the Union outside the territory described in 3  
above, and  
c. the period of absence may be used by not more than forty (40)  
employees at any one time to carry on activities of the Union  
concerning employees of other telephone companies  
represented by the Union or not represented by any Union,  
within the States or portions of States served by the Companies.  
A maximum of thitty (30) authorized representatives of the Union at  
any one time may use perlods of excused time off or leave of  
absence for such other activities as may be agreed to by the  
Companies.  
Requests for teaves of absence for Union activities shail be made in  
by the appropriate Officer of the National Union directing  
District 9 of the Union or the Union's authorized representative,  
specifying the reasons for such leaves.  
Itis agreed that the Companies have the right to terminate a leave of  
absence at any time if It is used for purposes other than those  
specified in the application.  
32  
—_—  
——_  
Oven  
ae  
> —  
7.  
1d,  
Section 3.03 TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITIES (Continued)  
Requests for excused absence shall be made by the Union  
representatives authorized for such purpose In writing to the  
appropriate Labor Relations Director, by the appropriate Officer of  
the National Union directing District 9 of the Union. Such requests  
may also be made by any of the three (3) principal Officers of a  
Local. The Secretary or Secretary-Treasurer of each Local shall furnish  
a list of such Local Officers to the approprlate Labor Relations  
Director and shall furnish amendments to such lists as changes are  
made.  
The Union shall make all requests for excused absences of leaves of  
absence as far in advance as possible, ordinarily not less than farty-  
eight (48) hours in advance of the time the employee is to be off on  
excused absence and oracinarlly not less than two (2) weeks in  
advance of the start of a leave of absence of renewal of same: the  
Companies shall act promptly on each request.  
No payment shall be made to an authorized Union representative for  
time spent in meetings with the representatives while the  
Union representative is on an excused absence or leave of absence.  
No employee shall take time off for Unton activities unless excused In  
advance by supervision.  
### B. EXCUSED ABSENCES  
1,  
The total of ali excused absences granted to an authorized Union  
representative in each calendar year shall not exceed ninety (90)  
working days. or the equivolent thereof, in full days and/or  
. fractional days. However, not more than one hundred fifty (750)  
authorized representatives of the Union may be granted excused  
absences not to exceed one hundred fifty (150) scheduled working  
days, or the equivalent thereof, in full days and/or fractional days.  
A single period of excused absence shall not exceed thirty (30)  
consecutive calendar days.  
Meeting with the Companies' representatives during a period of  
excused absence shall not be considered as breaking o continuous  
period of absence.  
Excused absences under this Section will be considered as time-  
worked for purposes of FMLA eligibility.  
NOTE: fhe provisions of this Section 3.038 will not appiy to an  
employee who accep!s a Staff position with the  
Communications Workers of America (CWA),  
### C. LEAVES OF ABSENCE  
ls  
A leave of absence will be required:  
a. lf a continuous perlod of absence for Union activity exceeds  
thirty (30) consecutive calendar days,  
33  
—  
Ovoan oa hWN —  
|  
—  
13  
Section 3.03 TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITIES (Continued)  
b. lf on employee who Is an authorized representative of the Union  
Is to have time off for Union activities In excess of ninety (90) or  
one hundred fifty (150) scheduled working days computed as  
specified In Section 3.036.  
c. As of April i, 2001, if an employee, who is an authorized  
representative of the Union, accepts a Staff position with the  
Communications Workers of America.  
If a leave of absence is granted because an employee's excused  
absences have exceeded ninety (90) or one hundred fifty (150) days  
computed as specifled in Section 3.038, the leave of absence shall  
be for a period beginning with the first scheduled working day after  
the last day worked and shall be for a period of not less than thirty-  
one (31) days. !  
ff the leave of absence fs granted because an employee accepis a  
Staff position with the CWA, ether than for a short-term temporary  
backfill, the leave of absence will be for a period beginning with the  
first scheduled working day the effective dote of the CWA  
employment and wilf nof be for a period of lass than thirty-one (31)  
_ealendar days... The.employee musi.remain on-the. leave-of absence  
untif one of the following occurs:  
a. The Staff position with the CWA fs concluded and  
the employee notifies the Companies, in accordance with  
Section 3,030, of his/her intent fo return fo work within the  
time allowed under Section 3.03C7 of this agreement.  
b. The employee would exceed the Union leave of Absence  
time allowed under Section 3.03C7 of this agreement, at  
which time the employee would notify the Companies, in  
accordance with 3.03D, of his/her intent to return to work or  
ferminate his/her ampioyment with the Companies.  
The general rules of the Companies governing leaves of absence for  
personal reasons shall apply except as changed herein.  
At no time shail more than one hundred (100) employees be on leave  
of absence under this Article.  
A leave of absence for Union activities or an extension of such a  
laave shall be for a period of not mare than one (1) year each.  
The total cumulative period of leave-of-absence for Union Business  
shall not exceed (27) years, all of which shall be counted  
as service credit In terms of The payment of premiums  
for continuation of standard fringe benefits during a leave of absence  
for Union business shall be as follows:  
Medical/Dental/Vision...... Companies pay  
GIOUP Companies pay  
34  
### OOS  
70.  
Pension Wu be determined by the employee‘s  
last tifie ond wage area prior to the  
start of the most recent leave of  
absence for Union business updated  
to current comparable title and wage  
ared.  
in computing an employee's net credited service for all purposes  
except wage progression, full credit shall be allowed for periods of  
leaves of absence for Union activities not exceeding fwenty-one (27)  
years in the aggregate during the employee's total service Iife. No  
ciedit for any purpose shal} be allowed for such leaves In excess of  
twenty-one (271) years. nor shall credit be allowed for wage  
progression purposes for any penlod covered by leaves of absence  
granted pursuant to Section 3.03.  
When the period of ao leave of absence for Union activities is to be  
Included In computing an employee's net credited service, the  
employee shalt retain eligibility, if any, according to term of service,  
io:  
qd. Death Benefits, and  
b, Shorn-Term Disability Benefits,  
In determining such employes's eligibility to sickness disability  
benefits, the first day following termination of the leave of absence  
shail be considered as the first day of absence because of sickness.  
A leave of absence granted under this Article shall automatically  
terminate If at any time the employee on leave engages in any  
galnful.occupation other than as a tepresentative of the Unlon or If  
the employee ceases to function as an authorized representative of  
the Union.  
### D. REINSTATEMENT OF EMPLOYEE UPON RETURN FROM ABSENCE  
1.  
Authorized Union representatives upon return from excused absences  
or leaves of absence shall be reinstated at work generally similar to  
that which they were engaged last prio: to thell absence, subject,  
however, to the provisions of Section 2.04B1a.  
Employees shall be placed on the payroll at the rate then In effect for  
thelr assignment and for the period of service which was credited to  
them for wage purposes at the start of their absence.  
After receipt of notice from an employee to the Companies stailng  
the desire to terminate an axcused absence or leave of absence  
prior to the specified termination date, the leave will be terminated  
upon the employee's return to work as instructed by the Companies.  
However, a leave shali be terminated at the request of the employee  
prior to its stated expiration date as provided In this Paragraph only in  
case the employee is able on the day of return to perform, on a full-  
time basis, the duties required of such an employee.  
35  
### Section 3.04 fRIENNIAL COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MEETINGS BETWEEN  
### UNION AND MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVES  
   
A. The Companies will compensate up fo four (4) authorized representatives  
of the Union, who are active employees covered by this Contract, for  
affending meetings with Management for the purpose of negotiating a  
written frrennial Contract. This compensation will be at fhe  
basic straight time wage rate for scheduled workdays only and will not  
include any differential payments. The total days paid by the Companies  
for each employee will nof exceed forty-five (45). The expenses of ail  
Union representatives will be borne by the Union. Time spent in attending  
meetings with Management under this Section will not be considered time  
worked, except for the purpose of FMLA  
### 3.05 UNION ACTIVITIES ON THE COMPANIES’ PREMISES  
A. Authorzed representatives of the Union may be granted access to the  
Companies’ premises where employees covered by this Contract are  
located upon application to the appropriate Company supervisor at the  
location in question, subject to the Companies’ practices and the  
requirements of Government regulations.  
B.. The Union. ot lis members shall not carry on any type of Union activitles on  
. ..._---_ the Companles— -premises,. except_as..provided--in-Section -3.05C—unless——- — --—-  
advance approval has been given by appropriate Company supervision  
for such activities. The Companies reserve the tight to curtail or prohibit  
any Union activity on any premises of the Companies when, In their  
judgment, such activity is not in accordance with the approval granted by  
appropriate Company supervision as provided In this Section 3.05B.  
C. Union activities involving the solicitation of members on the  
premises shall be carried on only in accordance with the following:  
1. Union representatives may solicit members among employees of the  
in the Areas now represented by this Union.  
2. such solicitation shall only be made during perlods when nelther the  
Union members nor the employees being solicited are on Company  
time, excluding pald rest and mea? periods.  
3. Such solicitation shall not be carried on in space where the  
operations or administrative work is belng performed,  
4, Such solicitation shall be limited to small groups of employees (not to  
exceed four (4)).  
5. Such solicitation shall not Interfere with the operations of the  
Companies or the use of the space for the purposes for which the  
space is intended.  
D. Authorized representativas of the Union may attend Unlon-Management  
meetings for the purposes of collective bargaining and discussing  
grleyances presented to the Union by employees covered by this Contract  
when such meetings have been suitably arranged for in advance.  
36  
### in WO 8 to GO WG GW AD AD RO ND AD AD BO DO PDO ee  
### Section 3.04 BULLETIN BOARDS  
A.  
Upon written request from the Union, the Companies agrees to Instalt or fo  
move bulletin boards for the exclusive use of the Union. Bulletin boards  
and their designations shall be provided by the Union and shail be in  
accordance with the Companies’ specifications, The size of the bulletin  
boards shall be approximately 18" x 36", 24" x 36", of 12" x 24° In dimensions.  
The number and location of bulletin boords shail be determined jointly by  
the Companies and the Union with due regard to visibility and accessibility  
to employees for whom the Union is the recognized representative. Each  
bulletin board shall be designated specifically as follows:  
### UNION BULLETIN BOARD  
Local (Number), Communications Workers of America  
Letters in such designation shall not be over 1-1/2" high. The overall size of  
the designation shall not extend beyond the bulletin board liself, or be  
more than 24" long by 2" high, and shaft be in a horizontal position within 3"  
of the top of the bulletin board.  
Unless otherwise agreed upon in advance by the Companies, the Union  
agrees not to post of distribute Union materlal ony piace on the  
Companies' premises other than on Union bulletin boards. Unless otherwise  
agreed upon advance by the Companies, the Union also agrees that  
Union bulletin boards shall be used solely for notices and announcements  
concerning Union meetings, elections, appointments to office, soclal.  
educational, of recreational affairs and agreements concluded between  
the Union and the Companies. Posted notices and announcements shall  
be appropriately identified as Union moterial intended for posting and shall  
ordinarlly bear the signature of an authorized representative of the Union.  
Should the Unlon desire to post subject matter other than the material  
specified above, it shall obtain advance approval from the Companies  
before such subject matter is posted.  
Material posted shall not contain anything controversial of anything  
derogatory to the Campaniss or any of thelr employees. The Union  
assumes responsibility for complete compliance with the provisions herein  
contained. Should the Union post material which, in the Judgment of the  
Companies, is at variance with the spilt and Intent of this such  
material shall be Immediately removed by the Union upon notification by  
the Companles.  
lf the Union violates any provision of Section 3.068 or Section 3,06C, the  
Companies, after giving due notice of such violation, may deny the sight  
of the Union to use any or all builetin boards on the Companies’ premises,  
and may remove any or all such bulletin boards.  
37  
——  
@n Oo —  
13  
  
### Section 3.07 UNION SECURITY  
Each employee who is a member of the Union or who is obligated to  
tender to the Union amounts equal to periodic dues on the date  
of this Contract. or who tater becomes a membel, and all employees  
entering into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this  
Contract shalt, as a condition of employment. pay or tender to the Union  
amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members for the perlod  
from such effective date or, in the case of employees entering into the  
bargalning unit after the effective date, on or after the thirtleth day after  
such entrance, whichever of these dates Is later, until the termination of this  
For purpose of this Section, “employee” shall mean any person  
entering into the bargaining unit, except an Occasional employee.  
Each employee who is aq member of the bargaining unlt on or before the  
effective date of this Agreement and who on the effective date of this  
Agreement was not required as a condition of employment to pay or  
tender to the Union amounts equal to the dues applicable to  
membels shall, as a condition of employment, pay or tender to the Union  
amounts equal to the perlodic dues applicable to members for the psrod  
beginning thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Agreement, unill  
the termination of this Agreement.  
The.condltion of employment specified above-shall not apply. perlods ———  
of formal separation from the bargaining unit by any such employee but  
shall reapply to such employee on the thirtieth day following the employee's  
return to the bargaining unit. The term “formal separation" includes transfers  
out of the bargaining unit, removal from the payroll of the Companies and  
leaves of absence of more than one month duration,  
The Companles may inform employees and applicants for employment of  
their rights and obligations under the provisions of this Section.  
This Section shall apply only in the State of Caltfornia on the effective date  
of this Contract. If during the term of this Contract the Union shall become  
duly authorized under the lows of the State of Nevada to enter into this type  
of unlon security agreement, the effective date of this Sectlon as to  
employees in Nevada shall be the date upon which the Companies receive  
proper written evidence fram the Union that it Is fully qualified to enter into  
such an agreement In Nevada. Upon proper written notification that the  
Union is quaiified to enter into a union security agreement, this entire Section  
will become appiicabie fo employees in Nevada.  
38  
OConernhkh Wh —  
### Section 3.08 PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES  
A.  
The Companies agree that, upon receipt of an individual written request  
on a form approved by the Companies and signed by an employee  
covered by this Contract, they will deduct monthly from such employee's  
wages the amount of Union dues specified in such request and forward  
the full amount thus deducted to the Secretary-Traasurer of the Union or  
the Union's authorized agent as directed,  
1. For all employees of fhe Companies in California, the request may be  
revoked at any time upon the employee’s written request fo the  
Company and such request should be directed to the Labor Relations  
Director, San Ramon, as approprate. For employees of the  
Companies in Nevada who curently have executed dues deduction  
cards on file. the dues deduction request may be revoked at any time  
upon the employee's written request to the Company such  
request should be directed to the Labor Relations Director, San  
Ramon. For employees of fae Companies in Nevada who execute  
dues deduction cards as described In Section 3.08€ after the effective  
date of this bargaining agreement, cancellation of payroll deduction  
authorizations will be made as specified In Section 3.08.  
2. In general, dues deductians will bs made In a designated pay-perlod  
In the current month for properly executed dues deduction  
authorzations received in the appropriate Accounting Cenier on or  
before the fifth day of the preceding month. However, the  
Companies assume no either to the employee or to the  
Union for any failure to make or for any errors made In making such  
deductions, but will make such efforts as they deem appropriate In  
correcting any such errors or omissions.  
Authorizations for dues deductions shall be "open-ended" fo provide for  
the deduction of dues In an amount which is certified to the Companies tn  
writing by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union as being the regular monthly  
membership dues of the particular Local involved. The form of such  
Individual authoslzation card shall be as approved by the Companies.  
The wiltten certification changing the amount of dues to be deducted  
musi be delivered to the Executive - Labor Relations on or betore  
the fifth work day of the month preceding the month in which the firs?  
deduction at the new rate Is to be made effective. together with a list of  
the work locations and Union Local affected by the change.  
The Companies agree to furnish the Union at the time of remitting the dues  
deducted, a ilst, on magnetic tape, of the names of those employees  
represented by the Union and the amount of dues deducted. The content  
and form of other employee information to be furnished to the Union on  
magnetic tape shall be such as agreed upon by the parties from time to  
time,  
39  
### Section 3.08 PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES (Continued)  
e.  
H,  
The following Section applles only to employees fn Nevada. Authorizations  
for dues executed pursuant to Article 3.08A after August 6,  
7989 shall specify that dues deductions may be revoked only within the  
fourteen (14) day period immediately prior to each anniversary of the  
current Bargaining Agreement or during fhe fourteen (14)  
days prior fo the termination date of fhe Collective Bargaining  
Agreement.  
Cancellations by employees of such written payroll deduction  
authorizations must be in wilting and such cancellation requests must be  
sent individually by certified mall to the Labor Relations Director, San  
Ramon. postmarked or received dulng the fourteen (14) day period  
described In 3.08. After recelpt of such cancellation the Company will  
discontinue the payroll deduction in the month following fhat In which the  
cancellation ls received and will notify the Union of the action taken.  
Cancellation of dues deduction authorizations will be made by the  
Companies on the permanent transfer or promotion of an employee to an  
Ineligible position effective the first payroll period following the transfer or  
promotion and the Companies will notify the Union of such cancellation.  
-It Is. the payroll-deduction-of Unlon dusés-shall-be in lieu -of.  
Union collection of dues, assessments and contributions on the Companies’  
premises where work operations are belng performed and while Union  
representatives and/or the employees Invoived are on Company time.  
The Union shall indemnify and hold the Companies harmless against any  
and alt claims, demands, sults, or other forms of llabillty that may arise out  
of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Companies for the  
purpose of complying with the provisions of this Article. or in rellance on  
any dues deduction card furnished under the provisions of this Anicle ofr on  
any certification by the Union,  
40  
OOn —  
### Section 3.09 NON-DISCRIMINATION  
D.  
In a desire to restate thelr respective policies, neither the Companies nor  
the Union shall unlawfully discriminate against any employee because of  
such employee's race, color, religion. sex, age, marital status, sexual  
or natlonal origin or because the person Is disabled, a special  
disabled veteran, a disabled veteran of a veteran of the Vietnam era.  
The Companies and the Unlon recognize that potential conflicts may arise  
between obligations under the Americans With Disabillties Act (ADA) and  
the terms of the Contract. in order to minimize disputes between the  
Companles and the Union due to any such potential conflicts and to  
ensure timely resolution, the parties agree that all Issues regarding actions  
which the Companles believe to be consistent with the ADA and the Union  
believes to be [In conflict with the Contract will be referred to and  
addressed by a National Union Representative, a representative from the  
affected Union Local, the Labor Relations Director (or authorized  
representative) and a representative from the affected Company  
(“ADA Liaison Commitise”’).  
l, The ADA Lialson is empowsred to resolve any Issues oF  
problems regarding a potential conflict between obligations under  
the ADA and the terms of this Contract.  
2. Agreements made by the ADA Liaison Committee will not prejudice  
the position of either party and will not be cited in any other  
proceeding. Such agreements will not be subject to the grievance  
and arbitration process,  
3. Unresolved issues of problems regarding potential conflicts will nos  
delay or defer the Companiles' actions. If the ADA Liaison Committes  
is unable to sesolve a dispute, the Issue(s) regarding appropriate  
actions under the ADA and the Contract may then be addressed  
under the arbitration provisions of the Contract. To ensure timely  
resolution of such disputes, the grievance procedure shall be  
bypassed and the matter may be submitted directty to arbitration.  
It Is mutually agreed that neither party shall interfere with, restrain, coerce,  
or otherwise discriminate agalnst employees in their right to Join or assist, or  
fiom joining or assisting. any labor organization.  
Tha Companies shall nof interfere with. restrain, coerce. intimidate oF  
otherwise discriminate against any employee because of membership or  
lawful activity in forwarding the interests or purposes.of the Union,  
### Section 3.70 FEDERAL OR STATE LAWS  
In the event any Federal or State law or ragulation of governmental order, or ihe  
flnal decision of any court or board of competent jurisdiction affects any one or  
more provisions of this Contract, the provision or so affected shall be  
made to comply with the requirements of such taw, reguiation, governmental  
order, or decision for the lacalities within the Jurisdictlon and otherwise the  
Contract shall continue in full force and effect.  
4l  
### NOTES  
|  
|  
|  
*.  
  
42  
OO & —  
### ARTICLE 4  
### JOB TITLES AND CLASSIFICATIONS  
### Section 4.01 NEW JOB TITLES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS  
A.  
Whenever the Companies determine it appropriate to create a new job  
(i.e.. a new fitle or use of a current job title for a new position being  
established in a fifth level organization or next lower level organization if no  
fifin level organization exists), in the bargaining unit, during the life of the  
contract, they shall proceed as follows:  
1.  
The Companies will notify the Union before an Occupational Job  
Evaluation (OJE) is conducted, including the reason for the OJE, the  
rationale behind the request, the number of Incumbents (proposed)  
and work locatlon{s) (proposed). Following such notice to the Union,  
the Companies may proceed to complete the OJE and establish a  
provisional job title and wage schedule.  
The Companies willl notify the Union of the provisional Job title and  
wage schedule that is established. Following such notice to the  
Union, the Companies may proceed to staff such job fitle af the  
determined wage schedule. The Companies will conduct a follow-up  
review to assess whether the provisional rating remoins appropriate.  
The follow-up review will occur no less than six (6) months after  
staffing. After the follow-up review is completed, the  
Union will be nofifled. Notification will Inctude the specific  
justifications for the recommended title(s) and/or wage schedule(s).  
Whenever the Companies, during the life of the Contract, determine it  
to reclassify a job tite or wage schedule because the job  
content of an existing job has changed due to new technology of  
functionalization they shall proceed as follows:  
1,  
The Companies will notify the Union before an Occupational Job  
Evaluation (OJE) is conducted, including the reason for the OJE, the  
rationale behind the request, the number of incumbents (existing)  
and location(s) (existing). Fallowing such notice to the Union,  
the Companles may proceed to complete the OJE and reclassify the  
job title or wage schedule.  
43  
19 C.  
38 F.  
### Section 4.01 NEW JOB TITLES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS (Continued)  
2. The Companiles will notify the Union of any reclassification of the title  
or the wage schedule Including the specific justifications used to  
make the determination leading to such reclassification(s}. Following  
such notice to the Unlon, the Companies may proceed to staff such  
joo: title or classification. Wage Administrative practices In Appendix  
C, Section{s) C8.02 and C8.04, respectively, will be applied for  
upgraded or tateral reclassifications. The Job Evaluation Transition  
Pay Plan (JETPP) Memorandum of Agreement? will be applied for  
reciassifications resulting ina downgrade. Any title or wage schedule  
change will be effective with the next payroll perod following  
notification to the Department.  
NOTE: No other reclassification of existing Jobs will occur during the  
life of this Contract: rather any such reclassifications will  
normally be negotiated during triennial bargaining.  
The Companles agree to meet with the Union upon the Union's request to  
discuss any aspect of the Job evaluation process which led to the  
Companies’ decision regarding the recommended title and/or wage  
schedule, tncluding the rationale used by fhe Companies to arrive at the  
recommended title and/or wage schedule.  
“Within thirty (30) calendar days from the Union's recelpt of the Section  
4.01B2 notice or no later than thirty (30) calendar days from  
the Union's receipt of the Section 4.01A2 follow-up notice, the Union shall  
have the right to initiate negotiations concerning the wage rates ofr  
schedules established or changed by the Companies.  
If negotiations are not so Initiated within the thirty (30) calendar day  
periods described in Section 4.01D or lf agreement is reached between the  
parties concerning the wage rates and schedules within sixty (60) calendar  
days following recelpt of tne Section 4.01A2 follow-up notice or the Section  
4.0182 reclassification notice, the wage rates and schedules set by the  
Companies or agreed to by the Partles, shall jemain in effect.  
lf negotiations are so initiated pursuant to Section 4.019 and If the parties  
are unable to reach agreement on the schedule of wage rates within sixty  
(60) calendar days following the Union's recelpt of the Sectlon 4.01A2  
follow-up notice or the Section 4.0182 reclassification notice, the Union  
must notify the Campanies in writing of its intentlon to submit the issue of an  
appropriate schedule of wage rates to a Neutral Third Party for resolution,  
to be selected as set farih In Section 4.01G.  
NOTE: The Union's written notice shall specify ine wage schedule the  
Union bell6ves should be assigned fo the jab In question and the  
reasons why.  
If such notification Is not received by the within sixty (60) days  
of the recelpt of the Section 4.01A2 follow-up notice or the Section  
4,0182 reclassification notice, the matter shall be considered settled in the  
Companies' favor and shall not be subject to further handling under this  
procedure, nor may the issue be submitted to the problem resolution,  
gilevance and arbitration procedures.  
  
57  
G,  
### Section 4.01 NEW JOB TITLES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS (Continued)  
The Neutral Third Party referred to shall be selecteco by mutual  
agreement of the parties from ao panel of six (6) arbitrators selected for  
their expertise in the field of job evaluation.  
The members of the panel may be changed by mutual agreement of the  
parties. Though the panel members will normally teceive first  
consideration, the parties reserve the tight to Jaintly select a Neutral Third  
Party oufside of the panel to serve on an ad hoc basis.  
1. The Neutral Third Party will render a written decision within fifteen (15)  
working days after the hearing.  
2. The Neutral Third Party is empowered to decide only whether the  
wage schedule assigned by the Companies or the wage schedulé  
requested by the Union is the appropriate wage schedule.  
3. The Neutral Third Party is not ampowered to assign a wage schedule  
and title that is not currently contained in the collective  
bargaining agreement or to render a decision on any other issues.  
4, the Neutral Third Party shall have no authority to add to, subtract  
from, of modify any provisions of the collective bargaining  
agreement.  
The procedures set forth in Section 4.01 shall be the exclusive means by  
which the Union may dispute the schedule of wage rates which the  
Companies set for any new, restructured or redefined Job ftitla of  
classification established by Sectlon(s) 4.0)A and B. Disputes regarding job  
classifications which are not governed by this Section 4.01 may be pursued  
under the Problem Resolution Procedures set forth in Article 7.  
### Section 4.02 ASSIGNING TITLES  
A.  
The assignment of particular titles to employees with titles listed in  
Appendix A, Sections Al.01, A2.01, A3.01 and A4.01 and Appendix B. does  
not mean that they shall perform oaniy the kind of work coming under their  
title classification, nor that certain’ kinds of work shall be performed  
exclusively by cerialn classifications of employees.  
Except as provided for in Appendix A, A3.05B and C an employee  
assigned to work falling in a higher wage group (other than work Incidental  
to the lower classification) shall. durlng the period the employee Is  
assigned to work falling in a higher wage group, be assigned a title in the  
wage group In which the employee works a greater part of the normal  
workweek for a period of one week or more.  
Employees who are regularly assigned to work coming under more than  
one (1) title classification listed in Appendix A, Sections A1.01 and A2.01, or  
Appendix 8, which carry Identical wages and working conditions, shall be  
classified under the title which covers the work on which they are  
engaged for the greater part of the time.  
4$  
a  
### Section 4.03 PART-TIME, TERM, TEMPORARY AND OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES  
### PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
A part-time employee Is one who is employed and normally scheduled to  
work less hours per average month than a comparable full-time employee  
in the same job tite, classification and work group working the same  
9: normal daily tour. Treatment of a part-time employee under the  
10 Companies’ benefit plans and payment programs is dependent on the  
employee's “average workweek" and whether the employee is  
12 "grandfathered."  
13  
### 14 1. "GRANOFATHERED" PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
15  
16 q. Certain part-time employees shall be *grandfatheread’* as foliows:  
17  
18 1. Reguiar part-time employees who were on the active  
payroll of the Companies as of December 31, 1980 and  
20 who were classified as part-time on August 9, 1992 shall be  
21 “grandfathered” so long as they continue to be classified  
22 as part-time; and  
23 _ . . _. -- ~ : ‘ .  
- — -- Regular-employees-who were on the active payrallof the -——_—"—  
5 Companies as of December 31, 1980, who were classified  
26 as full-time on August 9, 1992, and who become classified  
27 . as part-time as a result of surplus in which there are no  
28 Regular commutabte full-time jobs available for which they  
2? are shall be "grandfathered’ so long as they  
30 continues fo be classified as part-time, unless and unfil such  
31 time as they have been offered, and have rejected, the  
32 opportunity to be placed In a commutable Regular full-  
33 time job. ’  
34  
35 b. "Grandfatherea” employees shall, during the applicabie term of  
36 part-time employment, recelve payments under benefit plans  
37 and payment programs an the same basis as was applicable to  
38 part-time employees on December 3t, 1980.  
39  
### 40 2. ALL OTHER PART-TIME EMPLOYEES  
Al  
42 All part-time employees who are not "grandfathered" shall receive  
43 payments under the benefif plans and payment  
44 programs as described in this section.  
45  
46 Qo. Part-time employees who are not include. bul  
47 area not timited to:  
48  
49 Employees who were on the active payroll of the  
50 Companies as of December 31, 1980 and who were not  
5] classifled as part-time on August 9, 1992; and  
| 52 .  
| §3  
| 54  
55  
56  
57  
46  
### SSH Sew  
  
Section 4.03  
### PART-TIME, TERM, TEMPORARY AND OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES  
(Continued)  
2. Regular part-time employees who were hired or rehired on  
or after January 1, 1981.  
When an employee begins working part-time the ‘average  
workweek” will be determined in advance by dividing the  
employee's normally expected scheduled hours per month by  
4,35 and rounding the result to the next higher whole number.  
(For example: 68 hours per month divided by 4.35 equals 15.6,  
rounded to an average workweek of 16 This “average  
workweek" will apply until an employee has worked a full  
calendar quarter as a part-time employee.  
After an employes has worked a full calendar quarter as a part- .  
time employee, the “average workweek” will be redetermined as  
of the end of each calendar quarter during which the employee  
was classiflad as a part-time employee for the entire quarter.  
The ‘average workweek" for the following quarter will be  
determined by averaging ali hours worked during the prior  
quarter. This average includes:  
(1) Hours worked up to a maximum of eight (8) per day or forty  
(40) pet week; and  
(2) Hours scheduled or assigned to be worked but excused,  
paid of unpald.  
(3) The total of (1) & (2) above will be limited to a maximum of  
sight (8) hours per day or forty (40) per week.  
For perlods of service as a part-time employee after January 1,  
1993, proration calculations for wages or service for each of the  
following benefit plans and payment programs will be based on  
the relationship of the Individual part-time employee's “average  
workweek" to a forty (40) hour workweek:  
Pension Plan  
Comprehensive Disability Benefit Plan  
Life Insurance Plans  
savings Plan  
severance Plans  
Vacation, Holiday and Paid Personal Days Off  
Sickness Absence Payments  
Team Performance  
The revised calculation method will not apply retroactively, and  
receiving disablity benefits under the  
Comprehensive Disability Benefits Plan, sickness absence  
sayments, of vacation payments on January |, 1993. will  
continue to receive the same tevel of benefits until their  
sligibillty for such benefits of payments expires.  
47  
: Haase eee ee  
  
### Section 4.03 PART-TIME, TERM, TEMPORARY AND OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES  
(Continued)  
6. Monthly contributions to the Medical, Dental and Vision Plans  
will be prorated using the same percentage calculated in  
4.03A26 or 4.03A2c as applicable. The Companies will  
pay that percent of the cost of coverage for Medical, Dantal  
and Vision care. The pait-time employee wilt pay the difference  
between the Company contributions and the cost of the plan.  
3. A part-time employes shall not be pald Sickness Absence payments  
under 5.01F uniess such absence due to sickness occurs on a  
day of the week on which the employee is normally scheduled to  
work and gq full-time employee in the same citcumstance would be  
paid.  
### TERM EMPLOYEES:  
Term employees are those engaged for a specifle project or limited period  
with the definite understanding that thelr employment is to terminate upon  
completion of the project or at the end of the period. Employment is  
expected to continue for more than one (1) year, but no more than three  
(3) years. Term employees are covered by alll Provisions of this Contract  
except-where-otherwise provided. wane we ks ag me  
Term employees are not to be assigned work which would direcily result in  
the surplus orf layoff of Regutar employees in the same title and  
administrative unlt to which they are assigned.  
### TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES  
Temporary employees are those engaged for a specific project or a  
limtted period, with the definita understanding that thelr employment  
is to terminate upon completion of the project or at the end of the  
period, and whose employment Is expected to continue for more  
than three consecutive weeks but not for more than one year.  
2. All Temporary employees shall be advised of their employment status  
and all pertinent Information related thereto at the time of hiring.  
3, All provisions of this Contract shall apply to Temporary employees,  
except where otherwise provided.  
4. Should the tearm of employment of a Temporary employee exceed  
one year, then the employee will be reclassified to a Term employes  
effective with the first day following the completion of one year.  
a. The maximum'term of employment for a Temporary employss  
who Is reclassified ta Term under the provisions of this Section  
4.03¢C4 will be three (3) years from the date of hirllng as a  
Temporasy employee.  
48  
### VB AR aN  
57  
Section 4.03  
   
### PART-TIME, TERM, TEMPORARY AND OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES  
(Continued) |  
A Temporary employee who is reciassified to Term under the  
provisions of this Section 4.03¢4 will be eligible for Term  
employes as described In Section 4.03€ from the time of  
reclassification.  
A Temporary employee who is reciassified to Term under the  
provisions of this Sectlon will be eligible for vacation and  
Personal Days Off in accordance with the provisions of Article 6,  
Sections 6.02A1 and 6.04 applicable to Term employees. from  
the date of However, nothing in this Section will  
cause such a reclassified employes to receive more vacation or  
Personal Days Off than they would have received had they  
been classifled as a Term employee from the date of hiring as a  
Temporary employee,  
### D. OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES  
An Occasional employees is one who is engaged on a daily basis for a  
perlod of not more than three (3) consecutive weeks, or for a cumulative  
total of not more than thirty (30) days, in any calendar year, regardless of  
the length of the daily or weekly assignments. An Occasional employee  
who actually works or is engaged to work in excess of thres (3) consecutive  
weeks or thirty (30) days in a calendar year shall be reclassified as a  
Regular or Temporary, full-time or part-time employee as appropriate.  
49  
Oeon oma  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES.  
----~ -T pénsion Death Benetit  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### ES  
### Section 4.03 PART-TIME, TERM, TEMPORARY AND OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES  
(Continued)  
### E. BENEFIT ELIGIBILITY  
Employees are eligible to particlpate In employee benefit plans and other  
payment programs as shown below. Specific eligibillty requirements are as  
described in individual plan documents or terms described elsewhere in the  
Contract of Company policies.  
### BENEFIT EMPLOYEE | EMPLOYEE  
[| MedicolPion YES.  
[| DentalPian | YES  
[Vision Plan | VES  
oan | ves  
Disability Benefit Plan  
| Uife insurance Pion | YES —__  
[| SavingsPlan  
| Severance Plans  
Leaves Other Than | ves  
Required By Law Y  
| Adoption | VES  
_Corepus | ES  
  
Spending Accounts  
7  
### Y  
  
### T  
¥  
  
### Y  
¥  
### Y  
  
  
### V  
   
«Employees with no previous Bell System service ore not eligible. Otners may  
be eligible for participation dependent on past service and past eligibllity  
and on specific terms of the Plan Document.  
30  
nh Wh —  
A.  
### ARTICLE §  
### WORK ADMINISTRATION, COMPENSATION AND  
### SPECIAL PAYMENTS  
### section 5.01 WAGE SCHEDULES AND PAYMENTS  
Employees in titles in Appendix A, Al.01, A2.01, A4,01, AS or  
Appendix B shall be paid at thelr weekly basic rate of pay for forty (40)  
hours of work. Employees in titles listed in Appendix A, Section A3.01 shall  
be pald at the basic rate per week as established for their respective  
classificatlons. The wage schedules and top rates of pay shall be as stated  
in Appendix C3 of this Contract.  
In any case where a Compony building Is located upon property which lies  
within two (2} exchanges, and if such exchanges are classiflad differently  
for wage rate purposes, any employee who Is regularly assigned to report  
for work in such a Company building shall be paid at the wage rate that  
pertains to the higher exchange  
Except as provided in Section wage Increases in the amounts shawn  
in the schedules shall be granted automatically on completion of the time  
intervals specified.  
i, No wage increase’ shall become effective dulng a perod of  
absence in excess of seven (7} calendar days, pald vacations  
excepted.  
a. A period of absence of seven (7) calendar days or iess shall  
have no effect on the of the effective date of  
increase.  
b. If the effective date for a scheduled Increase occurs during a  
period of absence in excess of seven (7) calendar days, but not”  
to exceed thirty (30) catendar days, the increase will become  
effective on the day the employee returns to work. Such  
adjustment in the effective date of this increase shall not  
change the date fram which the time inierval for the next  
increase would otherwise be computed.  
51  
Section 5.01 WAGE SCHEDULES AND PAYMENTS (Continued)  
c. If the effective date for a scheduled increase occurs during a  
perlod of absence of over thirty (80) calendar days, the first  
thirsty (30) calendar days of such absence shall be credited to  
the employee's previously accrued time on the wage  
progression schedule and the increase shali become effective  
either on the day the employee returns to work if the employee  
has been credited with the necessary filme Interval for next  
increase, or after the employee has worked the remainder of  
the applicable wage progression time interval.  
é. In no case shall the application of the provisions of this Section 5.01B  
operate to make an increase effective on a date earlier than would  
have resulted had no absence occurred.  
When an employee is absent for more than thirty (30) consecutive  
calendar days, only the first thirty (30) calendar days of such absence shall  
be credited to the employee's previously accrued total schedule time on  
the wage schedule.  
### FLEXIBLE STARTING RATES  
1. -When, In the judgment of the Companies, an -increase’-becomes  
desirable In starting rates for any of ali title ctassifications tn a  
particular exchange listed in Appendix C4 of this Contract, the  
Companles will so notify the Union and will discuss with the Union both  
the starting rate and method of progression from the new starting rate  
to the particular existing schedule.  
2. If the Union and the Companles recch an agreement thereon, the  
schedule for such title classification or title classifications between the  
points where the old schedule Is reached and the maximum rate, as  
well as the overall schedule length, will remain unchanged; and the  
employees to whom such altered schedule applies will be placed on  
the altered schedule with the same total schedule time they had on  
the previous schedule.  
a lf the Companies and the Union fail to reach agreement within fifteen  
(15) days after the above date of notification of said proposal, such  
schedule shall remain unchanged,  
4. The Companies may discontinue or reduce the amount of such  
increased starting rates at any time but such discontinuance or  
reduction shall not cause a decrease In the wage rate of any  
employee whose wage rate was increased under Subpasagiraph 1 or  
2 of this Section 5.01D. The application of this Subparagraph 4 shall  
not result in starting rates lower than those on the old schedule.  
An employee hired with previous wage experience credit, military service,  
technical training, typing or key puncn skills useful to the Companies shall  
be granted wage credit In accordance with the wage credit practice  
agreement.  
32  
Section 5.01 WAGE SCHEDULES AND PAYMENTS (Continued)  
F,  
   
~_  
All employees with at least one (1) year of service shall be paid for sickness  
absence beginning with the first scheduled working day of absence.  
Sickness absence payments shall be limited to a maximum of five (5) days  
in the seven day period.  
lis The scheduled working days referred to in this Section 5.01F shall be  
computed in accordance with the pattern of scheduled days-of the  
workweek in which the sickness absence first occurred regardless of  
the number of scheduled workdays In that week. This pattern shall be  
deemed to continue into all subsequent workweeks of such absence  
for determining work time lost and days for which sickness absence  
should be paid.  
2, Sickness absence shall not be deemed to continue inic the second  
workweek unless such absence includes the fitst scheduled day of the  
original work schedule for the second week.  
When employees report on the job for duty on a scheduled day and  
subsequently become sick and are excused by the supervisor before  
campletion of thelr tour of duty. they will be paid at stralght time for the  
remainder of the full tour of duty for which scheduled.  
Sickness absance oayments refared to in Sections 5.01F and §.01G above  
shall Include any shift or job differentials which the employee would have  
received had the worked, but shall not include any extra  
payments which would have been received had the employee worked,  
such as Sunday, holiday, or overtime extra payments.  
The supervisor shall decide whether employees with titles listed In Appendix  
A, Sections Al.01, A2.01, A5 or Appendix B, shall work or be excused from  
duty because of bad weather conditions. If the supervisor decides that the  
employees cannot work, they shall be paid for the balance of the haif-tour  
that they were excused from duty. if the employees are notified at or  
before noon, no payment will be made for the ofternoon, Employees who  
do not report for duty shal! not be paid under the provisions of this Section.  
When an employee in titles listed In Appendix A, Sectlon A3.01, Is  
transferred from night work to day or evening work at management's  
request and loses a day's work opportunity because of the transfer, wage  
payment shall be made for the day lost at straight-time at the employee's  
normal rate of pay.  
Employees shall be paid bi-weekly, payment of wages due for the two-  
week pay-period to be made when practicable not later than the Friday  
following the last day of the pay-period, When practicable, paychecks  
shall be distributed in sufficlent tlme to permit employees to cash thelr  
checks within norma! banking hours on the regular pay day.  
53  
x  
### Section 5.02 RELIEF DIFFERENTIALS .  
A fixed relief differential of eight dollars ($8.00) a day will be paid to any  
employee in any title who, in te normai duties of in the  
performance of a new assignment, temporarily relleyes or assists a  
manager for a half four or more. These assignments may involve planning,  
distributing, directing, coordinating and training responsibilitlas other than  
induction or orlentation. The assignment specificaily excludes disciplining.  
A three dollar ($3.00) dally differential will be pold when an Operatos  
relieves a Service Assistant, Service Assistant-Bilingual o1 a Central Office  
Associate for a half tour or more.  
Section 5.03 SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS (for Pacific Bell Home Entertainment, see  
appendix 8. section 82.07)  
An employee specified in Sectlons 5.03A1 or 5.03A2 who works a regular  
shift, any part of which falts after 7:00 P.M. or prior to 6:00 A.M., shall  
receive a shift differential In accordance with the following:  
}, An employee in a title ilsted in Appendix A, Sections Al.01 or A2.0)  
shall receive a shift differentia) In the amount of ten (10) percent of  
_._. the employee's weekly basic rate_of pay, except that when-premium.  
payments are paid for a temporary change of shift in accordance  
with Appendix A, Section Al.05D, or A2.03F as appropriate, a shift  
will not be paid.  
Nofe: An employee who works a scheduled shiff on a Sunday or  
Holiday, any part of which fatis offer 7:00 P.M. or prior to 6:00  
A.M., shall receive a shift differential without regard fo his/her  
regular shift.  
a. The shift differential shall 66 added to the basic rate of pay and  
the combined rate shall be used In computing vacation  
payments, oveniime payments, holiday payments and Sunday  
payments, except that the differential shall not be added in  
computing the vacation pay of a regular day shift employee  
who, at the start of vacation, had been working a tour for which  
a differential is pald but who, upon fetutn from vacation, Is  
scheduled to work a day shift for a perlod of one (1) week or  
more.  
b. When only o part of the week is involved, the differential shall be  
prorated on the basis of a five-day week, that is, one (1) day's  
differential is one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly differential.  
c. An employee recelving a differential who is assigned  
to a day shift in connection with tralning assignments, vacation  
rallefs or training rellefs for a period of one (1) week or more but  
less than two (2) weeks shall retain the shift alfferential but shall  
not recelve premium pay for the change of shiff. Such vacation  
relief shall be deemed fo inctude any additlonal days which the  
employee on vacation may take Immediately preceding or  
following the employee's vacation.  
54  
OOnN —  
4  
Section 5.03 SHIFT DIFFERENTESES (Continued)  
=e amare ss Sew = an oe -_— - . - wae he  
An employes who ls temporarily assigned to an 4 evening of night  
shift for purposes of tralning assignments, vacation reliefs or:  
training refiefs for a period of one (1) week or more shail receive.  
the appropriate shift differential, but shall not receive premium:  
pay for a change of shift. Such vacation relief shall be deemed  
to Include any additional days which the evening or night shift  
employes may take Immediately preceding or following the  
employee's vacation.  
2. An employee in a title listed in Appendix A, Sections A3.01B or A4,01  
shall receive a shift differential in the amount of ten (10). percent of  
the employee's weekly basic rate of pay. including relief differential, if  
any.  
a. The shift differential paid under the srovisions of Section 5.03A2  
shall be added to the basic rate of pay In computing vacation,  
overtime, holiday and Sunday payments.  
b. The shift differential shall be for a full-time week of five (5) shifts.  
When an employee works fess than a full-time week of five (5) -  
shifts to which a differential is applicable, the shift differential  
will be prorated: that Is, one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly differential  
will be paid for each full shift worked for which the is  
provided in Section 5,03A2,  
An employee in a fitle listed in Appendix A, Sectlons A3.01A or C who works  
an early morning, evening or night tour of duty shall recelve a wage  
differential In an amount specified In Appendix C, for the appropriate unit,  
applying as shown in Appendix A, Sectlon A3.05. The wage differential  
specifled is for one full tour of duty. The differential will be added to the  
basic wage rate in computing vacation, overtime, holiday and Sunday  
payments.  
An employee in a title listed in Appendix A, Sections or C who works  
at jeast part of both sessions of a morning-evening tour (split-tour) shall  
recelve a differential of four dollars ($4.00). The differential will be added  
to fhe basic wage rate in computing vacation, overtime, holliday, Sunday  
and Personal Days Off.  
Section 5.04 OVERTIME AND CALL-OUTS (for Pacific Beli Home Enterfainment.,  
see Appendix 8, Section 82.05)  
The provisions of this Section apply to all employees unless otherwise  
specified. Refer to Appendix A for addiional overtime and premium  
payments provisions.  
Overtime {s that time worked in excess of the daily work period of eight  
(8) hours for five day a week employees or ten (10) hours for four day a  
week employees continuing relieved from duty, and/or in excess of  
the normal workweek or Its equivalent (overtime is time, not money}.  
55  
### I  
|  
ow WwW NNN NN — ee et et ett  
Cc.  
Section 5.04 OVERTIME AND CALL-OUTS (Continued)  
Premium payments are payments in excess of the basic rate of pay.  
(Premium payments are money, not time.) The premium rates of pay are  
one and one-half hours’, two hours’ and two and one-half hours’ pay for  
one (1) hour worked. Not more than one (1) premlum payment shall be  
paid for any one (1) hour worked.  
For employees having titles listed in Appendix A, Sectlons Al.01, A2.01 and  
A4.01, time worked in excess of the dally work perlod of elght (8) hours  
and/or tn excess of the normal workweek of forty (40) hours, (or Its  
equivalent for employees identified In the following Paragraph) shall be  
paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour  
worked,  
For employees having titles listed in A, Section A3.01,tlme worked  
on weekdays In excess of a full tour of duty (eight hours for an 8-hour tour,  
seven and one-half hours for a 7-1/2 hour tour, seven hours for a 7-hour  
tour, or six hours for a 6-hour tour) shall be paid for aot the rate of one and  
one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked.  
Time paid for but not worked on a holiday which falls Monday through  
Friday In the calendar week, and time paid for but not worked on Personal  
Days Off shall-be-included when determining time worked-in excess. of -the  
normal workweek (or its equivatent for employees Identiflad In the  
Paragraph directly above). The following time shall be excluded when  
determining time worked in excess of the normal workweek or Its  
equivalent:  
1. Time paid for but not worked, except holiday pay and Personal Days  
Off as provided in Section 5.04E and time which is considered as time  
wosked as provided In Section 3.02B3.  
2. Time worked beyond eight (8) hours on any day for employess  
scheduled five (5) days per week or time worked beyond ten (10)  
hours on any day for employees scheduled four (4) days per week.  
a Time worked on weekdays in connection with calls outside of a  
scheduled tour/shift, or if not scheduled, a regular tour/shift, provided  
that such time [s not in lieu of a scheduled tour/shift and is paid for at  
a premium sate.  
Time worked on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of one and one- half  
(1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked. Sunday tours/shifts are tours/shifts  
starting on Sunday.  
56  
Section 5.04 OVERTIME AND CALL-OUTS (Continued)  
— “ — -  
Emptoyees who are notifled less than three (3) hours before the start of  
thelr that their immediate services are required shall be paid at  
the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) from time of notification to the start  
of the tour/shiff, If all or part of this period is worked, and shall be paid at  
the straight-time rate for that part. or all, of their tour/shift worked  
thereafter. The minimum time paid for shalt be two (2) hours.  
Employees who are notifled three (3) hours of more before the start of their  
tour/shift that their immediate services are required and whose work  
continues into the tour/shift shail be paid at the rate of one and one-half  
(1-1/2) hours' pay for each hour worked from time of notification unttl the  
employee is relieved from duty, except as provided below. Mea) period  
intermission shail no? constitute a relief from duty.  
NOTE: Employees covered by Appendix A, Sections Al.01 aad A2.01 who  
report to work three (3) hours before the start of thelr tour/shift  
when immediate § services are not required, will raceive pay  
treatment as provided in A, Sectlons Al.05B, and A2.03A.  
If a call-out as specified In Section 5.04H above results in an employee  
working sight (8) hours at one and one-half {1-1/2} hours' pay for each  
hour worked, such time may be considered in lieu of a regular tour/shift,  
and, at management's discretion, the employee may be relleved from  
duty.  
When employees are called for work which requires their Immediate  
services, work time starts from time of The minimum time paid  
for shall 66 two (2) hours and shall be paid for at the rates applicable  
- (premium, holiday, straight-tlme, etc.). Normal traveling time to home will  
be included except when:  
1. The employee continues working to the end of a scheduled tour/shift  
or half-tour/shift or  
bs The employee requests, and is granted, excused time off with or  
without pay.  
When employees are notifled that thelr immediate services are required on  
other than a scheduled work day. they shall be paid at the tates  
applicable (premium, holiday, straight-time, etc.) for a minimum period of  
two (2) hours including travel time from and to home.  
When an employee Is assigned to work of less than four (4) hours' duration  
when the employee's Immediate services are not required, travel time from  
and to home shall be considered work time. The minimum time paid for  
shall be two (2) hours including traveling time. The maximum time pald for,  
including traveling time, shall be four (4) hours. When such employee works  
four (4) hours or more, excluding traveling time, such traveling time shall  
not be considered work time, and shall not be pald for.  
57  
Section 5.04 OVERTIME AND CALL-OUTS (Continued)  
L.  
### 5.05 EXPENSE ALLOWANCE  
All hours worked in excess of forty-nine (49) In the catendat week shall be  
paid at the rate of two (2) hours' pay for each hour worked.  
1. Time included when calculating time worked toward the forty-nine  
(49) rule:  
a, All time worked.  
5, Time paid for but not worked on Holidays and paid Personal  
Days Off.  
CG. Paid time off fo vote.  
d. Paid time off (UP) spent by Union representatives attending  
meetings with management.  
For pay treatment on holidays, see Anicle 6 of this Contract.  
No wage payments shall be made for specified meal periods taken  
outside of scheduled hours.  
   
A,  
### PER DIEM ALLOWANCE AND LODGING  
1, When an employee is tamporarlly assigned to a work location other  
than the employee's assigned headquarters and, as determined by  
the Companies, dally travel by the employee would be impractical,  
the Companies may establish a temporary headquarters at a place  
where suitable board and lodging may be obtained or provided, In  
which case the employee shat! be eligible to receive an allowance of  
thirty-three dollars ($33.00) per dlem and lodging at the  
expense.  
2. An employee entitled to receive the per diem allowance and lodging  
at the Companies’ expense under Section 5.05Al may, upon proper  
management approval and in lieu of the per diem allowance and  
lodging at the expense, be gianted nome board and  
lodging allowance at the rate of thirty-three dollars ($33.00) per day  
when the nature of the work will permit and the employee establishes  
a bona fide home at the location of the work. When such home  
board and lodging Is authorlzed, it shall also be paid for periods not  
worked on Sundays. holidays, days absent due to weather conditions  
and other authorized absence not Including vacations.  
58  
& wn —  
3.  
Section 5.05 EXPENSE ALLOWANCE (Continued)  
An employee entitled to receive the per diem allowance and lodging  
at the Companies’ expense under Section §.05Al may, upon proper  
management approval, be granted an allowance at tne rate of  
thirty-three dollars ($33.00) per day for each day warked in tieu of the  
per diem allowance and lodging at the Companies’ expense when  
the location of the work permits travel on the employee's own time  
and expense, between the employee's bona fide home and the  
location of the job. tn such cases, the thirty-three dollar ($33.00)  
allowance will only be paid for the days actually worked,  
On personal trips over weekends and holidays, an emptoyee who is  
being provided the per diem allowance and lodging at the expense  
of the Companies may, upon proper approval and in the event  
Company transportation is not available, be granted the lesser of fhe  
following two allowances, but In no case shail payment be made for  
travel time:  
a. An allowance equivalent to commercial transportation costs to  
the appropriate, as determined by the Companies, commercial  
transportation terminal at the employee's home location and  
return. in addition, the employee will be paid the mileage  
allowance at the agreed upon rate for use of an employee's  
personal vehicle on Company business for the distance between  
the work location and the commercial transportation terminal at  
the temporary work and return and for the distance  
from the transportation termina! at the employee's  
home location to the employee’s home and retuin, or  
b. The actual savings to the Companies due to the employee's  
absence from the established boarding place.  
The establishment or discontinuance of a temporary headquarters as  
provided for in Sectlon 5.05A1 not be considered as a change in  
an employee's regulary assigned headquarters as defined in  
Appendix A, Sections Al.04E, A2.04 and A4.04C.  
### B. OCCASIONAL MEALS  
Employees shall be granted meal allowances only in accordance with the  
following:  
1.  
Nine dotiars ($9.00) when a full-time employee works two (2) o7 mote  
consecutive hours in addition to working his or her regular shift/tour or  
a part-time employee works two (2) or more hours in addition to  
working the equivalent of a full-time shift/tour.  
An additional nine dollars ($9.00) will be paid when a _ full-time  
employee works six (6) ar more consecutive hours In addition fo  
working his or her regular shift/tour of a part-time employee works six  
(6) or More consecutive hours in addition to working the equivalent  
of a full-time shift/tour.  
59  
) Sectlon 5.05 EXPENSE ALLOWANCE (Continued)  
2  
3 3. Meals for which an allowance Is granted under this Section shall be  
4 eaten on the employee's own time. except where the supervisor  
5 determines that the employee cannot be released for a definite meal  
6 period. In such case the employee shall be granted a reasonable  
7 amount of time to sat on Company time.  
8  
9 4, There shall be no allowances granted for noonday luncheon expense.  
10  
11 5 A meal allowance will not be paid to an employee receiving pei  
12 diem o1 an allowance In [leu of per diem.  
13  
### 14 Cc. TRANSPORTATION  
15  
36 1. The Companies will elfher furnish alt means of transportation or specify  
7 what transportation shall be used for Company business and advance  
18 or refund the necessary fares.  
19  
20 2 Local carfareé or mileage, as determined by the Companles, to and  
2\ from work in excess of thal fequired by an employee for the  
22 normal assignment will be refunded. Travel time will be  
23 computed on the same basis except as provided for in. Section  
5.05A3. ae i Loom  
sO Te  
26 3 When local carfare during working hours is deemed necessary by the  
27 Companies. such carfore will be advanced or refunded to  
28 employees. Carfare in excess of the local fare will be advanced.  
29  
30 4 A personal automobile may be used for Company business or to  
3} facilitate transportation provided that:  
32  
33 Q. Such use ls authorized by a supervisor.  
34  
35 b, The employee agrees to such use of the employee's personal  
36 automobile.  
37  
38 c. Such shall be reimbursed at the Internal Revenue Service  
39 (IRS) relmbursement rate for mileage. [tn the event the IRS  
40 Increases the relmbursement rate for mileage, the Company will  
4) adjust the mileage relmbursement rate to the maximum  
42 allowable rate as soon as practical, not to exceed 60 days from  
43 the effective date of the increase.  
44  
45  
45  
47  
48  
49  
50  
5]  
52  
53  
54  
55  
56  
57  
### OONOABWH —  
Section 5.06 STANDBY PAY (For Pacific Bell Home Entertainment, see Appendix  
8, Section 82.05C) ~~  
A.  
### DEFINITION AND APPLIC ATION  
1.  
2.  
standby Is that time during which an off duty employee is scheduled  
to be available for call-outs.  
Part-time employees are not eligible for Standby pay.  
### ASSIGNMENT AND EMPLOYEE REQUIREMENTS  
  
The Companles will determine the need to establish Standby in a work  
group.  
The Companies will seek volunteers from the work group who are  
quallfied as recorded on the overtime list and may assign one or more  
volunteers within each work group, The Companles will rotate the  
designated Standby assignments among qualified employees.  
Scheduled Standby assignments will be posted of least one (1) week  
in advance. Assignments will Include the Standby hours and days.  
No changes in the scheduled Siandby assignments will be made  
without at least forty-eight (48) hours natification.  
Employees may be assigned for periods of duty as determined by  
local management and local union.: If no mutual agreement can be  
reached the Campanliles will determine the length of Standby  
assignment, not to exceed one (1) week.  
The employees assigned Standby will be avallable after normal hours  
or on non-scheduled days to report within one (1) hour fo a call-out  
from the duty supervisor and will be available for contact vio  
telephone or pager at all times during the perlod of duty.  
Assigned Standby employees who cannot be reached or who fall to  
respond to a pager, of other agreed upon method of  
communication, within a fifteen (15) minute time will not be  
eligible to recelve payment for the period of Standby coverage.  
If, during a Standby period, an employee becomes lil, or for some  
other reason cannot perform the scheduled Standby dufy, the  
employee is for notification of management as soon as  
possible. The employee will not receive Standby pay for that  
The Companies will follow the established overtime  
procedures when the scheduled Standby employee Is not avallabie  
for a call-out or when a special requirement to satisfy a customer  
need exists.  
Emptoyees who transfer or return Into the work group of any  
employee who subsequently wants to be added Into the Standby  
group, upon to the supervisor will be placed at the  
bottom of the Iist and be ellgible for normal ratation assignment  
effective with the next posted Standby schedule.  
61  
OOn oar  
Section 5.06 STANDBY PAY (Continued)  
10. Employees who.deslre to be removed from the Standby volunteers list  
shall give written notice fourteen (14) days to belng removed  
from the list.  
### Cc. COMPENSATION  
1. In addition to normal compensation for time worked during non-  
19 scheduled hours as a result of a call-out, those employees on Standby  
V1 will recelve a payment equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) hours pay at  
12 the regular hourly rate for each day on Standby.  
13  
14 2. Time spent on Standby, exclusive of call-outs, will not be considered  
16 hours worked, and pay received for Standby will be excluded from  
16 the regular rate of pay for purposes of caiculating overtime.  
17  
18 3. Standby pay amounts will not enter into computations of any  
i? payments under the Pacific Telesis Group Pian for Pensions, Disability  
20 Benefits, Savings and Death Benefits or any other benefits or  
21 differentiats,  
22  
: 93 < o™ we — 24 = . eo. - - Loe  
### ——-- - —---24-— —§Section-5,07--—PLAN FOR EMPLOYEES' PENSIONS, DISABILITY BENEFITS-AND DEATH —  
### 25 BENEFITS  
26  
27 A. Inthe event, during the ilife of this Contract, the desire to make  
28 a change in the Pacific Telesis Group Plans for Employees’ Pensions,  
29 Disability Benefits and Death Benefits which would affect the pensions,  
30 disabillty benefits and death benefits of employees within the bargaining  
31 units, they wil, before making a change, notify the Union and afford the  
32 Union a perod of sixty (60) calendar days for bargalning, provided,  
33 however, that no change may be made In the Plans which would reduce  
34 or diminish the pensions. disability benefits and death benefits provided  
35 thereunder, as they may apply to employees within the bargaining units,  
36 without consent of the Union.  
37  
38 Any claim that Section 5.07A of this Article has been viclated may be  
39 presented as a grievance and, If not resolved by the parties under thelr  
40 Problem Resolution Procedures, may be submitted to arbitration pursuant  
4] to the provisions of Article 7, but In such case any decision or action of the  
42 Companies shall be controlling unless shown to have been discriminatory or  
43 in bad faith, and only the question of discrimination of bad faith shall be  
44 subject to the grlevance procedure and arbitration. However, nothing in  
45 this Contract shall be construed to subject the Plan or lis administration to  
46 arbitration.  
47  
48  
49  
50  
51  
52  
53  
54  
56  
56  
57  
62  
ce wg se  
Oownwonr Wr —  
### ARTICLE 6  
### TIME OFF  
Section 6.01 Time off the job Is essential for the well being of employees. A  
Proper balance of work and time off contributes to increased productivity,  
creativity and Job satisfaction. Certain civic and personat obligations dictate  
that employees be granted time off. To assure that business needs are met,  
planned time off Is scheduled.  
A,  
Section 6.02 VACATION  
Vacation will be granted each vacation year to eligible employees tn  
proportion to years of service. For the vacation year 2001, change the  
definition of the “vacation year” from the calendar year to January I, 2007  
fo December 30, 200}. for the vacation year 2002 and subsequent  
vacation years, change the definition of the “vacation year" from the  
calendar year lo December 31 of the current year through December 30 of  
the following year. For example, the 2002 vacation year would be  
December 31, 20071 through December 30, 2002.  
1. Vacations are granted each year to Regular and Term, full-  
time or part-time. employees and Temporary employees hired prior to  
January 1, 1993 during thelt term of employment that began prior to  
January 1, 1993, as foliows:  
### NET CREDITED SERVICE VACATION TIME  
2 years. but less than 7 years 2 weeks  
(See Note 2)  
7 years, but less than 15 years 3 weeks  
(See Note 2)  
15 years, but tess than 25 years 4 weeks  
(See Note 2)  
25 years or more 5 weeks  
(See Note 2)  
Notes: 1. Employees who complete both six (6) months  
and one (1) year of service wifhin the same  
vacation year are entitled to two (2) weeks of  
vacation. The second week will be taken after  
the first anniversary.  
   
2. Vacations may be scheduled anytime during the  
vacation year in which the anniversary occurs,  
63  
OOnoanh OH —  
Section 6.02 VACATION (Continued)  
E.  
F,  
2. Ernployees who are hired or rehired into the Temporary classification  
on or after January 1, 1993, are eligible to one week of vacation after  
completing six months of service.  
### VACATION PAY - DETERMINATION OF STATUS  
Employees will receive vacation pay as a full-time orf part-time employee  
according to thelr employment status during the jast scheduled week  
Immediately preceding the first day of a vacation week.  
### VACATION PAY - FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES  
Full-time employees wilt be paid their basic weekly wage rate for each  
week of vacation. Pay for individual vacation days wil be one- fifth (1/5)  
of the weekly rate,  
### VACATION PAY - PART-TIME EMPLOYEES WHO ARE AS  
### DESCRIBED IN SECTION 4.03A1 (AS OF JANUARY 1, 1993)  
1. Part-time employees will be paid for full weeks of by  
averaging all hours during the piece’ quarter. This eyeraging!  
includes:  
a= mot - ~  
— —— —_—— == =  
pe — om  
— — —  
a, Hours worked up to a maximum of eight (8) a day.or forty (40) a  
week; and .  
b. Hours scheduled or assigned to be worked but excused, pald or  
unpaid.  
c. The total of a & b above will be Ilmited to aq maximum of eight  
(8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.  
2. Part-time employees will ba paid for Individual vacatlon days off  
equivalent to one-fifth (1/5) of fhe average workweek as  
above,  
### VACATION PAY - AS OF JANUARY 1, 1993 FOR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES WHO  
### ARE NOT "GRANDFATHERED® (AS DESCRIBED IN SECTION 4,03A2)  
1. Payment for full weeks of vacation will be an allowance equal to the  
employee’s average workweek, as defined In Section 4.03A2b or  
4.03A2c as spread over the five day vacation week.  
2. Payment for individual vacatlon days will be an allowance equal to  
one-fifth (1/5) of the employee's average workweek as defined in  
Section 4.03A2b or 4.03A2c as applicable. Payment will only be  
made if the Individual vacation day Is scheduled on a day when the  
employee would normally be scheduled to work.  
See Section 6.04D for pay treatment of employees who are temporarily  
shift-changed for vacation relief.  
—_— — =  
‘  
OAnNonnwn—  
Section 6.02 VACATION (Continued)  
G.  
An employee who Is absent for more than six (6) consecutive months due  
ta leave of absence or layoff will be eligible for vacation In any subsequent  
vacation year after returning to work and completing six (6) consecutive  
months of service,  
When the Companies deem it necessary, the Companies may. in senionty  
order, offer employees with scheduled vacation on the posted work  
schedule the opportunity to sall a full week(s) of individual vacation day(s)  
of his/her vacation back to the Companies.  
NOTE: The offer of pay In lleu of vacation shall be effective only if agreed  
to by the employee. The employee will teceive payment for the  
vacation time sold back to the Companles with the employees’s  
next regular paycheck for the pay period in which the vacation  
time was originally scheduled. A vacancy or open siot on the  
vacation schedule wili nat be created when an employee elects to  
sell his/her vacation under the circumstances described above.  
Section 6.03 HOLIDAYS  
Eight holidays will be observed.  
A.  
### THE AUTHORIZED HOLIDAYS ARE:  
New Year's Day, Presidents’ Day. Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor  
Day, Thanksglving Day, Friday after Thanksglving and Chilistmas Day.  
NOTE: Hollday tours are tours of duty starting on «a holiday. Holidays  
falling on Sunday will be observed on the following Monday.  
Holiday practices will apply.  
When a holiday occurs duling an vacation week, the  
employee will recelve an adaltional Personal Day Off at a later time. |  
### CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR'S EVE SPECIAL PAYMENTS  
Employees in Opsrator Services with titles of Central Office Associate,  
Operator, Service Assistant and Services Specialist will recelve:  
1. A speclal payment of six ($6.00) dollars for employees whose work  
terminates at or after 6:00 P.M, and not later than 7:59 P.M. on  
Christmas Eve and/or New Year's Eve.  
2. A special payment of eight ($8.00) dollars for employees whose work  
terminates at a: after 8:00 P.M. on Chilstmas Eve and/or New Year's  
Eve.  
### ASSIGNMENT OF HOLIDAY WORK  
For employees In Operator Services with titles of Central Office Associate,  
Operator, Service Assistant and Service Assistant-Bilingual :  
65  
Section 6.03 HOLIDAYS (Continued)  
]  
2  
3 1. All work on holidays wili be distributed among employees of an office  
4 by allowing them, on a rotational basis, to choose whether to work or  
5 not to work, except that the Companies may require the employees  
é to work as they deem necessary to meet the needs of the service.  
z  
8  
2. it will be the practica to allow trades between employees of  
9 assignments to work or not to work provided the trades are approved  
10 by management. The trades are limited to assignments for any one  
11 holiday.  
12  
### 13 E. PAY FOR HOLIDAYS NOT WORKED  
14  
15 1. lf employees work all of their scheduled tour Immediately before and  
16 after the holiday. or are excused by supervision, they will be paid as  
V7 follows:  
i8  
19 qa, Full-time employees will be paid one-fifth (1/5) of their basic  
20 weekly wage rote.  
2]  
22 b. Part-time employees who are “grandfathered” will be paid one-  
23 fifth (1/5) of thelr average of equivalent workweek" as covered In .  
ee ee eee SOCHION-6.02D. SS  
25  
2é oi All other part-time employees will be paid one-fifth (1/5) of thelr  
27 average workweek as defined in Sectlan 4.03A2. '  
28  
29 2, An employee who is scheduled to work on a holiday. but falls to  
30 report for work and Is unexcused will not be paid for the holiday.  
3]  
32 3. An employee who is scheduled to work on a holiday, but Is excused  
33 will be paid straight time for the holiday.  
34  
35 4. No pay will be given for holidays which occur:  
36  
37 a, During a leave of absence in excess of one (1) week, including  
38 holidays that occur during the fitst week of the leave.  
3?  
40 b. During a period of excused time off for Union activities In excess  
4] of one week, including holldays that occur during the first week  
42 of the absence.  
43  
44 Cc. After the seventh (7th) calendar day of other absences.  
45  
### 46 F, PAY FOR HOLIDAYS WORKED  
47  
45 1; Employees will be paid double time and one-half (2-1/2) for each  
49 hour worked on autharized halidays.  
Bn  
51 2. An employee who is not scheduled to work on a holiday, but who  
52 works wlthout 48 hours’ notice will be paid straight time for any part of  
53 normal tour not worked.  
54  
55 3. if empioyees work overtime on a holiday, they will be paid doubie  
54 time and one-half (2-1/2). Holiday payment and overtime payment  
§7 wilt not be made for the same time worked.  
66  
= am eae ene eo  
  
Section 6.04  
### PERSONAL DAYS OFF  
~  
Employees are allowed flexibility through the use of Personal Days Off to be  
absent with pay.  
A. Employees are eligible for Personal Days Off each vacation year according  
to the following:  
### NOTE:  
     
   
     
     
      
More Than Six (6)  
Months' Service:  
Maximum Number of  
Personal Days Off  
    
   
    
    
    
    
Regular Employees  
Tamporary Employees  
Occaslonai Employees  
Part-time employees who are “grandfathered” will be paid for  
individual Personal Days Off equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the  
average or equivalent workweek as covered In Section 6.0202.  
Aff ofher part-time employees will be paid for individual Personal  
Doys Off equal to one-fifth (1/5) of the average workweek as  
defined in Section 4.03A2.  
B. Effective Apri/ 1, 2001, aff Personal Days Off may be taken In two (2) hour  
increments and will be granted as deemed practicable by management.  
Cc. If employees agree ta work on a pald Personal Day Off they may choose  
one of the following options:  
1. Reschedule the Personal Day Off and work as though it were a  
normal scheduled day; or  
2. Work the day and be guaranteed sight (8) hours’ pay at straight time,  
as weli as one and one-half (1 1/2} hours’ pay for each hour actually  
worked. The Personal Day Off may not be rescheduled if the  
employee chooses this option.  
### D. PERSONAL DAY OFF, JURY DUTY AND VACATION RELIEF  
When an employee in other than Operator Services has a regular shift (not  
tour) temparanly changed for vacation, fury dufy o1 Personal Day Off rellef,  
the employee will be paid as follows:  
1, An employee who is receiving a shift differential and who is  
temporarlly assigned to a day shift will retain the differential but be  
paid at straight time.  
67  
Oon oma  
Section 6.04 PERSONAL DAYS OFF (Continued)  
2. An employee temporarily assigned to an evening or night shift will  
recelve the appropriate shift differential, and be paid at straight time.  
### Section 6.05 AND PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS  
The Companles will continue to provide time away from work to enable  
employees to meet civic and personal obligations.  
### A. PAD TIME OFF WILL INCLUDE:  
hi Time spent on obligatory jury duty. When Jury duty ends qa reasonable  
time before the end of scheduled working hours, an employee who  
would be working except for jury duty will return to work.  
An employee ’s hours of work will be changed to coincide with the  
obligatory jury duty assignment. When an employee’s shift/tour és  
femporarily tescheduled for this purpose. no premium will be paid for  
the shift/four change. fhe employee will refain his/her shiff  
differential.  
_..—  «. --WOTE; See Section 6.04D-for proper pay treatment of an employer  
femporarily rescheduled for jury duty  
2. Time off to vote in accordance with, and if required by, the provisions  
of applicable State laws.  
3. A period of time which is reasonable and warranted due to a death  
in an employee’s immediate family or household.  
Immediate family includes the employee's parents, stepparents,  
adopilve parents, children, stepchildren or adopted children, brothers  
or stepbrothers, sisters or stepsisters, husband or wife, grandparents,  
grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, as well as any other  
persons living generally in the same household.  
B. Unpaid time off will include approved leaves of absence. A leave of  
absence for personal reasons is a privilege which may be granted to  
employees rather than a iilght to which they are entitled. Granting a leave  
of absence for a period of over thirty (30) days does not guarantee the  
employee will be given a position when the leave explres unless agreed to  
In writing at the time the leave Is granted.  
### Section 6.06 PLANNED TIME OFF  
The scheduling of planned time oft will be In seniority order within individual work  
groups. It is the intent of the parties that employees’ selections will be granted to  
the extent practicable consistent with force requirements and the needs of the  
service, |  
A. Scheduling of planned time off will bs administered by seniority as follows:  
Is Vacation - full week  
2. Vacation/Personal Day Off - day-at-a-time  
3. Paid Personal Doy Off - two (2) hour increments  
68  
Section 6.06 PLANNED TIME OFF (Continued)  
Vacation will be prepared by the Companles for each o¢cupa-  
tional and administrative unit except as provided in Section 6.06B1. The  
selection of vacation dates within each schedule will 56 on the basis of net  
credited service as shown by the records of the Companies, except as  
provided elsewhere In this Section or unless ofherwise agreed to.  
1. Prior to the preparation of vacation schedules for any vecasfon year,  
the district level representative of the will meet with the  
President and his or her designated representative of the Union Local  
involved to discuss the approprlate employee groups, comprising the  
employees within the district level's jurisdiction, for which such  
schedules shall be prepared. In the event of failure to reach  
agreement, final determination of the appropriate employee groups  
be made by the Department Head or the Department Head's  
authorized representative.  
2. Each employee In the bargaining unit defined in Appendix A, Section  
A2.01, except Operations Administrator, Data Administrator, Nevada  
employees and In other bargaining units as agreed to by the parties,  
will have a first choice before anyone who spiits thelr vacation makes  
a second cholce. Employees detailed to work away from  
headquarters will at thelr request be returned to their headquarters at  
the Companleés' expense for one vacation period only, during each  
vacation year.  
3, An employee transferred at management direction will retain any  
vacation period(s) previously scheduled and approved,  
4. When an employee-initiated transfer occurs, management will  
endeavor to accommodate previously scheduled vacation periods  
within the vacation schedule of the employee's new work group, due  
regard being given to the needs of the service and the individual  
circumstances of seach case.  
Vacation relief assignments for employees listed in Appendix A, Sections  
A1.01, A2.01 and Appendix B, will be posted at ihe time work scheduié6s are  
posted. This procedure will not apply to rellef assignments for day-at-a-  
time vacations.  
Prior to the beginning of the vaeation year, management will canvass the  
work group to allow the employees to select vacation and Personal Days  
off from available dates. The period durlng which vacation and Personal  
Days Off can be chosen by seniority tights wih cover the 15 months from  
December of the cunent year through March of the subsequent  
vacation year.  
Requests to reschedule Personal Days Off will be made with normally not  
lass than 48 hours’ notice. The rescheduting is sublect to management  
approval.  
Requests for a paid Personal Day Off in two (2) hour Increments may be  
requested by the employee, as needed, and will be granted to the extent  
practicable consistent with force requirements and needs of the service.  
69  
aa eae eee  
  
57  
Sectlon 6.06 PLANNED TIME OFF (Continued)  
G.  
— _  
lt is recommended that all employees take at Isast 10 days off  
(vacation/Personal Days Off) in the vacation year earned for the sake of  
their well being.  
No work will be scheduled on a vacation day or Personal Day Off. A  
vacation week Is a calendar wesk, Sunday through Saturday. When an  
employee's vacation period spans a full week, no work will be scheduled  
the Saturday prior to, or Sunday following, the vacation week.  
Effective December 37, 2001, ali vacation may be taken In Inctements of  
less than a full week.  
A vacation week of the new year may begin on Sunday of the same week  
in which December 37 falls on or before Wednesday.  
Vacation weeks and Personal Days Off over from the previous  
vacation year through March 31 of the subsequent vacation year have  
precedence over selection of current year Time Off only in the first three (3)  
months of the vacetion year. Any Time Off carled over from one vacation  
year to the next and not taken by the last day of March will be secondary  
in terms of scheduling to the selection of time off for the current veeation  
year. .  
io —  
ww: oo  
- = ~~  
——_— -—- o-  
_ _ _  
—  
-—— -  
_-  
— —  
Payment will be made in of all vacation and Personal Days Off carried  
over from the previous vacation year which are not taken by December 3?  
of the following vacation year,  
The Companies will not pay any expenses including per diern and lodging  
Incurred by employees when they take individual vacation days or  
Personal Days Off while working at a non-commutable temporary work  
location.  
When employees return to work from sickness or accident disability, and  
they have not taken all vacation and/or Personal Days Off for which  
eligible for the vacafion year, they may take whatever can be  
accommodated within the remainder of the current vecation year through  
the end of the next vacation year. Ilme off carled over from the previous  
year, and taken during the fitst quarter of the next vacation year  
under this provision will take precedence over vacation selection for the  
current vacation year, but will bs secondary to vacation carled over  
under the provisions of Section 6.06K.  
Employees going on a leave of absence may receive pay In lieu of  
vacation they are eligible to receive or take the upon their return.  
Should the employee return during the same 24 month period In which  
time off can be taken, he or she will receive whatever vacation and  
Personal Oays Off that can be accommodated during the remainder of the  
period. Payment will be made in lieu of any time off not used.  
70  
& @Whs =~  
Section 6.06 PLANNED TIME OFF (Continued)  
--  
### OQ.  
_  
Individuals leaving the employ of the Company shall recelve payment In  
fiau of vacation and Personal Days Off to which they are eligible provided  
they have worked the vecetion year and have not had alf of the  
vacation and Personal Days Off to which they are eligible during such  
period. fhis includes pro-rata payment of earned vacation for those  
employees who terminate with less than one year of service.  
For purposes of tracking or making payment in lieu of vacation or Personal  
Days Off. all tlme off earned in the previous vacafion year must be taken  
before any time off for the current vacation year can be taken. For  
scheduling purposes, all other Paragraphs in thts Section, 6.06, shall apply.  
71  
### NOTES  
  
|  
|  
|  
|  
72  
cS &  
### ARTICLE 7  
### PROBLEM RESOLUTION PROCEDURES  
section 7.01 The Companies and the Unian agree that timely interaction on  
Issues can eliminate the cause for most While management  
maintains the right and responsibility to make decisions which affect the  
business, the parties will endeavor to jointly evaluate and plan proposed actions  
that affect the employees, the Union and the Companies.  
### Section 7.02 REQUEST FOR UNION REPRESENTATION  
The Companies shall release the Union representatives who are  
by the Problem Resolution Procedures.  
A. At any mesiing between a management iepresentative and an employes  
In which a formal levei of discipline is to be announced, oF an investigatory  
Interview where the employee may have a reasonable basis to expect that  
disciplinary action may result, a Union representative shail be present, if the  
employee requests.  
1, Thé employee shall be informed of the subject of the meeting at any  
formal level of discipline of Investigatory Interview prior to the  
meeting.  
2. The Unlon representative and the employee shail be allowed a  
reasonable period of time to consult prior to the meeting, !f  
requested.  
### Section 7.03 COMMUNICATION AND PROBLEM SOLVING  
We must Initiate cammunication to prevent problems as mast problems can be  
prevented through timely, open and honest communication.  
A. When operational changes are being considered in a work area that will  
significantly affect the working conditions of ons or more employees, the  
manager will communicate these changes and the reasons for  
them to the appropriate Union representative and solicit any input to  
improve the effectiveness for all concemed. This communication will  
generally occur not less fhan ten (10) calendar days in advance of the  
effective date of such anticipated changes. in matters requiring  
immediate implementation, fhe minimum time frame shail not appiy. in  
these cases, communication and solicitation for input from the Union will be  
af the earliest practical opportunity. Subsequently. where  
agreement Is reached, communication to the employees will be  
conducted jointly by the manager and the Union iepresentative. s/n aff  
cases, communication to the affected employees will nof occur prior to 2  
discussion with the appropriate Union representative.  
B. When an employee Is trending toward disciplinary action for job  
performance, for example attendance, quality, quanilty, efc.,  
management will normally involve the Unlon and solicit its input and  
assistance. The manager and the Union representative will work jointly to  
identify and ellminate the cause of the employee's problem to prevent it  
from recurring.  
73  
   
### OOnN OAR WH —  
### Section 7.03 COMMUNICATION AND PROBLEM SOLVING (Continued)  
Cc, Whenda Union representative Identifies an issue or dispute in the work area,  
he or she will interact with the appropiate manager In the work area. An  
effort should be made by both parties to resolve the problem.  
### section 7.04 UNION PRESENTATION  
The grievance procedure is designed to provide a timely, energy effective way  
of insuring equality and falrness In resolving disputes which have not been  
resolved through informal efforts. The Companies and the Unlon agree that it is  
their objective to resatve all gilevances at the lowest level.  
The presentation of a grievance must be made in wiiting as described in Section  
7,05Cla and In accordance with the time limitations specified below tc be  
eligible for handling under the provisions of Sections 7.05 and 7.09:  
A. Gilavances concerning the impact of new. changed or deleted methods  
and/or procedures Intended for depastment-wide application must be  
presented within sixty (60) catendar days of the date of the  
notification to the Union of their intent to take such action of, within thirty  
~ (30) calendar days from. the occurrence that on employee is affected by  
__._.. the change. whichever date jis-later..-.-___ -— - . ec  
8. All other gilevances must be presented within thirty (30) calendar days  
from the first occurrence of the action or within thirty (30) calendar days  
from the date of discovery.  
### section 7.05 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
In keeping with the Companies’ and the Union’s objective to resolve all  
grievances at the lowes? level, an employee may present his or her griavance to  
a Union representative who will process it according to the following:  
A. A grlevance involving the dismissal of any Regular or Term employes ora  
gilevance Involving disciptinary action other than dismissal of any  
empioyee will be presented as follows: .  
step | - To the employee's immediate supervisor or, if appropriate, the  
manager who took the action. Two (2} paid representatives  
designated by the Local may attend this meeting. if the grievance Is  
not it will be referred to:  
2. Step || - District Level Manager {or equivalent title/skip level  
organizations). Three (3) paid Union representatives designated by .  
the Local may attend this meeting to attempt to resolve the  
gilevance. Only grievances involving the dismissal of a Regular of  
Term employee, which are not resolved, will be referred to Step ill.  
NOTE: The Step Il meeting regarding any grievance may be  
omitted by mutual agreement.  
74  
—_  
—  
—  
wh  
14  
Sectlon 7.05 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (Continued)  
   
Cc.  
3.  
Step Ili - (Dismissal grievances only) Department AVP (er equivalent  
tiile/skip level organizations) and Local President or either of their  
designated representatives. Two (2) pald Union representatives  
designated by the Local may attend this meeting to attempt to  
resolve the grievance.  
NOTE: If the Step Il meeting regarding the dismissal of a Regular or  
Term employee has been omitted, a maximum of three (3)  
paid Union representatives designated by the Local may  
attend the Step Ill meeting.  
A grievance involving matters other thon discipline wit! be presented as  
follows:  
1,  
Step  
1,  
step | - To the manager who approved the action. Two (2) paid Union  
representatives designated by the Local may attend this meeting. If  
the grievance is not resolved, it will be referred to:  
step Il - The next level of management above the manager who  
heard the grievance at Step | (no lower than District Level or higher  
than Vice President of equivalent title/skip level  
organizations} and Local President or elthe: of their designated  
representatives. Three (3) paid Union representatives designated by  
the Local may attend thls meeting to attempt to resolve the  
grievance.  
| Grievances will be processed according to the following method:  
Prior to the Step | Meeting  
qa. The Union's wriiten presentation of the grievance to  
management will include the nature of the gilevance: the date  
of the occurence; the contractual article/section alleged to  
have been violated. if applicable, or if not applicable, the  
source of the alleged violation MOA name or number,  
discipline, documentation}: the name of the grievant: and the  
remedy sought. Presentation must be made In accordance  
with the time limits stated in Section 7.04,  
b. Management will provide the Union with any Information and/or  
reasons used as a basis for the grleved action no later than ten  
(10} calendar days following presentation of the grievance. This  
ta share information and/or reasons for the grieved  
action applies whether or not a Step i meeting ts held.  
Holding the Step | Meeting  
a. Managemen? will hold the meeting within fifteen (15) calendar  
days following presentation of a grievance.  
   
Section 7.05 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (Continued)  
b.  B8oth parties should make every effort fo ensure that a Step i  
meeting is heid. However, in those circumstances where a Sfap  
f meeting |s not held within fifteen (15) calendar days, as stated  
in Section 7.05C20 and no mutual agreement to extend the time  
limit is reached, or where there is mutual agreement to omit the  
Step i meeting, the grievance shall be considered denied by  
management and will then be escalated to Step Il of the  
Grievance Procedure.  
NOTE: if the Step | meeting Is not held, management Is required  
to provide the information specified in Section 7.05C Ib.  
3. Foltowing the Step | Meeting  
qd. Management will inform the Union of the Company's pasition  
and rationale at the conclusion of the Step | meeting.  
D. Step Il grievances will be processed according to the following method:  
1. Prior to the Step Il Meeting  
a. The Union will notify the_ Company In. writing... of “its. Intent. 40. ——  
“escalate the grievance to Step il within thirty (30) calendar days  
fotlowing the Step | meeting, or the date when the Step |  
meeting shouid have been held as stated in Section 7.05C2a.  
= © —  
b. The Union's failure fo notify the Company, of lis Intent to  
escalate the grievance, within the time limit stated in Section  
will result in the grievance belng consideied withdrawn  
from ihe Grievance Proceduie.  
Zs Holding the Step Il Meeting  
a. Management will hotd the Step Il grievance meeting within thirty  
(30) calendar days of receipt of the Union's wiitten Intent to  
escalate the gilevance.  
b. Failure to hold the Step Il meeting within the time limit stated in  
Section 7,05D2a, of when no mutual agreement to extend the  
date has been reached, will result in the grevance belng  
deemed as settled in favor of the Union. However, the  
seitiement cannot exceed what an arbitrator would have  
awatded under Sections 7.12 ond 7.14.  
3. Foltowing the Step Il Meeting  
a. Management will send the Step li Company position to the  
Union and the appropriate Labor Relations Dlrector, in  
accordance with Section 7.07, at the final disposition of the  
Step tl meeting for grlevances Involving Issues other than  
dismissal.  
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
13  
12  
13  
14  
16  
16  
17  
18  
9  
20  
21  
22  
23  
24  
25  
26  
27  
28  
29  
30  
31  
32  
33  
34  
35  
3  
37  
38  
39  
40  
4\  
42  
43  
44  
45  
46  
47  
48  
a9  
50  
51  
52  
53  
54  
55 b. Management will inform the Union of the Company's position  
56 and rationale at the conclusion of all Step Il meetings involving  
57 dismissal grievances.  
76  
ew ees  
49  
5]  
52  
oo  
54  
55  
56  
57  
section 7.05 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (Continued)  
   
E.  
Step Ill grievances (DISMISSAL GRIEVANCES ONLY) will be processed  
to the foltowing method:  
1. to the Step til Meeting  
Q. The Union will notify the Company in writing of Its Intant to  
escalate the grievance to Step Ill within thirty (30) caftendar days  
following the finat disposition of the Step Il meeting or the date It  
was mutually agreed to omit the Step Il meeting.  
b. The Union's failure to notify the Company of its intent to escalate  
the grievance, within the time Ilmits stated in Section  
will result in fhe grievance belng considered withdrawn from the  
Grievance Procedure.  
2. Holding the Step Ill Meeting  
a. Management will hold the Step fll grievance meeting within  
thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the Union's written intent  
to ascatote the grievance.  
b. Failure to hold the Step Ili meeting within the time Iimit stated in  
Section 7.05E2a of when no mutual agreement to extend the  
date has been reached, will resulf in the grlevance being  
desmed as settled in favor of the Unlon. However, the  
settlement cannot exceed what an arbitrator would have  
awarded under Sections 7,12 and 7.14.  
3. the Step Il) Meeting  
Management will send the Step Ill Company position to the Union and  
the appropilate tabor Relations Difector in accordance with  
section 7.07.  
Pending finat settlement of the grievance, the Companies sholl not  
thereafter deal directly with the employee concerning sald gilevance  
without Union concurrence, but shall deal directly with the Union  
representative, \  
### Section 7.06 SHARING INFORMATION  
   
A.  
During the Step 1 meeting, the Companiss and the Union whit identify  
appropriate areas of cancern. During Step | and Step Il meetings, the  
Companies and the Union will share facts deemed relevant to the  
gtlevance by either party.  
Disputes over relevancy of information and photocopies will be resolved as  
foltows;  
1. The request should be presented In wilting to the manager. lf the  
dispute Is not resolved at this teve) within seven (7) calendar days, it  
shall be referred to:  
77  
i QO & &© & G Ww AD AO FO AD £O AD PO 8S ND A Oe eS ee oe es et —  
  
57  
Section 7.06  
### SHARING INFORMATION (Continued)  
2. The Local Union Officer and Distict Manager level. if not resolved at  
this level within seven (7) calendar days, it shalt be referred to:  
3. The Natlonal Union Representative and Labor Relations Director level.  
lf not resolved at this level within seven (7) calendar days, the Unton  
may elect to:  
4, Arbitrate the issue under the provision of Section 7.10.  
The Componies reserve the tight to charge the Union for the cost of the  
photocopies including the wages of the operator of the copying  
equipment in the event the volume of requests become substantial.  
### Section 7.07 COMPANY POSITION  
Tne Step Il or Step Ill  
Campany position (as described in 7,05D3 and 7.05€3}  
shall be sent by certified mail fo the National and Local Union in writing within  
five (5) calendar days of the final Step Il or Step Ill grievance meeting. A copy  
will also be sent to the appropriate Labor Relations Director.  
-_ == _—_ -  
### $6ction 7:08 UNRESOLVED UNION PRESENTED GRIEVANCES  
Any gilevance not resolved under Subsections 7.05A and B may be taken to  
arbitratlon under the provisions of Sections 7.10 or 7.15.  
Section 7.09  
A.  
### EMPLOYEE PRESENTATION  
An employes may present his or her gllevance to the employee's  
Immediate supervisor within thitty (30)  
calendar days from the first  
occurrence, and to other successive levels of management up to and  
Including the Department Manager {or authorized rapresentative) as moy  
be required to resolve the grievance without Unlon intervention.  
B. The resolution of an employee grievance may not be Inconsistent with the  
terms of this Contract. A Union representative will be given an opportunity  
to be present at the resolution of any employee concerning the  
interpretation or application of the terms of this Contract.  
### Section 7.10 ARBITRATION PROCEDURES  
Arbitration cases should be minimal due to effective use of the Problem  
Resolution Procedures. Arbitration should result In timely awards.  
A.  
If the Union Is not satisfied with the decision at the final  
meeting In the grievance procedure, the Unlon may request that the  
grlevance be arbitrated.  
78  
B,  
Section 7.10 ARBITRATION PROCEDURES (Continued)  
Any Regular or Term employee dismissed for just cause may have his or her  
case considered under the Arbitration Procedures. However, the question  
as to whether a Regular or Term employee with less than twelve (12)  
months' net credited service was dismissed without just cause will not be  
eligible for arbitration.  
The National Union will notify the Labor Relations Director, in writing, of its  
desire to meet on the gilevance within (35) calendar days of  
receipt of the Step tl or Step Ill Company position letter as described In  
Section 7.07 above. The meeting between Labor Relations and the  
National Union will be held within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of  
the written notice. The National Union may elect to walve this  
meeting and. within the same thirty-five (35) calendar day time Ilmit, notify  
the Companies of Its Intention to arbitrate the gilevance as specified In  
7.100 below. If the Unlon fails to send either written notice within the time  
limit stated (35 calendar days), and no mutual agreement to extend the  
time Jimit has been reached, the grievance will be considered withdrawn  
from the grievance process.  
The Labor Relations Director. or designated representative, will send the  
final Company position letter to the National Union within five (5) calendar  
days of the National Union/Labor Relations meeting. Within thirty (30)  
calendar days following the Netlonal Union's receipt of the Companies'  
final position tetter, as described in this Section 7.10D. the Union will notify  
the Companies in writing of Its Intention to arbitrate the grievance. This  
notice will specify the Issues involved in the grievance and remedy  
requested. specifically it will clarify the Union’s original written  
presentation of the to management. This will define  
the nature of the grievance; the date of the occurrence; the contractual  
article/section alleged to have been viciated, If applicable, or if not  
applicable, the source of the alleged violation (e.g.,. MOA name or  
number, discipline, documentation): the name of the grievant; and the  
remedy for the purposes of arbitration, expedited arbitration and  
mediation.  
lf the Union does not notify the Companiss in weiting of Its intention to  
arbitrate the grievance within the time limit stated {30 calendar days), and  
no mutual agreement to extend the time limit has baen reached, the  
grlevance will be considered withdrawn from the grievance process.  
The first day of the arbitration hearing will be held within six (6) months from  
the date of the Union's notification in writing of its intent to arbitrate the  
gidevance. If the arbitration request Involves an employee's dismissal and  
the six (6) month time limit is exceeded, the perlod used for computation of  
any back pay liability for the Company shall not exceed a date six (4)  
months from the date of the Unian's notification of intent to arbitrate the  
dismissal issue, except when the time limit has been extended by mutual  
agreement.  
79  
### 1 7.11 ARBITRATOR  
2  
3 A. A panel of arbitrators shall be established by the partles for hearing  
4 expedited and regular arbitration cases. Upon recelpt of the Union's intent  
5 to arbitrate, each case will be automaticaliy assigned to an available  
6 arbitrator, The first case so heard under this procedure shalt be assigned to  
7 the arbitrator appearing first on the panel. Subsequent arbitration requests  
8 shall be assigned ta ofher arbitrators In the order of their sequential  
9 assignment to the panel. If an arbitrator notifies the partles that he or she |s  
10 unable to accept a case. it will be referred to the next arbitrator on the  
11 panel,  
12  
13 Whenever any arbitrator's pending arbitration requests exceed three,  
14 additional requests which would otherwise Se assigned to him or her In the  
15 order of rotation shall be referred to the next arbitrator on the panel.  
16  
17 Cc, Alleligible grievances shall be handled as follows:  
18  
19 1. Request from the aibitrator, at the tlhe of appoiniment, two or thres  
20 proposed alternative hearing dates for hearng days within six (6)  
21 months from the date of the Unton’s notification of its intent to  
22 arbitrate. If the arbitrator cannot provide a hearing date within the  
23 six month time frames, the parties shall proceed. through the  
24 remaining arbitrators, in order of appearance.,_until .a_hearting  
- --- 77 77 "> edn bé6 scheduled In accordance with the time limits of this Section.  
26  
27 2, the designated representatives of the Companies and of the Union  
28 shall promptly agree on a hearing date, secure a firm commitment on  
29 the hearng date from the arbitrator and schedule the hearing tn  
30 accordance with regular procedures.  
3)  
32 3. If the parties can't agree on a proposed date, then the arbitrator  
33 shall schedule a hearing date within the six (6} month time frame.  
34  
35 D. Grievances involving the suspension of an Individual employee or a  
38 gilevance involving the dismissal of a Regular or Term amployee may be  
37 handled in accordance with the Expedited Arbitration provisions of Section  
38 7.15 by mutual agreement of the Labor Relations Director and the  
39 designated representative of the National Union, except for those which  
40 also involve an Issue of arbitrability, Contract interpretation, or work  
4] stoppage (strike) activity and those which are also the subject of an  
42 administrative charge or court actions.  
43  
44  
### 45 Section 7.12 POWER OF THE ARBITRATOR  
46  
47 A. The Arbitrator has no authority to add to, subtract from, or otherwise modify  
48 the provisions of the Contract.  
49  
50 B tf the Arbitrator finds that a dismissal was made without Just cause, the  
§] Arbitrator will either:  
§2  
63 1. Relnstate the employse with back pay computed in accordance with  
54 Section 7.14 as limited by Section 7.10& or  
55  
56  
57  
80  
OG WY @® & & HH NN NY aed ed oe ot oe od at od  
   
Section 7.12 POWER OF THE ARBITRATOR (Continued)  
= =  
2. Reduce the dismissal to a suspension and relnstate the employee  
without back pay for the period of suspension set by the Arbitrator as  
limited by Section 7.10€.  
### Section 7.13 ARBITRATOR'S DECISION  
A.  
Except as provided In Expedited Arbitration, Sectlon 7.15, the Arbitrator will  
render a within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the matter  
Is submitted.  
All decisions within the power of the Arbitrator will be final and binding on  
all parties.  
Decisions rendered under the provisions of Expedited Arbitration, Section  
7.15, will not constitute a precedent for other cases or gilevances and may  
not be cited or used as a precedent In other arbitration matters between  
the parties.  
### Section 7.14 EFFECT OF RESOLUTION  
A,  
Where employees are reinstated with back pay, the employees will receive  
their regular rate of pay for the time tost, but not for suspension time under  
Section 7,12B2 as limited by Sectlon 7.10& They will also receive  
reimbursement for any actual expenses incurred and paid by the  
employees dulng the perlod of dismissal which would have normatly been  
paid by the Companies’ Medical, Dental, or Vision Plans. Amounts paid to  
employees will be reduced by an amount equal to the totat of the  
termination of tayoff allowance recsived from the Companies at the time  
of dismissal, and any wages earned in other emptoyment. Pacific Bell  
employees will be liable to the State of Callfornia, Employment  
Development Department for overpayment of unemployment benefits  
received since date of dismissal. Nevada Bell employees will likewise be  
llable to the State of Nevada, Employment Security Department for such  
overpayments.  
in the event a gievance is arbitrated under the provisions of Expedited  
Arbitration, Section 7.15, any awarded back pay liability shall be computed  
in accordance with the provisions as expressed in Sections 7.1281 and  
7.1282, as limited by Section 7.104.  
### Section 7.15 EXPEDITED ARBITRATION PROCEDURE  
The procedure for Expedited Arbitration will be as follows:  
A,  
A written stipulation of all facts not In dispute may be submitted to the  
Arbitrator prior to the hearing.  
The hearing will be Informal without rules of evidence and without a.  
transcript. However, the Arbitrator will satisfy himself or herself that the  
evidence submitted Is of a type on which he or she can rely, that the  
hearing is fair in all respects and that all facts necessary to a fair settlement  
and reasonably obtainable are brought before the Arbitrator.  
$l  
Don oonh @©N—  
### EXPEDITED ARBITRATION PROCEDURE (Continued)  
C. Each party may submit a brief surnmary of the issues raised at the  
hearing and arguments supporting Its position within five (5) working days  
after the hearing.  
D. The Arbitrator will render his or her decision within five (5) working days  
after receiving the briefs, He or she will provide the parties a brief written  
statement of the reasons supporting the decision.  
### Section 7.16 ARBITRATION EXPENSES  
The compensation and expenses of the Arbitrator and the general expenses of  
the arbitration will be borne by the Companies and the Union in equal parts.  
Each party will bear the expense of its representatives and witnesses.  
Section 7.17 TIME LIMITS  
The time peilods specified In the gnevance and arbitration procedures will be  
calendar days except for Sectlon 7.15 and may be extended by mutual  
agreement.  
—_  
— —_—  
—_— —_ eae -_ ==  
on —  
- - = ~  
-_-  
Section 7.18 MEDIATION  
A. <A grievance that has been appealed to arbitration In accordance with  
7.10 may be presented at a mediation conference before it is  
scheduled for arbitration, except when either party requests that mediation  
be bypassed.  
B, Within six (6) months of the Union's request for arbitration, the parties wilt  
schedule a mediation conference to be held at the earllest avallable date  
of a mediator mutually agresable to both parties. The mediation  
conference will normally be held in either a Company or Union facility.  
Should the avallability of a mediator unnecessarlly delay the processing of  
the grievance in the opinion of elther party. elther party may request that  
the mediation step be bypassed and the grlevance be scheduled far  
arbitration.  
C, The spokesperson for the Company will normally be a Staff Manager -  
Labor Relations. An Area Representative - Communications Workers of  
America will normally represent the Union. An attorney will not be used by  
elther party at the mediation conference. The number of employees who  
shall suffer no loss In pay under Article 3, Section 3.02 of the Contract shall  
be no more than two (2). Should additional employees be necessary for  
the complete discovery of facts at the conferance, the parties will agree in  
advance on the number of addiflonalt employees who will attend the  
conference and suffer no loss In pay under Section 3.02.  
D. The representatives of the parties are encouraged, but not requited toa  
present the mediator with o brief written statement of the facts, the issue  
and the aiguments In support of their respective positions. If such  
statement Is not presented in written form, it shall be presented orally at the  
beginning of the mediation conference.  
$2  
### OOnN oO HA WH —  
E.  
section 7.18 (Continued)  
— ~  
The mediation conference will normaly be attended by the grievant, the  
Local President, the grievant's supervisor and District Level Manager.  
Attendance at the mediation conference shall be timited to those people  
actually Involved in the mediation conference.  
All wrften moterial that is presented to the mediator or to the other party  
shall be returned to the party presenting the material at the termination of  
the mediation conference. The mediator may. however, retain one copy  
of the written grevance. to be used salely for purposes of statistical.  
analysis.  
Proceedings before the mediator shall be Informal In nature. The  
presentation of evidence js noi limited to that which has been presented In  
the grlevance proceedings. However, the issue mediated will be the same  
as the Issue the parties have tried to resolve through the grievance  
process. The mules of evidence will not apply, and no record of the  
mediation conference shall be made.  
the will have the authorty to meet separately with Company or  
Union representatives, buf will nof have the authority to campel the  
resolution of a grievance.  
the Company and Unlon spokespersons at the mediation conference may  
accept the resolution proposed by the mediator and such settlement or  
any other settlement resulting from the conference shall not be precedent-  
setting for other cases or grievances and may not be cited in any other  
proceeding between the parties. If no settlement is reached during the  
mediation conference, the mediator shall provide the parities with an  
Immediate oral advisory opinion, untess both partles agree that no opinion  
shall be provided. The mediator shall state the grounds of his or her  
advisory opinion.  
If no is reached at the mediation conference, the grievance will  
be heard In arbitration in accordance with provisions expressed In Section  
7.10. Such hearing will be held within six (6) months of the date of fhe  
mediation hearmlng. In the event that a grevance which has been  
mediated subsequently Is arbitrated, no person serving as a mediator  
between these parties may serve as arbitrator. Nothing said or done by  
the mediator may be referred to at arbitration. Any settlement proposal  
made by elther party at the mediation conference shall not be referred to  
at the arbitration hearing.  
The mediator shall conduct no more than three (3) mediation conferences  
per day. The fee and reasonable expenses of the mediator will be shared  
equally by the parties.  
In the event that the mediation of a grievance Is scheduled, and then  
postponed or canceled, the parties shall remain liable for the fee specified  
in Section 7.18K, unless another Is substituted for that grlevance  
postponed or canceled.  
83  
### WAN —  
Section 7.19 DISMISSALS  
A.  
The Companies agree that no employee will be dismissed without a full and  
complete investigation by department supervision. The Compoanles  
recognize the tight of the Union to assist an employes who has been  
suspended pending investigation, o1 who has been given notice of  
dismissal, or who has been dismissed, in presenting and/or appealing the  
employee's case to the Companies.  
When It is necessary to dismiss an employee. the employee must be pald in  
full Immediately for all time due. Every employee who Is dismissed will be  
paid at the place of dismissal.  
eee ee eee ee ee Cie - Be ee oe  
84  
a eee ee  
Oanogakah —  
### ARTICLE 8  
— a  
### LAYOFFS  
Section 8.01 LAYOFFS (For Pacific Bell Home Entertainment, see Appendix B,  
Section  
A.  
The National Union will be notified in writing in the event that either  
Company deems It necessary to lay off Regular employees due to a  
change that will materially alter that Company's Bustness Plan  
achievement, as described in Article 2, Employment Security, 2.01.  
Employees who are still surplus after having been given the opportunity to  
accept reassignment as described In the Force Movement process will be  
laid off in Inverse seniorlty order of net credited service.  
Regular employees who are faid off will be pald a layoff allowance  
determined as to amount by thelr net credited service and basic weekly  
wage rate at the time of leaving the service, in accordance with the table  
below:  
### YEARS OF NUMBER OF WEEKS AT  
### NET CREDITED SERVICE CURRENT BASIC WAGE RATE*  
Léss than & months 0  
& months but less than 2 years 1  
2 years than 3 years 2  
3 years but less than 4 years 3  
4 years but less than 5 years 4  
5 years but less than 6 years é  
6 years but less than 7 years 8  
7 years butless than 8 years 1G  
8 years but less than 9 years 12  
9 years but less than 10 years 16  
10 years but less than i] years 20  
11 years but less than 12 years 24  
12 years but less than 13 years 28  
13 years but less than 14 years 32  
14 years but less than 15 years 36  
15 years but less than 16 years 40  
16 years but less than 17 years 44  
17 years but less than 18 years 48  
18 years but less than 19 years 52  
19 years but less than 20 years 54  
20 years but less than 21 years 60  
‘includes job differentials but excludes other differentials  
For employees with twenty-one (21) of more years of net credited service, an  
additional four (4) weeks’ pay at the current wage rate will be made for each  
additional compieted year of service.  
85  
Omen ona Gh —  
1,  
Section 8.01 LAYOFFS (Continued)  
determined by reducing the employee's basic weekly wage rate in  
proportion to the average number of hours worked to the average  
number of full-time hours applicable to the tours wlihin which the  
hours were worked during the twenty-six (26) weeks Immediately  
preceding the layoff.  
10 2. Any vacation payment to which the employee Is ellgible will be made  
13 D.  
ES -  
in addition to the tayoff allowances.  
lf an employee who has received a layoff allowance is recalled or  
reengaged, and the number of weeks since the effective date of leaving  
is less than the number of weeks’ pay upon which the layoff allowance  
was based, exctusive of any payment In of vacation, the amount pald  
to the employee for the excess number of weeks will be considered as an  
advance to the smployee by the Companies. Repayment of thls amount  
will be made at the time of teemployment, or through payroll deductions  
In each payroll period at the rate of at least ten (10) percent per week of  
the employee's basic weekly wage rote, with the entle amount to be  
repaid within twelve (12) months of the date resemptoyed,  
lf an employee-who- has: bsen -lcid -off-and. given- a layoff-allowance: is-  
subsequently recalled or reengaged and again iald off, the layoff  
allowance In the case of the second layoff or of any subsequent layoff will  
be based on the employee's net credited service, less any prior layoff  
dilowance received and not refunded to the Companies. However, no  
deduction will be made from the secand or subsequent layoff allowance If  
the employee has been back at work for at least twenty- four (24) months  
since the date of reemployment.  
Employees specifically designated as surplus and lald off will retain certain  
recall for twenty-four (24) months following the date they left the  
work group. Recall sights will be as follows:  
1, Surplus employees who are laid off must submit a form provided by  
the Companies if they wish to be recalled from layoff. On this form,  
employees may express thelr preferences for reassignment or  
placement after recall. They may designate any Job titles for which  
they are qualifled as the Job titles in which they wish to be placed  
should vacancies occur. Employees may also designate as many  
work locations as they wish for placement consideration. These  
location designations may be as specific (e.g., a building) of os  
general (6.g., a city of an entire geographical area) as the  
employees desire. The employees’ preferences may be modified by  
the submission of a revised form as often as they wish durlng the  
twenty-four (24) month perlod that the employees retain thetr  
individual recall rights. Employees laid off under the terms of this  
Sectlon must keep the Companies informed of the address where  
they can be ieached.  
2. Laid off employees will raceive placement as described in  
Section 2.04Btb.  
86  
Fors Regular part-time employees, the amount of layoff allowance l|s_  
-=—  
Oen anh Wh —  
Section 8.01 LAYOFFS (Continued)  
3.  
A given employes shall recelve only one (1) job offer for a position In  
the employee's previous work group. The employee will receive only  
one (1) job offer for a position in the same job title In one (1) work  
location within a headquarters which the employee requested. The  
employee will receive a maximum of two (2) job offers in any other  
job titles for which the employee Is quallfied. If an employee refuses  
to accept the one (1) job offer made In either of the first two (2)  
cases described above or refuses to accept two (2) offers made in  
the last case, the employee will receive no other job offers.  
### 1F THE EMPLOYEE IS OFFERED THEN  
A job in his/her no other job offers will be  
previous work group made.  
A job in the same title In no other job offers wiil be  
one work location which made,  
he/she raquested  
A job in any other title(s) the employee will be entitled  
(than the one held by the to one more job offer from  
employee at the time either 1, 2, or 3.  
he/she was displaced)  
and declines  
   
Whenever an employee a job offer as described In Section  
8.01F3, the employee has three (3) days from the date of  
the offer in which to accept or reject the job offer. If the employee  
accepts a job offer, the employee has fifteen (15) calendar days from  
the date of acceptance to report to work, Fallure to report to work  
within this perlod will result in the termination of the Job offer and the  
employee will forfeit all recall rights. |  
Lald off employees recailed to a position as descilbed In Section  
8.01F3 wiil not be entitled to relocation benefits.  
87  
### NOTES  
r  
.  
_——- —— =  
—  
. ce  
—-  
(20 or  
—_——  
wn —  
### ARTICLE 9  
### ~ OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH  
Section 9.01 Safety is a mutual concern to the Companies and the Union. The  
Companies and the Union recognize and appreciate that a healthy and safe  
work environment is In the best interests of the parties and encourage the  
Invelvement and participation of employees/Unlon members in safety and  
health activities. In order to accomplish thls goal, the parties agree to the  
following:  
A.  
Pacifle Bell and Nevada Bell will each establish with the Union a separate  
Joint Committee on Occupational Safety and Health (JCOSH). Each  
JCOSH shall consist of three (3) Union appointed representatives and three  
(3) Company appointed representatives. The JCOSHs shall be established  
within thirty (30) days after the ratification of this Contract, Each JCOSH  
shall:  
Consider and examine appropriate suggestions from the Union and/or  
Company which would enhance ongoing health and safety  
programs.  
2. Make recommendations on health and safety issues to the  
Company/Union Bargainets, including recommendations on such  
sublects as surveys and studies. The JCOSH does not have the  
to formulate policy nor enter Into agreements on subjects  
which jsequire collective bargaining. The JCOSH is, however,  
encouraged to makes recommendations to Company officiats  
responsible for health and safety matters, who moy in turn authorize  
the JCOSH to implement recommendations, If  
3 Facilitate management and union discussion on local and statewide  
safety Issues by encouraging open and forthright discussions at the  
Business Unit level. Local and statewide health and safety committees  
shali keep the JCOSH informed and work with the JCOSH on issues of  
mutual concern.  
4. Meet at least quarterly: however, more frequent meetings may be  
held by mutual consent of the members of the JCOSH. Minutes of  
each JCOSH meeting shail be prepared and distributed as  
determined by the Company and Unlon bargaining spokespersons.  
Employees of the Companies who are members of the JCOSHs will be paid  
for all meetings in accordance with the provisions of Sectlon 3.02 of this  
Contract.  
89  
— oe  
a= =, —_—_ =a ——  
= —  
~  
_ —_—  
—_——  
### NOTES  
—_  
——— = eae  
-_——  
—_———— —  
  
### ARTICLE 10  
### CONCLUSION  
Section 10.01 This Contract shall become effective as of February 5, 2001, and  
shall continue in effect until 11:59 P.M.. (Pacific Standard Time) April 1, 2004.  
Negotiations on a new Contract shall begin not ealller than sixty (60) days prior  
to such termination. It is the intention of the parties with respect to the  
coliective bargaining of future contracts replacing this of any subsequent wage,  
hours, and working conditlons contract to conduct their negotiations thereon in  
such a manner as to reach a new agreement on or before the termination of this  
present Contract.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this consolidated Contract to be  
signed this 76" day of March, 2001. pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement  
executed on February 5, 2001.  
### THE COMBAMES  
   
91  
### NOTES  
—_—  
eee  
+.  
——  
———  
eee er ee ee eee  
  
aA  
   
### TT APPENDIX A ~- ~~  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
### PAGE  
### Section Al SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA WORKING CONDITIONS FOR............. . 95  
e Network Services  
(except Official Communications Services - Business  
Office ond Business Services Operations lsDN/PCO  
except Service Representative Title only)  
e S$8C Services, inc.  
e Human Resources  
e Corporate Real Estate  
« Information Technology (except Computer  
Operator Title)  
Procurement (except Administrative Services  
flies}  
Network Planning & Engineering  
e Industry Morkets - (Access Operations, Testing  
technician Title only), (Local Operations Center,  
except Service Representative Title)  
Network Services Staff  
Publle Communications - Operations Only  
Telecom, inc. - Network Operations  
Advanced Solutions, inc. (except Service  
Representative and Order Writer Titles oniy)  
Al.01 Titles and 95  
A1.G2 OT WOK 96  
A1.03 WOEK repr 97  
Al.04 Headquarters and Speclfied 98  
A1.0§ OvetiMe GNA PremMlUM 99  
A1.06 107  
### Section A2 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA AND NEVADA WORKING  
### CONDITIONS 102  
e Network Services  
(except Official Communications Services - Business  
Oftice and Business Services Operations ISON/PCO  
except Service Representative Title only)  
e S&C Services, inc.  
e Human Resources  
*« Corporate Real Estate  
e Information Technology (except Computer  
Operator Title)  
e Procurement (except Administrative Services  
Titles)  
¢ Planning & Engineering  
e Industry Markets - (Access Operations, testing  
Technician Title only), (Local Operations Center,  
except Service Rapresentative Title)  
Network Services Staff  
Public Communications - Operations Only  
SBC Telecom, inc. — Network Operations  
SBC Telecom, inc. in las Vegas, NV  
93  
A2.01  
A2.02  
A2.03  
A2.04  
A2.05  
Section AS  
A3.01  
A3.02  
A3,03  
A3.04  
AS.05  
Section A4  
¢ Advanced Sotutions, inc. {except Service  
Representative and Order Writer Titles only)  
Pacific Bell information Services, Maintenance  
Nofification Group  
e Pacific Telesis Group  
« Affairs ~ Nevada Beil only  
Regulatory - Nevada Bell only  
Titles and Applications.......  
HOUSS Of res bee  
OvetlIMe GNA  
### ASSIGNMENT Of HEGAQUATITOIS  
Seniorlty........ (sm Keer Tbe § hid Ride SAE DL  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
e Operator Services only (except Marketing Directory  
Unit  
Titles and Applications FOP da eet  
### HOUTS Of  
Overtime and Sunday Pay  
ce  
° Olfferentlals eaeeaee t¢haape ere  
### WORKING CONDITIONS FOR:....... ae  
e Network Services  
(Official Cammunications Services - Business Office  
only and Business Services Operations ISDN/PCO  
Service Representative Title only)  
« Consume! Markets Group  
« Business Communications Services  
e Industry Markefs (Access Operations, except Testing  
fechnician Title}, (Local Operations Center, Service  
Representative Title  
e $8C Services, inc.  
e Procurement (Administrative Services Fiffes)  
e Information Fechnology (Computer Operator Title  
only)  
e Finance  
e 8usiness Marketing  
« Advanced Solutions, inc. (Service Representative and  
Order Writer only)  
« Global Markets  
Operator Services (Marketing Directory Unit only)  
e Public Communications (except Operations)  
TINGS CANE ABDUCTIONS ates ces ns erence cen eens  
GF WOUK, cose ans  
Overtime and PramMluMm POYMBENIS  
Assignment of 00... "  
ve etn nan vibe Bibel a 6 68 ais ni  
94  
102  
103  
105  
106  
106  
107  
107  
107  
109  
110  
  
114  
114  
114  
116  
117  
118  
OoOonoaranh —  
### APPENDIX A  
### section Al SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA ~ NETWORK SERVICES (EXCEPT OFFICIAL  
### COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES - BUSINESS OFFICE AND BUSINESS SERVICES  
### OPERTATIONS ISDN/PCO EXCEPT SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE TITLE ONLY), S8C  
### SERVICES, INC., HUMAN RESOURCES, CORPORATE REAL ESTATE,  
### TECHNOLOGY (EXCEPT COMPUTER OPERATOR TITLE), PROCUREMENT (EXCEPT  
### ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES FITLES), NETWORK PLANNING & ENGINEERING, INDUSTRY  
### MARKETS -— (ACCESS OPERATIONS, TESTING TECHNICIAN TITLE ONLY), GLOCAL  
### OPERATIONS CENTER, EXCEPT SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE TITLE), NETWORK SERVICES  
### STAFF, PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS - OPERATIONS ONLY, S8C FELECOM, INC. -  
### NETWORK OPERATIONS, ADVANCED SOLUTIONS, INC. (EXCEPT SERVICE  
### REPRESENTATIVE AND ORDER WRITER TITLES ONLY) WORKING CONDITIONS  
The working conditions covered In this Section apply to Pacific Bell employees  
who are represented by the Communications Workers of America in the  
following organizations: Network Services (axcept Official Communications  
Services - Business Office and Business Service Operations ISDN/PCO except  
Service Representative Title only), SBC Services, inc., Wurman Resources,  
Corporate Real Estate, Information Technology (except Computer Operator  
Title), Procurement (except Administrative Services Tiffes), Network Planning &  
Engineering, |Industiy Markets - (Access Operations, Testing Technician Title  
only), (Local Operations Center, except Service Representative Title), Network  
Services Staff, Public Communications - Operations Only, SBC Tefecom, ine. -  
Network Operations, Advanced Solutions, inc. (except Service Representative  
and Order Writer Tifles oniy) as determined by geographic headquaiters  
assignment to be in Southern Callfornia, having the title classifications listed  
below:  
### section Ai.01 AND APPLICATIONS  
Analyst Garage Attendant  
Assignment Garage Mechanic  
Bullding Mechanic Maintenance Administrator  
Bullding Specialist Messenger (Motorized)  
Collector Network Maintenance  
Communications Technician Operations Administrator  
Company Telecommunications Operations Specialist  
Techniclan Outside Plant Technician  
Computer Operator ROMA Administrator  
Customer Service Assoclate Reports Associate  
Data Administrator services Specialist  
Data Specialist Services Technician  
Driver Splicing Technician  
Engineering Administrator Staff Associate  
Engineering Assistant Assistant  
Engineering Cost Assoclate Supply Service Attendant  
Equipment Installation Technician Systems Technician  
Equipment Specialist Systems Technician - Data  
Facilitles Administrator Communications  
Facilities Technician Testing Technician  
FACS Administrator  
Fleid Job Administrator  
95  
Ww & Ww & AD RO AD BO AD PO Se ee ed et st  
A.  
Section Al.02 HOURS OF WORK  
Eight (8) consecutive hours of work exclusive of a meal period intermission  
shail canstitute a tour, except as provided In Section Al.021. Four (4)  
consecutive hours shall constitute a half-tour.  
1. A regutar tour Is the eight-hour work period which Js assigned by the  
Company within a shift cand which the employee normally works.  
2. A scheduled tour Ils the eight-hour work period within a shift an  
employee is scheduled to work on a particular day as provided in  
section Al.03,  
3. All tours or half-tours will be considered as falling within the calendar  
day on which the tour or half-tour commences.  
A shift (day, evening or night) Is one assigned to on employee for a  
period of two (2) weeks of more, except that training assignments,  
vacation rellefs or training reliefs of one (1} week or more are regular shifts.  
Vacation reliefs shall Include any additional days which the employee  
being relieved may take immediately preceding or following the  
allowed under Article 6, Section 6.02. A scheduled shift Is the one within  
which an. employee's scheduled tour falls.  
The day shift Includes tours at or after 6:00 A.M. and prior to 12:00  
noon. Normal working hours shall be elght (8) consecutive hours, starting  
at 6:00 A.M., exclusive of meal period intermission.  
The evening shift includes tours at o1 after 12:00 noon and not Jater  
than 7:00 P.M.  
A night shift includes tours starting after 7:00 P.M. and prior to 6:00 A.M. No  
tour shall be scheduled for a period of two (2) weeks or more, which starts  
later than 12:00 midnight or before 5:00 A.M.  
The hours of work for all employees shall start and finish at any location  
designated by thels supervisor and In accordance with the provisions of the  
following:  
1. When the designated starting polnt of work Is within the employees’  
specified limits, their working Nours shall start and finish:  
a. At designated Job locations for non-motorized splicing crews.  
b. At Company-owned of rented premises or at customers’  
premises (P.B.X. locations, sub-storerooms, etc.) for all other  
employees,  
2. Travel time will b& computed as provided for in Article 5, Section  
§.05C2,  
48  
Section Al.02 HOURS OF WORK (Continued)  
3. When employees are away from headquarters and the location Is  
such that there are no specified limits, thelr working hours shall start  
and finish at the camp, hotel or garage designated by the supervisor.  
4, The specified Jimits referred to in this Section are defined in Section  
A1.04.  
When an employee is being transferred at the direction of the Company to  
gq new headquarters o; moved fram one job location to another, travel  
time excluding regular meal periods, shall be considered as time worked,  
except that when sleeping accommedations on commercial transportation  
are furnished, travel time falling outside the employee's scheduled tour, of  
If not scheduied, the employee's regular tour, shall not be paid for.  
Meal period Intermission shall narmally be one (1) hour. Generally, meal  
perlod Intermisslons of less than one (1) hour shalt be on the basis of an  
entire work group in the same title classification at a particular work  
location as determined by the Company and the Local Union. Where the  
Company deems it desirable to implement meal periods of different  
lengths. the change wili be negotiated with the Local Union.  
Meal period intermission may be reduced by mutual agreement between  
the employee and the supervisor.  
1. In those cases where an employee’s scheduled meal period ts  
reduced, the employee shail be compensated aft the rate of time and  
one-half (1-1/2) for the portion of the scheduled meal perlod the  
employee works. lf the employee prefers, his or her schedule shall be  
adjusted to reflect the reduced mea/ period and earlier quitting time.  
Li In those cases where the employee requests the change, no premium  
payments will be Invoived.  
Employees working evening and night shifts. and employees working on  
day shifts where the needs of the service require it in the judgment of the  
Company, shall be granted a reasonable meal perlod on Company time.  
Employees must not leave their work without approval of their supervisors.  
The normal workweek shall consist of five (5) scheduled tours oar the  
equivalent in tours and hatf-tours within a calendar week (Sunday to  
Saturday Inclusive). Employees scheduled to work on Sunday shall be  
scheduled four (4) additional consecutive days. Any hours assigned in  
excess of the normat workweek are non-scheduled hours.  
### Section Al.03 WORK SCHEDULES  
   
A.  
A work schedule Is the notification to amployees of thelr scheduled work  
time.  
97  
OOnonh an —  
Section Al.03 WORK SCHEDULES (Continued)  
Work schedules shall be posted to show the normal week, scheduled  
Sundays, shift (day, evening or night) and hours, Such schedules shall  
cover not less than a two-week period and shali be posted at least forty-  
eight (48) hours prior to the start of such period. When work schedules aie  
posted to cover periods of more than two (2) weeks, the two-week  
perlod shall be considered the basic peilod for determining an smployee's  
regular shift. Each succeeding two-week period shall become the basic  
period forty-sight (48} hours prior to the start of such two-week perlod.  
1. The posted work schedule for any such two-week period shall not be  
changed less than forty-eight (48) hours before the start of the  
particular two-week period, except as hereinafter provided in this  
Contract.  
2, Work schedules will not be posted for employees who normally work  
the same hours within the day shift, Monday to Friday, inclusive.  
3, Schedules shall be posted In a place accessible to employees  
involved and shall remain posted during the period covered by such  
schedule and held available to employees for a perlod of one (1)  
year,  
workweek,  
Except as provided for in Article 5, Sections and 5.04H of this Contract,  
unless an employee is given at least forty-eight (48) notice of a  
change in the days ot hours the employee is scheduled to work, the  
employee will be permitted to work the days or hours originally scheduled  
and any other time which the employee is required ta work shalf be in  
addition to that arlginally scheduled,  
The foregoing paragraph will not apply under the following  
1. When changes in days to be worked are made at the employee's  
request, with the approval of supervision.  
2. When changes are made between day, evening or night shifts for  
which a premium is pald.  
3. When an employee Is scheduled to work and is excused with pay.  
### Section Al.04 HEADQUARTERS AND SPECIFIED LIMITS  
A.  
Headquarters as used in this Section Is the territory within the base rate  
area of an exchange, for example, Los Angeles, Glendale, San Pedro, etc.,  
in which an employee is requiany assigned to work.  
98  
  
Sectlon Al1.04 AND SPECIFIED LIMITS (Continued)  
Specified Limits as used in this section Is the headquarters boundary,  
except that within the Los Angeles Headquarters the specifled limits shall  
be identical with the zone boundarles. Zones shall consist of the territory  
within the base rate area boundary included within the following office  
boundarles:  
### ZONE A  
Angelus - 3434 E, 4th  
Capitol - 2445 Daly  
Clinton - 1207 N. Ave. 54  
Madison - 433 S. Olive  
### ZONE C  
Dunkirk - 720 §. Rampart  
Hollywood - 1429 N, Gower  
Huntley - 111 N. Union  
Melrose - 8075 Melrose  
### ZONE B  
Adams - 501 E. Vernon  
Axminster - 3233 W. Vernon  
Lorain - 9420 Long Beach Blivd.,  
Sauth Gate  
Ludiow - 6822 Santa Fe,  
Huntington Park  
Pleasant - 6900 $. Vermont  
Piymouth-10600 $. Vermont  
— 71935 W. Adams  
Richmond - 1900 S$. Grand  
Normandy - 1255 N. Vermont  
sunset - 7323 Sunset  
Webster - 666 S. La Brea  
Spruce - 693) Atlantic Ave., Bell  
All employees shall be assigned a headquarters. Headquarters for new  
employees may be assigned at the time hired or upon completion of tnitial  
training in formal Company schools.  
All employees assigned to the Los Angeles Headquarters shall also be  
assigned to the zone In which they regularly work.  
An employee's shall not be changed for a period of less than  
six (6) consecutive months, except when the change Is made at the  
request of the employee.  
An employee's zone shall not be changed for a period of less than thirty  
(30) consecutive days, except when the change is made at the request of  
the employee.  
### Section Al.QS5 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS  
A.  
When an has not been relieved for five (5) consecutive hours or  
more during the twenty-four (24) hours Immediately preceding a period of  
work, whether scheduled or extra time, the amployse shali be pald at the  
premium rate from the starting time of such period of work relleved  
from duty.  
All time worked for a period beginning three (3) hours of more before the  
employee's scheduled tour, or if not scheduled, the emptoyee's regular  
tour, and continuing until from duty shall be pald for at the  
premium rate.  
The same conditions with respect to traveling time as covered in Article 5,  
Section 5.04K of this Contract will apply to all changes in starting time when  
the notification to the employee of such a change is made after 11:00 P.M.  
and prior to 6:00 A.M., unless such is given the employee while  
at work.  
### Section A1.05 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS (Continued)  
D. When an employee is scheduled fora period of less than two (2) weeks to  
a shift other than the employee's regular shift, all hours worked shall be  
pald for at the premium rate, except as foliows:  
1.  
When the employee requests a change for personal reasons, the  
straight-time rate, Including any applicable differential, will be paid.  
An employes receiving a shift differential who Is temporarily assigned  
to a day shift in connection with training assignments, vacation reliefs  
or training reliefs for a peniad of one (1) week orf more but less than  
two (2) weeks, shall retain the shift differential but shall not receive  
premium pay for the change of shiff. Such vacation rellef shall be  
deemed to include any additional days which the employee on  
vacation may take immediately preceding or following fhe  
employee's vacation.  
An employee temporarlly assigned to an evening or night shift in  
connection with tralning assignments, vacation rellefs or tralning  
reliefs for a period of one (1) week or more, shall receive the  
appropriate shift differential, but shall not receive premium pay for  
the change of shift. Such vacation relief shall be deemed. to Include  
-any-addltional- days which-the. evening. of night shift employee may  
take immediately preceding or following the employee's vacation.  
E. The Company shall distribute the opportunity to work time which requites  
poyment at premium rates as equitably as the needs of the service will  
permit. Representatives of the Company and the Union shall endeavor to  
determine the employee groups which are appropriate for this purpose. In  
the event of fallure to reach final determination of the  
appropriate employee groups will be made by the Highest Leve! below  
Officer or an authorized representative. The provisions of this Section shal  
not be subject to arbitration.  
1,  
Lists shall be maintained on an accumulative basis for each  
appropriate employee group showing the distributlon in terms of  
equivalent hours separately for I) scheduled Sunday and holiday work  
and other scheduled work pald for at the premium rate; 2) all non-  
scheduled work. When tlme worked during an emptoyee’s normal  
workweek results In pramium payments for a scheduled day, only the  
premium portion shall be Included in the list. Such lists snall be made  
avaitable in a place mutually agreeable for ready Inspection by any  
employee in the group.  
100  
—  
Section Al.06 SENIORITY  
A,  
   
wherever used in this Contract, shail mean net credited seivige as  
shown by the records of the Company.  
A vacancy shail not be deemed to exist for:  
1, Any period of sickness of accident disability absence, or  
2. Leaves of absence not to exceed ninety (90) days, or other temporary  
absences not to exceed six (6) months, or  
3. Absences for formal training not to exceed one (1) year, or other  
training not to exceed nine (9) months, or  
4, in the case of rellef assignments arlsing out of absences, as covered  
in 1, 2; or 3 of this Section,  
The Company shalt take seniority Into consideration in selecting employees  
for training. WNothing in this provision shall limit the Company's right to  
select empioyees for training who, in Its judgment, are best qualified to  
receive such training. Nelther the provisions of this Section nor their  
applicatlon shail be subject to arbitration,  
Seniosity shall be considered in the assignment of hours within a shift  
among those qualified employees regularly assigned to the shift.  
Whenever two (2) or more shifts which carry the same premium payments  
are scheduled for the same day, scheduled to work such shifts  
by the Company may exercise a cholce of shifts, at the time work  
schedules are prepared, In the order of their seniorlty provided thetr job  
quallfications, as determined by the Company, are adequate to meet the  
demonads of the service.  
The provisions of this Section may be suspended by the Company when  
such action is required by the demands of the service. The phrase  
"demands of the service" means any or all requirements necessary to  
improve ond protect the service, adjust fhe force between hours, shifts and  
locations, care fer the training needs of the force and determine the  
qualifications of an employes for any assignment. The determination of  
the demands of the service rests with the Company. When any or ai! of the  
provisions of this Article have been suspended because of the demands of  
the service as herein defined, the Company will notify the Union as soon as  
practicable.  
101  
Oownoanh &© bos —  
### Sectlon A2 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA AND NEVADA - NETWORK SERVICES (EXCEPT  
### OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES - BUSINESS OFFICE AWD BUSINESS SERVICES  
### OPERATIONS ISDN/PCO EXCEPT SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE TITLE ONLY),  
### SERVICES, INC., HUMAN RESOURCES, CORPORATE REAL ESTATE, INFORMATION  
### TECHNOLOGY (EXCEPT COMPUTER OPERATOR TITLE), PROCUREMENT (EXCEPT  
### ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES TITLES), NETWORK PLANNING & ENGINEERING, iNDUSTRY  
### MARKETS -~ (ACCESS OPERATIONS, TESTING TECHNICIAN TITLE ONLY), (LOCAL  
### OPERATIONS CENTER, EXCEPT SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE TITLE), NETWORK SERVICES  
### STAFF, PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS - OPERATIONS ONLY, S8C TELECOM, INC. -  
### NETWORK OPERATIONS, SBC TELECOM,  
### INC. IN LAS VEGAS, NV, ADVANCED  
### SOLUTIONS, INC. (EXCEPT SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE AND ORDER WRITER TITLES  
### ONLY), PACIFIC BEL’ INFORMATION SERVICES, MAINTENANCE NOTIFICATION  
### GROUP, PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP, EXTERNAL AFFAIRS - NEVADA BELL ONLY,  
### REGULATORY —- NEVADA BELL ONLY WORKING CONDITIONS  
The working conditions covered In this Section apply to Pacific Bell and Nevada  
who are represented by the Communications Workers of America  
In the following organizations: Network Services (except Official Communications  
Services ~ Business Office) and Business Services Operations ISDN/(PCO except  
Service Representative Title only), SBC Services, inc., Humon Resouices,  
Corporate Real Estate Information Technology (except Computer Operator  
Title), Procurement (except Administrative Services Network Planning &  
Engineering. \Industry Markets - (Access Operations, Testing Technician Title.  
only), (Locat Operations Center, except Service Representative. Title),_Network— —---— —  
Services: Staff, Public “‘Comimunicdtions - Operations Only, S&C Telecom, inc. -  
Network Operations, $8C Telecom, inc. in Las Vegas, NV, Advanced Solutions,  
inc, (except Service and Order Wrifer Tilfes only), Pacific Bell  
information Services, Maintenance Group, Telesis Group,  
External Affairs - Nevada Beil only, Regulatory - Nevada Beil only as determined  
by geographic headquarters assignment to be in Northesn California of Nevada,  
having the title classifications listed below:  
### Section A2.01 TITLES AND APPLICATIONS  
Analyst  
Assignment Administrator  
Building Mechanic  
Building Specialist  
Collector  
Combination Technician (Nevada Only)  
Communications Technician  
Communications Telecommunicatlons  
Technician  
Computer Operator  
Customer Service Assoclate  
Data Administrator  
Data Specialist  
Driver  
Engineering Administrator  
Engineering Assistant  
Engineering Cost Associate  
Equipment Installation Technician  
Equipment Specialist  
Facillties Administrator  
Facilltlies Technician  
FACS Administrator  
Fleid Job Administrator  
Garage Attendant  
102  
Garage Mechanic  
Humon Resources Operations  
Associate  
Maintenance Administiator  
Maintenance Notification  
Associate (PBIS MNG only)  
Medical Assistant  
Messenger (Motorized)  
Network Maintenance Specialist  
Operations Administrator  
Operations Specialist  
Outside Plant Technician  
ROMA Administrator  
Reports Associate  
Services Speciallst  
Services Technician  
splicing Techniclan  
Staff Associate  
Supervisor's Assistant  
supply Service Attendant  
Supply Specialist (Nevada only)  
systems Technician  
Systems Technician - Data Comm  
Testing Technician  
OOenounpowons—  
Section A2.02 HOURS OF WORK  
A.  
Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, shall constitute a full  
shift, except as provided In Section A2.02H. Four (4) consecutive hours,  
exclusive of meal period, shall constitute a half shift. A regular shift (day,  
evening or night) is one scheduled to be an shift for a perlod  
of not less than two (2) weeks.  
I. Temporary changes from a regular shift for periods of one calendar  
week or more but less than two (2} calendar weeks, within a basic  
period as defined in Section A2.02A2 below, for vacation reliefs,  
classroom training reliefs or classroom training asslganments shall be  
deemed regular shifts and shall be pald for at straight-time plus any  
applicable shift differential, Temporary changes for vacation relief  
shall be deemed to include any additional days which the employee  
may take preceding or following the employee's  
vacation.  
2, Work schedules shall be posted to show tne normal week, scheduled  
Sundays, shift (day, evening or night} and hours. Such schedules shall  
cover not less than a two-week period and shall be posted at least  
forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of such perlod, Where work  
schedules are posted to cover periods of more than two (2) weeks,  
the fist two-week period shall be considered the basic period for  
determining an employee's reguiar shift. Each succeeding two-week  
perlod shalt become the basic périod forty-eight (48) hours prior te  
ihe start of such two-week perlod.  
The posted work schedule for any such two-week period shall not be  
changed less than forty-eight (48) hours before the start of the  
particular two-week period, except as hereinafter provided in this  
Contract.  
3, Work schedules will not be posted for employees who normally work  
the same hours within the day shift. Monday to Friday, inclusive,  
4, Temporary changes on a scheduled day between day, evening or  
night shifts, that is, a change from a day shift to o night shift. a night  
shift to an evening shift, etc., shall not be construed as a change in  
schedule.  
A day shift Is a shift starting at or after 6:00 A.M. and prior to 12:00 noon.  
The normal working hours of a day shift will be from 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon  
and 1:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M.  
An evening shift is a shift starting at or after 12:00 noon and not later than  
7:00 P.M.  
A nalght shift ls a shift starting after 7:00 P.M. and not later than 12:00  
midnight.  
103  
1 Section A2.02 HOURS OF WORK (Continued)  
2  
3 E. No shift shall be scheduied to start later than 12:00 midnight or before 5:00  
4 A.M. No shift shail be scheduled to end after 1:00 A.M. o¢ before 5:00 A.M.  
5 No half-shifi shall be scheduled between the hours of 12:00 midnight and  
6:00 A.M.  
7  
8 F, All shifts or half-shifts will be as falling within the calendar day  
9 on which the shift or half-shift commences.  
10  
1 G. Assigned shifts on Sundays and holidays shall be such hours as the service  
12 may require and shall not be for less than four (4) hours.  
13  
14 H. Employees working evening and night shiffs, and employees working on  
15 day shifts where the needs of the service require it in the Judgment of the  
16 Company, shall be granted a reasonable meat period on Company time.  
17 Employees must not leave their work without the approval of thelr  
18 supervisor.  
19  
20 I, The workweek shall normally consist of five (5) full shifts within a calendar  
2} week. When necessary. the workweek moy consist of full shifts on certain  
22 days and half-shifts on the other days. Not more than fwo (2) haflf-shifts per  
23. _ employee shall be schedulad in any one workweek. Employees scheduled  
24. __ ta. work shall be-scheduled-four (4)-addilitional-consecutive-days. -  
25  
26 Holidays paid for which fall on an employee's scheduled workday shall be  
27 considered a part of the normal workweek described above whether  
28 worked or not.  
29  
30 J. Meal period intermission shall normally be one (1) nour. Generally, meal  
3] period Intermissions of less than one (1) hour shall be on the basis of an  
32 entire work group in the same title classification at a particular work  
33 location as determined by the Company and the Local Union. Where the  
34 Company deems it desirable to implement meal perlods of different  
35 langths, the change will be negotiated with the Local Union.  
36  
37 Meal period intermission may be reduced by mutua? agreement between  
38 the employee and the supervisor.  
39  
40 l. In those cases where an employee's scheduled meal period is  
4] reduced, the employee shall be compensated at the rate of time and  
42 one-half (1-1/2) for the portion of the scheduled meal period the  
43 employes works. If the employee prefers, his or her schedule shall Se  
44 adjusted to reflect the reduced mea/ psrlod and earlier quitting time.  
45  
46 2. In those cases where the employee requests the change, no premium  
47 payments will be involved.  
48  
49  
50  
§1  
§2  
53  
54  
55  
56  
57  
104  
OCowoeonkh WH —  
K.  
A.  
Section A2.02 HOURS OF WORK (Continued) —  
a ©  
The ‘specified limits referred to in thls Section shall genercity be the base  
fate area boundary of an exchange.  
1. Employees working within specified limits shall report on the job or at  
the garage, in accordance wlin their supervisor's instructions, at the  
beginning of their regular shift and leave the job or garage at the  
end of their regular shift. When working outsids specified limits, they  
shail report af the start and end of their regular shift at the garage or  
other location within the specified Iimits in accordance with their  
supervisor's instructions.  
2. When the location of the work is such that there are no specified limits  
the Company will provide transportation from the hotel, camp or  
garage to the work and return, to be used at the option of the  
employee. Shiffs shall start and end aithe hotel, camp o7 garage. as  
determined by the supervisor.  
a. Travel time will be computed as provided for in Article 5, Section  
§,05C2,  
### Section A2.03 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS  
Time worked beginning three (3) hours or more before the start of an  
employee's shift and not continuing into the shift, shall be paid for at the  
rate of one and one-half (7-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked. The  
minimum time paid for shall be two (2) hours,  
Time worked beginning three (3) hours of more before the start of an  
employee's shift and continuing Into the employee's shift shall be paid for  
_ at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked  
the employee is relieved from duty, except as provided In Article 5,  
section 5.04H. Meal period Intermission shall not constitute a relief from  
duty.  
When an employee has not been relieved for five (5) consecutive hours ar  
more during the twenty-four (24) hours immediotely preceding the  
employee's regular shift, the employee shall be paid at the rate of one and  
(1-1/2} hours’ pay for each hour worked during such shift and  
thereafter until relleved from duty for five (5) consecutive hours or more,  
except as provided in Asficie 5, Section 5.04H.  
Overtime will apply to all time consumed In traveling when employees are  
being transferred to new headquarters of moved from one job location to  
another when such traveling follows and is a continuation of a regular shift.  
provided that when sleeping accommodations are furnished, no overtime  
will be allowed.  
105  
### Sectlon A2.03 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS (Continued)  
E. Except as provided for In Articie 5, Sections 5.011 and §.04H of this Contract  
unless an employee is given af least forty-elgnt (48) hours’ notice of a  
change in the days or hours the employee is scheduled to work, the  
employee will be permitted to work the days or hours originally scheduled  
ond any other itme which the employee is required to work shall be in  
addition to that originally scheduled.  
The foregoing paragraph will not apply under the following conditions:  
1. When changes In days to be worked are made at the employee's  
request, with the approval of supervision.  
2. When changes are made between day, evening or night shifts for  
which a premium ts paid.  
3. When an employee Is scheduled to work and Is excused with pay.  
F, Changes from the regular shift will be pald for at the rate of one and one-  
half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for each hour worked off shift and the premlum  
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7?  
8  
9  
10  
11  
12  
13  
14  
15  
16  
\?  
18  
19  
20  
21  
22 payment will cease when the employee's regular shift resumes. A change  
23 of shift Is interpreted to mean a change between day, evening or night  
24. shift. -  
29 stralght-time will be paid.  
26  
27 GS. The Company will endeavor to distribute the opportunity to work extra time  
28 which requires payment at premium rates as equitably as the needs of the  
2? service willi permit. The Company will determine the employee groups  
30 which ate appropriate for this puipose. No grevance arising from the  
3] application or interpretation of this Section shall be subject to arbitration.  
32  
33  
### 34 Section A2.04 ASSIGNMENT OF HEADQUARTERS  
35  
36 for each employee In this bargaining unit will be the exchange to  
37 which the employee is assigned. Employees shall not have their headquarters  
38 changed for a period of less than six (6) months except when the change is at  
39 the employee's request.  
40  
4)  
42 Section A2.05 SENIORITY  
43  
44 based on net credited service as shown by records of the Company.  
45 shall have application to the following:  
46  
47 A. Seniority shall be considered in the assignment of hours within a shift  
48 among those qualifleéd employees regularly assigned to the shift.  
49  
50 B. The selection of vacation dates within each vacation schedule, as  
51 provided in Article 6, Section 6.02,  
52  
53  
54  
56  
56  
57  
106  
section A3  
### OPERATOR SERVICES ONLY (EXCEPT MARKETING DIRECTORY  
### —-WORKING.CONDITIONS - - —  
The working conditions covered in this Sectlon apply to Pacific Bell and Nevada  
Belfamployees who are represented by the Communications Workers of America  
in Operator Services only (except Directory having the title  
classifications listed below:  
### Section A3.01 TITLES AND APPLICATIONS  
A.  
B.  
C.  
Centrat Office Employees:  
Central Office Associate  
Operator (All Classifications)  
Service Assistant  
Service Assistant - 8ilingual  
Transiations Operator  
Offlcs and Clerical  
Computer Operator  
Data Administrator  
Data Specialist  
Office Associate  
Reports Associate  
Staff Associate  
Supervisor's Assistant  
Other Employees:  
Services Speclallst  
Section A3.02 HOURS OF WORK  
A.  
Seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours. excluding meal intermissions but  
including relief periods, shalt constitute o full tour of duty for employees  
with titles listed In Saction A3,0tA, except as provided in Subsections 1, 2, 3  
and 5 following. Eight (8} hours, excluding meal intermissions but including  
rellaf periods, shall constitute a full tour of duty for all other employees.  
1.  
A tour of duty ending at 10:01 P.M.. or after, but not tours,  
shall be six (6) hours in length, including ao half-hour combined ielief  
and meal period, and shall be considered and tregted as a full tour  
of dufy.  
A tour of duty ending between 9:00 P.M. and 10:00 P.M., both  
inciusive, shall be seven (7) hours in Jength, excluding intermission for  
meals but including relief periods, and shal! be considered and  
treated as a full four of dufy.  
A tour of duty ending between 8:00 P.M. and 8:59 P.M., both inclusive,  
for employees with a title Ilsted in Section A3.01A shall be seven (7)  
hours in length, excluding intermission for meals but including  
periods, and shall be considered and treated as a full tour of duty.  
107  
~  
ow Kw wees Zs  
57  
Section A3.02 HOURS OF WORK (Continued)  
i me PNT = =e  
C.  
4, A tour of duty ending between 7:01 P.M. and 8:59 P.M. both inclusive,  
for employees with a fifle listed in Section A3.01C shall be seven and  
one-half (7-1/2) hours in length, excluding intermission for meals but  
including relief periods, and shal! bs considered ond treated as a full  
tour of duty,  
5. An all-night tour of duty in offices where more than one employee is  
regularly scheduled for all-night duty shall be seven (7) hours in  
length, excluding intermission for meals but Including relief periods,  
anc shall be considered and treated asa full tour of duty. In offices  
where only one employee is regularly scheduled for all-night duty, all-  
night tours shall be seven (7) hours In length, including an on-duty  
and relief perlods and shall be considered as a full four.  
the basic workweek shall consist of five (5) full fours or the equivalent  
thereof within a calendar week. Weekly assignments for full-time  
employees shall consist normally of five (5) full fours. When necessary to  
meet service demands, weekly assignments may consist of four (4) full tours  
on certain days and two (2) half tours on other days. for Nevada  
employees, the work schedules shall cover not fess fhan a two-week period  
and shail be posted at least forty-eight (48) hours § prior fo the start of such  
   
ee ere eee ee ae ~_ —  
### RELIEF PERIODS FOR CENTRAL OFFICE EMPLOYEES:  
1. Relief periods will be scheduled at exchanges regulary having a  
force of ten (10) or more Operators on duty in the busy hours.  
2. In exchanges where rellefs are scheduled, the relief periods will be  
for fifteen (15) minutes in each of the two (2) sessions of the seven (7),  
seven and one-half (7-1/2) hour fours and shail be given as near the  
middle of the session as practicable. No rellef period shall start or  
end less than one (1} hour from the start or end, respsctively, of any  
session.  
3. scheduled reliefs will not be cancelied or curtailed except In case of  
emergency.  
4, At exchanges where reliefs are not scheduled, the management  
supervisor shall arrange os a regular routine for each employes to be  
granted a rellef during each session of the employee's tour at a time  
which most closely sults the needs of the employee and the office.  
The fength of such a shall be fifteen (15) minutes.  
108  
### Section A3.03 OVERTIME AND SUNDAY PAY PRACTICES  
A,  
—_ : - - ‘ ~  
### ASSIGNED OVERTIME AND SUNDAY PAY TREATMENT:  
Is  
Time paid for but not worked on a holiday which falls Monday through  
Friday in the calendar week and time paid for but not worked on  
Personal Days Off, shall be included as time worked in the workweek.  
Time worked In excess of the basic workweek shall be pald for at the  
rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours' pay for each such hour  
worked, except that both overtime and Sunday or holidey payments  
shall not be made for the same hours worked. The following time shali  
not be included when determining time worked in excess of the basic  
.workweek:  
a. Time paid for out not worked, except holiday pay and Personal  
Day Off pay as provided in Section A3.03Al above and time  
which is as time worked In accordance with Article  
3, Section 3.0283.  
b. Time worked in excess of a full tour of dufy on any day.  
All Sunday work for employees having tiles fisted in Sectlon A3.01A  
shall be distributed among employees of an office on a rotational  
assignment basis, except that the Company may require such  
employees to work as It deems necessary to meet the needs of the  
service. If there are sufficient employees regularly desiring Sunday  
work, employees may be excused from Sunday work.  
### CALL-OUTS - ON A SCHEDULED WORK DAY  
The following shall apply when an employee covered by this Section Is  
notified on the day of a scheduled tour that the employee's immediate  
services are required:  
  
When employees are called fos work which requlres their tmmediate  
services, work time starts from time of notification and includes normal  
traveling time to home except when the employee continues to the  
end of a scheduled tour or haif-tour. or the employee requests, and is  
granted time off with or without pay (in accordance with current  
office practices), In which case compensation ceases when the  
employee ls retieved from duty and no time allowance shall be made  
for returning home.  
When employees are notified that thelr immedlate services are  
required, after having worked all or part of a scheduled tour, they  
shall be pald from the time of nofiflcation at the rates applicable  
(premium, hollday, straight-time, etc.) for a minimum period of two (2)  
hours including travel time to home.  
109  
### Section A3.03 OVERTIME AND SUNDAY PAY PRACTICES (Continued)  
### C. CALL-OUTS - ON A NON-SCHEDULED DAY  
The following shall apply when employees covered by this Section are  
notified on a non-scheduled day that their immediate services are  
required:  
When employees are notified that their immediate services are required on  
other than a scheduled workday, they shall be paid from time of  
notification at the rates applicable (premium, holiday, straight-time, etc.)  
   
12 fora minimum period of two (2) hours including traveling time to home.  
13  
14 D, When travel time is paid under the provisions of Section A3.03B1 and  
15 A3.03C, employees shalt be relmbursed for mileage.  
16  
17 Section A3.04 SENIORITY  
18  
19 A. The establishment of employees' seniorlty dates Is governed by such rules of  
20 procedure as are agreed upon from time to time by the Union and the  
21 Company. For this purpose, net credited service, as shown by the records  
22 of the Company. shail be used unless changed by mutual agreement.  
23 oti —a wd oo - - a di - “ -  
———— 8. Equltable-assignment-of-hours-of-waork-and- vacation periods shall-be-made——_ ~——  
25 by allowing employees precedence in selection of assignments from tne  
26 schedules in accordance with the order of thelr establisned seniority dates.  
27  
28 Cc. iInmaking assignments In higher-ratad non-management title ciassifications  
29 specified in Section A3.01, the Company will select the employee who, In  
30 judgment, Is best quallfled for the assignment. When two or more  
3] employees are judged by management to be equally quallfied, seniority  
32 shall determine the choice. The provisions of thls Section may be referred  
33 to the grievance procedure set forth In Article 7, Section 7.05 but nelther  
34 the provisions of this Section nor thelr application shall be subject to  
35 arbitration.  
36  
37 D. All seniority considerations are subject to the needs of the service, which  
38 includé ony andall requirements necessary to protect the service, to  
39 meet satisfactory adjustments and of the force, to care for  
40 training needs and to determine the qualifications of an employee for  
Al an assignment. Determination of the ‘needs of the service" rests solely  
42 with management.  
43  
44 E. For employees temporarily transferred between exchanges within the  
45 territorial iimits of this bargalning unit, oF into the territory covered by this  
46 bargalning unit, seniority In regard to selection of hours at the exchange to  
47 which they are transferred will start with the date of temporary transfer.  
48  
49  
50  
51  
52  
53  
54  
55  
56  
57  
110  
.  
A.  
### Section A3.05 DIFFERENTIALS  
aa - - - ——  
An employee having a title listed in Section A3.01A who works an early  
morning tour beginning before 6:00 A.M., or an evening or night tour of  
duty shall recelve the wage differential applying as shown below. The  
amount of wage differentials as specified in Appendix C, is for one (1) full  
tour of duty. The differential will be added to the basic wage rate in  
computing vacation, overtime, holiday and Sunday payments.  
1,  
lf a tour to which a differential Ils applicable Is worked as assigned,  
the full differential is payable.  
If a tour to which a differential ls applicable is not completed due to  
an employee’s being excused, the full differential is payable if the  
ramalinder of the tour is pald for.  
lf a tour to which a differential is applicable is not completed due to  
an employee's being absent, whether excused or unexcused, and the  
of the four Is not pald for, the differential payable will be  
the differential, if any, applicable at the end of the time paid for,  
except as provided herein:  
a.  Whenan employes assigned to work a seven and one-half hour  
evening tour leaves the job and is paid to a itme when an elght-  
hour differential is In effect, of when an employee assigned to  
work a seven-hour evening tour leaves the Job and is paid to a  
time when a seven and one-half or eight-hour differential Is in  
effect, or when an employee assigned to work a six-hour  
evening tour leaves the job and fs pald to a time when a seven-  
hour, seven and one-half hour or eight-hour differential is In  
effect, the differential shall be the lowest differential applicable  
to the type of tour (seven and one-half, seven or six-hour)  
originally assigned.  
b. Anall-night employee will recelve the full night differential when  
absent part of the four.  
A full differential Is payable for a part-time evening tour, and an  
uncompleted part-time assignment I$ subject to the same treatment  
accorded full-time assignments in Section A3.05A3.  
For each day of paid vacation or each day of excused time pald for  
and of each paid holiday not worked, an employee will recsive the  
normal daily differentia! as shown in Appendix C. Where an  
empioyes's assignments are such as to vary in the frequency and  
amount of differential paid, the assignments for the days on which  
the employee was absent will determine the differential to be pald.  
or, If no assignment has been made, the differentia! applying shali  
be determined as follows:  
a. The differential, tf any. for paid days of a week shall  
be that applicable to the first five (5) assigned workdays or paid  
days of the week preceding the start of vacation.  
111  
   
### Section A3.05 DIFFERENTIALS  
b. The differential for a day of excused time paid for or a paid  
holiday not worked shall be that applicable to the assignment  
on the corresponding day of the preceding calendar week. If  
the day of the preceding week was not an  
assigned workday, then the differential applicable to the last  
assigned workday, preceding the absent day or holiday, shall  
apply.  
Relief of an employee in a higher-rated fitte, other than as specified in  
Section A3.05B4 shall be compensated far by a dally differential, if such  
period of retief is half a tour or more and provided the relieving employee is  
qualified by training or experience, as determined by the Company, as  
foltows:  
1, Three dollars ($3.00) when an Operator relieves a Service  
Assistant, Service Assisfant - Central Office  
2. Eight dollars ($8.00) when a central office employee relieves an  
employee with any management title.  
- 3... Elght -doilars ($8.00)-when -an employee with a-title listed in-A3.018  
-relleves—a-management-employee-provided-the-relieving-  
assumes all the duties of the relleved employee. Three dollars ($3.00) |  
when an employee with a title listed in A3.01B relieves a higher-rated  
employee also listed in A3.01B provided the relleving employees  
assumes all the duties of the relieved employee.  
4. The appropriate higher-rated title shall be assigned effective with  
the first day of duty an employee having a higher-rated tifle  
when the rellef assignment is:  
a. On a full-time basis for at least five (5) full tours within a perlod of  
seven (7) consecutive days, or  
b. planned to continue for four (4) consecutive weeks or  
longer and Is for ot least two and one-half (2-1/2) days per  
week, oF  
Cc. has been worked at least fwo and (2-1/2) days per  
week for a period of four (4) consecutive weeks or more.  
An Operator who, forhaif a four ormore, operates the control position  
of a switchboard designed for Operator training shall be paid a_ dally  
differential in the amount of forty cents ($.40) above the employee's  
basic wage rate.  
The differential specified In Section A3.05B and A3.G5C will be added to  
the basic wage rate in computing payments for overtime work and time  
worked on holidays and Sundays. Such differentials shall not be added to  
the basic wage rate in computing payments for vacations, holidays not  
worked and other excused paid time.  
112  
### OOOO B Ww A —  
Section A3.05 DIFFERENTIALS (Continued)  
-  
—. ———  
—~e = = —  
E. Services Specialists shall be paid in eecordance with the applicable wage  
schedules [Included in Appendix C. Services Speclalilsts who relleve  
employees carrying a higher job title will be pald in accordance with  
Articte 4, Section 4.02 or Service Specialists who relleve a manager will be  
paid in accordance with Article 5, Section 5.02.  
The relief differential specified above willbe added tothe basic wage  
rate In computing payments for overtime work and time worked on  
holidays and Sundays. Such differentials shall not be added to the basic  
wage tate in computing payments for vacations, holidays not worked  
and other excused paid time.  
### DUTIES OF SERVICE ASSISTANT AWD  
### SERVICE ASSISTANT-BILINGUAL  
Conduct initial and supplemental training of Operators.  
Provide console coverage to Operators, other employees and In  
the handling of calls, Including emergency calls. Handle customer calls at an  
operating position in emergency conditions, when directed by management.  
Take charge of the office when assigned, such os on Sundays, holidays or other  
periods or substitute In higher positions when directed By management.  
Perform miscellaneous activities assigned by management, which may include:  
1. Conduct actual work time studies.  
2, Inform Operators of changes In operating practices and procedures.  
3 Process emergency requests.  
4, Check Operators on and off duty.  
§ Perform miscellaneous ticket activities.  
6, Analyze employees’ operating skills fo determine training needs.  
‘The above outline covers generally the principal duties of the Service Assistant  
and Service Assistant-Bilingual. Other duties of the same general type  
customarily performed are not listed, and their exclusion shall not be construed  
as limiting the dufles to the ttems listed above.  
113  
   
Oman oanhah—  
   
### Section A4 NETWORK SERVICES (OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES - BUSINESS  
### OFFICE ONLY AND BUSINESS SERVICES OPERATIONS ISON/PCO SERVICE  
### REPRESENTATIVE TITLE ONLY), CONSUMER MARKETS GROUP, BUSINESS  
### COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, INDUSTRY MARKETS (ACCESS OPERATIONS, EXCEPT  
### TESTING TECHNICIAN TITLE), (LOCAL OPERATIONS CENTER, SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE  
### TITLE ONLY), SBC SERVICES, INC. PROCUREMENT (ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  
### INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (COMPUTER OPERATOR TITLE ONLY); OPERATOR  
### SERVICES (MARKETING DIRECTORY UNIT ONLY), FINANCE, BUSINESS MARKETING,  
### ADVANCED SOLUTIONS, INC. (SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE AND ORDER WRITER TITLES  
### 10 ONLY), GLOBAL MARKETS, PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS (EXCEPT OPERATIONS)  
### 11 WORKING CONDITIONS  
12  
13 Tne working conditions covered in this Section apply to Pacific Bell and Nevada  
14 felfemployees who are represented by the Communications Workers of America  
15 In Network Services (Official) Communications Services - Business Office only and  
16 Business Services Operations ISON/PCO Service Representative only),  
17 . Consumer Markefs Group, Business Communications Services, Industiy Morkefs  
18 (Access Operations, except Testing Technician Title), (Local Operations Center,  
19 Service Representative Title only) SBC Services, inc Procurement (Administrative  
20 Services 7fles, Information Technology (Computer Operator Title only); Operator  
21 Services (Marketing Directory Unit only}, Finance, Business Marketing, Advanced  
22 Solutions, ine. (Service Representative and Order Writer Titles only), Global  
23 Markefls,.. Public Communications (except Operations) having the title  
classtfications.listed.bslow:.  
25  
### 26 Section A4.01 TITLES AND APPLICATIONS  
27  
28 Accounting Associate Information Processor  
Messenger (Motorlzéd)  
Offlce Associate  
Order Writer  
Production Representotive  
Provisioning Specialist  
Reports Associate  
Sales and Service  
Representative — Bilingual  
service Representative  
Staff Associate  
Supervisor’s Assistant  
Supply Service Attendant  
29 Accounting Specialist  
30 Analyst  
31 Cashier  
32 Collection Representative  
33 Collection Representative — Bilingual  
34 Computer Operator  
39 Copy Service Artist  
36 Customer Associate  
3? Customer Representative  
38 Customer Representative - Bilingual  
39 Data  
40 Data Entry Assoclate  
4| Data Specialist  
42  
43 Section A4.02 HOURS OF WORK  
44  
45 A, Eight (8) consecutive houts of work, exclusive of meal perlod Intermission,  
46 shall constitute a shift. Four (4) consecutive hours shall constitute a half-  
47 shiff.  
48  
49 1. A regular shift (day, evening or night) is one scheduled to be an  
50 employee's shift for a perlod of not less than two (2) weeks.  
$i  
§2 2. All shifts or half-shifts will be considered as falling within the calendar  
53 day on which the shift or halt-shift commences.  
54  
55 3. Assigned shifts on Sundays and Holidays shall be such hours as the  
56 service may require and shall not be for iess than four (4) hours.  
57  
114  
—  
Section A4,02 HOURS OF WORK, (Continued)  
Work schedules shall be posted to show the normal week, scheduled  
Sundays, shift (day, evening or night) and hours. Such schedules shall  
cover not less than a4 two-week period and shall be posted at least forty-  
eight (48) hours prior to the start of such perlod. When wark schedules are  
posted to cover periods of more than two (2) weeks, the fitst two-week  
peilod shall be considered the basic perlod for determining an  
regular shift. Each succeeding two-week period shall become the basic  
perslod forty-elght (48) hours prior to the start of such two-week period.  
1. The posted work schedule for any such two-week period shai) not be  
changed Iess than forty-elght (48) hours before the start of the  
particular two-week perlod, except as hereinafter provided.  
2. Temporary changes on a scheduled day between day, evening or  
night shifts, that Ils, a change from a day to a night shift, a night  
shift to an evening shift, etc.. shall not be construed as a change in  
schedule,  
3. Work schedules will not be posted for employees who normally work  
the same hours within a day shift, Monday to Friday, inclusive.  
A, Temporary changes from a regulas shift for periods of one (1)  
caiendai week or more bul less than two (2) calendar weeks, within a  
basic period as defined in Section A4.02B above for vacation reltefs,  
classroom training rellefs of classroom training assignments shall be  
deemed regular shifts and shail be paid for at straight-tlme plus any  
applicable shift differential. Temporary changes for vacation relief  
shall be deemed to include any additional days which the employee  
may toke Immediately preceding or following the employee's  
vacation.  
A day shift is a shift starting at or after 6:00 A.M. and prior fo 12:00 noon.  
The evening shift includes shifts starting at or after 12:00 noon and not later  
than 7:00 P.M,  
A night shift is a shitt staring after 7:00 P.M. and not later than 12:00  
midnight,  
No shift shall be scheduled to start later than 12:00 midnight or befote 6:00  
A.M. No shift shall be scheduled to end after 1:00 A.M. or before 5:00 A.M.  
No half-shift shall be scheduled between the hours of 12:00 midnight and  
6:00 A.M.  
415  
ww —  
   
A4.02 HOURS OF WORK (Continued)  
G.  
Meal period intermission shall normally be one (1) hour. Generally, meal  
period intermissions of less than one (1) hour shall be on the basis of an  
entire work group in the same title classification at a particular work  
location as determined by the Company and the Local Union. Where the  
Company deems It desirable to Implement meal periods of different  
lengths, the change will be negotiated with the Local Union.  
Meal perlod intermission may be reduced by mutual agreement between  
the employee and the supervisor.  
). In those cases where an employee’s scheduled meal period Is  
reduced, the employee shall be compensated at the rate of time and  
one-half (1-4/2) for the partion of thea scheduled meal period the  
employee works. If the employee prefers, his or ner schedule shail be  
adjusted to reftect the reduced mea/perlod and earlier quitting time.  
2, In those cases where the employee requests the change, no premium  
payments will be Involved,  
Employees working evening and night shifts, and employees working on  
day shifts where the needs of the service requlre it in the judgment of the  
_ Company._shall. be meal-perlod-on Company time.  
Employees must no} leave their work without approval of their supervisor.  
the normal workweek shall consist of five (5) shifts within a  
calendar week or the equivalent in shifts and half-shifts.  
Assignment of scheduled weekend and Hollday work will be on a rotational  
basis without regard to the number of charged non-scheduled hours,  
Volunteers for regular Saturday scheduled workdeys will be given priority  
for Saturday work. Non-volunteers will be assigned scheduled Saturday  
work on a rotational basis as necessary fo provide a sufficient wark force.  
Anh employee detailed to work away from headquarters shall be allowed  
reasonable traveling time in excess of that normally required to reach  
headquarters and such time shall be considered as time worked.  
### Section A4.03 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS  
A,  
When travel time ts paid under the provisions of Article 5, Sections 5.04l,  
§,04J and §.04K of this Contract, employees shall be relmbuised for the  
mileage.  
The Company shail the opportunity to work time which requires  
payment at premium rates as equitably as the needs of the service will  
permit. Representatives of the Company and the Union shall endeavor to  
determine the employee groups which are approprate for this purpose. In  
the event of iailurle to reach agreement, final determination of the  
appropriate employes groups will be made by the highest level below  
Officer of an authorized representative. The provisions of this Section shall  
not be subject to arbitration.  
416  
YO —  
  
54  
55  
97  
### Section A4.03 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAYMENTS (Continued)  
4d. «shall bé méintalned on an accumulative basis for each”  
appropriate employee group showing the distribution In terms of  
equivalent hours separately for 1) scheduled Sunday and Holiday  
work and other scheduled work paid for at the premium rate: 2) all  
non-scheduled work. When time worked dulng an employee's  
normal workweek results in pramlum payments for a scheduled day.  
only the premium portion shall be included in the list. Such lists shall  
be made available In a place mutually agresable for ready  
Inspection by any employee In the group.  
Except as provided for In Article 5, Section 5.04H of this Contract unless an  
employes fs given at least forty-eight (48) hours’ notice of a change in the  
days or hours the employee is scheduled to work, the employee will be  
permitted to work the days or hours originally scheduled and any other  
time which the is required to work shall be In addition to that  
originally scheduled.  
The foregoing paragraph will not apply following conditions:  
1. When changes in days to be worked are made at the employee's  
request, with the approval of supervision.  
2. When changes are made between day, evening or night shifts for  
which a premium is paid.  
3. When an employee is scheduled to work and Is excused with pay.  
The same conditions with respect to traveling time as covered in Articie 5,  
Section 5.04K of thls Contract will apply to all changes In starting time when  
the notification to the employee of such a change Is made after 11:00 P.M.  
and prior to 6:00 A.M., unless such notification is given the employee while  
at work.  
### Section ASSIGNMENT OF HEADQUARTERS  
A,  
Headquarters as used in this Section will be the exchanges to which the  
employee is permanently assigned.  
Each employee shall be assigned a headquarters at the time of hire.  
An employee's headquarters shall not be changed for a period of less than  
six (6) consecutive months except when the change Is made at the request  
of the employee.  
117  
oma On—  
A.  
Section Ad.05 SENIORITY  
Senlority, wherever used in this Contract shall mean net credited service as  
shown by the records of the Company.  
The provisions of this Sectlon may be suspended by the highest level  
below Officer or an authorized representative, when It is necessary to do so  
In connection with the protection of service. Should It become necessary  
to invoke this Section, the Union shal! bs as soon as It is  
practicable.  
Seniority shall Se considered In the assignment of hours within a shift  
among those qualified employees regulary assigned to the shiff,  
The Company shall take seniority into consideration in selecting employees  
for tralning. Nothing in this provision shall limit the Company's fight to  
select amployees for training who, In its judgment, are best qualifled to  
receive such training. Neither the provisions of this Section nor thelr  
application shalt be subject to arbitration.  
Whenever two (2) or more shifts which carry the same premium payments  
are scheduled for the same day, employees scheduled to work such shifts  
by the Company may exercise a choice of shifts, at the time work  
schedules are prepared, in the order of thelr seniosity provided thelr Job _  
— ~qualifications; as-determined by the Company, are adequate to meet the  
demands of the service.  
118  
### APPENDIX 8  
### PACIFIC BELL HOME ENTERTAINMENT  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
By WoOrklAg 120  
### 82 COMPACH MOGHICOHONS 120  
82.07 8 LAV ONS er 120  
82.03 Appendix C Compensation, Transfer and  
a2 sale Re 127  
52.04 Of 12?  
82.05 122  
B2.06 SONIOSHY sane 123  
82.07 123  
82.08 123  
B2.09 HOME 123  
119  
ah Gh —  
### APPENDIX B  
### SOUTHWESTERN BELL VIDEO SERVICES, INC.  
### DBA PACIFIC BELL HOME ENTERTAINMENT  
### WORKING CONDITIONS  
Section B1 The working conditions In this Section apply to Southwestern Bell Video,  
Inc. DBA Bell Hame Entertalnment employees who are represented by the  
Communications Workers of America in the following titles:  
Video Installer Warehouse Supplies Attendant  
Customer Service Technician Administrative Clerk  
Headend Technician  
### Section 82 CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS  
These titles will be administered in accordance with the provisions of the current  
collective borgaining agreement between Pacific Bell/Nevada Beli and the  
Communications Workers of America except as modifled below or as nocfled in fhe  
agreement,  
Section 82.01 ARTICLE & LAYOFFS  
_ -The provisions-of Article apply. The following layoff provisions will be in  
effect:  
A. In the event that the Company determines that a surplus exists and a  
decrease in the work force becomes necessary, the Company will first  
advise the Union in wilting with respect to the job title(s) and  
approximate numbers of employees affected, the location(s), and the  
anticipated force disposition date. The affected employee(s) will be  
notified not less than thirty (30) calendar days piios the date the  
employee(s) is to be lald off,  
&. Under the circumstances, set forth in Section 82.874 above, regular  
employees will be given preference, in accordance with their senlority,  
subject to thelr skills and experlence, to perform the remaining work In  
the event of a reduction in force. Temporary employees will be laid off  
under these circumstances before applying this seniority policy to regular  
employees.  
Cc. !f a surpius remains after the application of Section 82.078 above, any  
remaining surplus regular employees will be given priority consideration,  
by order of seniority, to fill any avallable lateral or downgrade job  
openings for which they are qualified.  
D. |f a surplus as described In Section 82.01A above, results in the layoff of  
regular employees the employees will be for a layoff allowance  
in accordance with the following:  
120  
mA eee eH Se  
  
47  
48  
49  
51  
52  
53  
55  
56  
57  
B2.01 ARTICLE 8 LAYOFFS (Continued)  
### Completed years of Layoff Allowance  
Continuous Service  
One (1) year but less than three (3) years $500.00  
three (3) years or more $1000.00  
Note: “Continuous Service” Is defined as the length of continuous, active  
service performed by an employee trom the last date on which such  
employee entered the service of the Company and since which there  
has been no break in service,  
### 82.02 APPENDIX A WORKING CONDITIONS  
The of this appendix will not apply.  
### Sectlon 82.03 APPENDIX C COMPENSATION, TRANSFER AND UPGRADES  
   
The provisions of this Appendix will opply except as follows:  
section C7 - Evening, Night and early Morning Differentials will not apply  
### SECTION 82.04 HOURS OF WORK  
A. The term shift means hours of work.  
B. Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, shall constitute a full  
shift,  
C. Work schedules shall be posted to show the scheduled shifts an employee is to  
work for a two-week period. Work schedules for the two-week period will be  
posted by noon on the Friday preceding the start of the two-week period,  
Changes to work schedules will nommally be posted with not tess than forty-  
eight (48) hours notice.  
D. <A day shift is a shift starting at or after 5:00 A.M. and prior to 12:00 noon.  
E. An evening shift ls a shift starting at or after 12:00 noon and nof later than 7:00  
P.M.  
F. A night shift is a shift starting after 7:00 P.M. and piior to 5:00 A.M.  
G. All shifts will be considered as falling within the calendar day on which the  
shift commences.  
H. The workweek shall normally consist of five (5) full shifts within a calendar  
week,  
Meal periods shali normally be one {1) hour. Where It Is desirabie to  
Implement meal periods of different lengths, the change will be negotiated  
with the Local Union. Meal perlods may be adjusted by mutual agreement  
between the employee and the supervisor.  
Meal period Intermission may be reduced by mutua! agreement between the  
employee and the supervisor.  
121  
QOOnonmnk —  
In those cases where an employee's scheduled meal period ts reduced,  
the employee shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half (1-  
1/2) for the portion of the scheduled meal period the employee works. If  
the employee prefers, his or her schedule shall be adjusted to reflect the  
reduced meoa/ period and earlier quitting time.  
2. In those cases where the employee requests the change, no premium  
payments will be tnvolved.  
### 10 SECTION 82.05 OVERTIME  
### WW  
12 A. Employees scheduled to work overtime will be paid in accordance with the  
13 following :  
14  
15 1. Hours worked In excess of eight (8) hours In a day shall be paid at the  
16 iate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for every such hour worked,  
17  
18 2: Hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours in a day for four (4) day a week  
19 employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’  
20 pay for every such hour worked.  
21  
22 3. Hours worked In excess of twelve (12) hours In a day shall be pald ai the  
23 rate of two (2) hours’ pay for every such hour worked.  
24 oe  
25 ~~ ~—s 4, Hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) hours in a day for four (4) day a  
26 week employees shall be paid at the rate of two (2) hours’ poy for every  
2? such hour worked.  
28  
29 Hours worked In excess of forty (40) hours In a workweek shall be paid at  
30 the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours’ pay for every such hour  
3] worked,  
32  
33 Not more than one (1) payment in excess of the basic rate of pay shall be  
34 paid for any one (1) hour worked.  
35  
36 The Company will endeavor to atstribute the opportunity to work extia time  
3? which requires payment at premium rates as equitably as the needs of the  
38 service will permit. The Company will determine the employes groups  
39 which are appropriate for this purpose. No grievance from the  
40 application or interpretation of this Section shall be to arbitration,  
A)  
42 C¢ Employees who are assigned standby duty will be paid $100 for each week  
43 of such assignment. This payment shall be in addition to any applicable  
44 compensation for such duty. In making assignments. Management will first  
45 ask for volunteers. In the absence of volunteers, Management will assign the  
46 standby duty in inverse order, insofar as the needs of the service  
47 and qualifications permit.  
48  
49  
50  
51]  
52  
53  
§4  
55  
a4 a  
57  
122  
  
SECTION 82.05 OVERTIME (Continued)  
ed  
   
D. Employees who are called for work, which requires thelt-immediate services, .  
shall be compensated at the emplicyee‘s applicable rate of pay (premium,  
holiday, straight-time, etc.) from the time of notification until their return to  
thelr residence. The minimum time paid for shall be two (2) hours. The  
minimum payment and travel time home will not apply if the time worked  
Immediately precedes the employee’s regular scheduled shift and the  
employee continues working into his/her regutar shift.  
Immediate services means the employee is able to report to work within one  
(1) hour or less.  
This section does not apply to pre-arranged overtime.  
### SECTION 82.06 SENIORITY  
A. Seniority, wherever used In this Contract, shall mean net credited service as  
shown by the records of the Company.  
B. Seniority shall be considered In the assignment of hours within a shift among  
those qualified employees regularly assigned to the shift.  
### SECTION 82.07 DIFFERENTIALS  
A, A night differential shall be paid to employees for each hour, of fraction  
thereof, worked 9:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. in the amount of ten (10)  
percent of the employee’s basic hourly rate.  
B, A Sunday differential shall be pald to employees for each hour, of fraction  
thereof, worked from 12:01 A.M. to 12:00 midnight on Sunday in the amount  
of ten (10) percent.  
### SECTION 82.08 HEADQUARTERS  
A. Headquarters as used in this Section will be o Specified Reporting Location  
(SRL) designated by the Company. Employees may have their SRL assignment  
changed, at the Company's discretion not more than two (2) times per  
calendar year. The new SRL shall not exceed twenty (20) miles from the  
previously assigned headquairtels.  
B. Headquarters for the purposes of Article 2, Force Allocation, shall be defined  
as the exchange in which the employee's assigned SRL is tocated.,  
### SECTION 82.09 HOME GARAGING  
A, The Home Garaging Program will be Implemented within administrative work  
unlfs where the Company determines that certain employees who use a  
Company vehicle for thelr job may be required to take the Company  
vehicle home as part of their normal responsibilities.  
B, Employees who participate in the Home Garaging Program will be expected  
to provide normally secure and legai storage of the vehicle at ths  
employse’s tesidence.  
123  
C,  
### SECTION 82.09 HOME GARAGING (Continued)  
Operating and maintenance costs will be at the Company’s expense. The  
employee Is responsible for adhering to preventative malntenance and  
vehicle inspection schedules and arnanging for any necessary work to be  
done In accordance with Company procedures.  
The vehicie is to be used solely for Company business and travel between  
the residence and his/her work iocation, Only properly  
authorized persons may ride In or operate the vehicle. Personal use of the  
vehicle is prohibited.  
For pay treatment purposes, the normal commute for employees who home  
garage a Company vehicle Is considered to be sixty (60) minutes or less for  
time spent commuting in each direction, reporting to work and driving  
home from the last work location. Time spent in excess of sixty (60) minutes  
driving into work and in excess of sixty (60) minutes driving home from work  
will be considered as time worked for pay treatment purposes. Employees  
who home garage a Company vehicle and arrive at thelr first work site  
before sixty (60) minutes have passed from leaving their home will be pald  
trom when they begin work at the first work location.  
Employees who home garage a Company vehicle may request removal  
from the home garaging requirement by providing a _written request-to thelr—-  
- -—  
supervisor... - The--employee “may be ‘relleved of the home garaging  
requirement if the Company approves the request.  
The Company will Indemnify and hold harmless from llabllity, employees who  
ore determined to be liable to others as a result of simple negligence when  
using a Company vehicle that is “home garaged" in the course and scope  
of their employment,  
124  
### APPENDIX C  
### ‘COMPENSATION, TRANSFER AND UPGRADES __  
125  
### SECTION PAGE  
### Cl GENERAL INCREASE 126  
### €1.01 MARCH 2007 GENERAL INCREASE 126  
### C1.02 OCTOBER 2007 GENERAL INCREASE 126  
### C1.03 2002 GENERAL INCREASE 126  
### C1.04 2003 GENERAL INCREASE 126  
### C1.05 MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE 127  
### MINIMUM WAGE RATE 327  
### C2 TITLES, WAGE SCHEDULES, TIME-IN-TITLE AND 128  
### PENSION BANDS  
### C3 WAGE SCHEDULES 130  
### C3.0] TRANSITION TO NEW WAGE SCHEDULES FROM  
### SUPERSEDED WAGE SCHEDULES 130  
### C4 CLASSIFICATION OF EXCHANGES BY AREA 148  
### C4,01 PACIFIC BELL - ZONE E 148  
### C4.02 PACIFIC BELL - ZONE F 148  
### C4.03 PACIFIC BELL - ZONE G 149  
### C4,04 NEVADA BELL  
### C5 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD 152  
### C5.01 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD - 152  
### C5,02 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD - COMPUTATIONS 156  
### Cé PENSION TABLE REVISIONS 158  
### C7 EVENING, NIGHT AND EARLY MORNING DIFFERENTIALS 159  
### C8 WAGE ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE 160  
C8.01 GENERAL 160  
### C8.02 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT TO A HIGHER-RATED SCHEDULE 16]  
### C8.03 EXCEPTIONS TO THE LIMITATIONS IN SECTION €8,02 163  
### C8.04 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT BETWEEN SCHEDULES  
### WITH THE SAME TOP RATE 163  
### C8.05 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT TO A LOWER-RATED  
### SCHEDULE 164  
### C806 RETREATS 164  
### APPENDIX C  
### Section Cl GENERAL INCREASE  
   
Basic wage increases will be as follows:  
Section C1.01 Morch 2007 GENERAL INCREASE  
A, ifnacrease Date 3/25/61  
8. All Stops  
Section C1.02 October 2007 GENERAL INCREASE  
A. increase Date 10/07/07  
8. Top Sfep 2.25%  
C. Bottom Step  
section Ct.03 2002 GENERAL INCREASE  
A. increase Date 7/34/02  
8, Top Step  
C. Step _  
   
section C1.04 £003 GENERAL INCREASE  
   
A. increase Date 6/22/03  
8. Top step  
€. Bottom step  
126  
### Section C}.05 MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE  
=~  
A. 2003 Minimum General increases  
Any employee on the payroll on the effective date of the March 2001 or the October  
200! wage increase will at a minimum, a $2.50 increase in their weekly  
wages even though the applicable wage step on the schedule is increased by a  
lesser amount. The $2.50 weekly minimum will be prorated for part-time employees  
based on their average workweek as of the date of the increase.  
B. 2002 and 2003 Minimum General increase  
Any employee on the payroll on the effective date of fhe July 14, 2002 or  
June 22, 2003 wage increases will receive, at a minimum, a $5.00 Increase In their  
weekly wages even though the applicable wage step on the schedule is Increased  
by a lesser amount. The $5.00 weekly minimum will be prorated for part-time  
employees based on thelr average workweek as of the date of the Increases,  
### Section €1.06 MINIMUM WAGE RATE  
Alf employees will be paid at a minimum weekly wage according to the following  
schedule, even though of the General increase C1.83 ond C1,04) and  
any Minimum General increase (C 1.08) would have resulted in a lower weekly wage.  
Effective Minimum  
Date Weekly Rate  
3/25/01 $246.00  
7/44/02 $270.00  
6/22/03 $290.00  
For their next progression increase only, employees whose wage rate was changed dve  
fo the minimum wage rates in this section (C1.06) will receive no fess than a $10.00  
progression increase.  
        
         
     
127  
section C2  
Titles  
Accounting Associate  
Accounting Specialist  
Administrative Clark (PBHE only)  
Analyst  
Assignment Administrator  
Bullding Mechanic  
Bullding Specialist  
Cashist  
Central Office Associate  
Collection Representative  
Collection Representative —  
Bilingual  
Collector  
Combination Technician (Nevada Oniy)  
Communications Technictan  
Company Telecommunications  
Technician  
Computer Operator  
Copy Service Artist  
Customer Associate  
.. Customer Representative ~  
Customer —  
Bilingual  
Customer Service Associate  
Customer Service Techniclan (PBHE Onty)  
Dota Entry Associote  
Data Administrator  
Data Speciallst  
Oriver  
Engineering  
Enginesting Assistant  
Enginesting Cost Associate  
Equipment Installation Technician  
Equipment Specialist  
— a - -  
128  
### TITLES, WAGE SCHEDULES, TIME-IN-TITLE AND PENSION BANDS  
Wage § Timeln Pension Band Page  
schedule fIitle ZONEE ZONEF ZONEG Nevada Number  
WS6 12 W2 11) 110 109 134  
Wwsé 15 114 113 112 136  
W521 12 105 105 lod 143  
WS12 24 122 121 120 119 141  
WwS1) 18 12) 120 119 118 140  
W513 18 121 120 119 118 140  
WS$12 24 122 12) 120 119 14]  
WS4 12 110 109 108 107 132  
WS5 12 110 109 108 108 133  
W57 15 113 112 111 110 135  
WSs7 5 F723 TH? 73S  
WS9 18 114 113 112 112 137  
WS$12 24 122 12) 120 W¢9 14]  
W512 24 122 12) 120 119 14]  
WS12 24 122 121 120 119 14]  
WSé 12 112 111 110 109 134  
WS12 24 122 121 120 119° 141  
W842 -109- — 108-~ ~ 1077 ~~ 132  
WS? 1§ 113 112 177 110 135  
WS7 15 713 172 i? rio 135  
W54 12 110 109 108 107 132  
WS$27 18 116 115 114 146  
WS4 12 110 109 108 107 132  
WSé6é 12 12 11 110 109 134  
15 11d 113 112 136  
ws8 15 114 113 112 111 136  
WS6 12 12 11} 110 109 134  
ws12 24 122 12} 120 119 14}  
WS7 18 113 112 11 110 135  
WS$12 24 122 121 120 119 141  
W312 24 122 121 120 119 14]  
### section C2 TITLE, WAGE SCHEDULES, TIME-IN-TITLE AND PENSION BANDS  
oe (Continued)  
Wage Time tn Pension Band Page ---  
Titles Schedule Title ZONEE ZONEF ZONEG Nevada Number  
Facilltles Administrators WS11 18 121 120 19 118 140  
Facilltles WS9 18 114 113 132 112 137  
FACS Administrator WS11 18 121 120 119 118 140  
Fleid Job Administrator WST7 18 12] 120 779 178 140  
Garage Attendant WS4 12 110 109 108 107 132  
Garage Mechanic WS$11 18 121 120 119 118 140  
Headend Technician (PBHE only) WS29 18 120 ri?  
HR Operations Associate WSS 12 Tid 109 708 108 133  
Information Processor W54 12 110 109 108 10? 132  
Maintenance Administrator Ws8 15 11d 113 112 111 136  
Medica! Assistant WS6 12 112 11] 119 10? 134  
Messenger (Motorized) W54 12 110 109 108 107 132  
Network Maintenance Specialist WSId 78 WIS iid 733 138  
Office Associate WS4 12 110 109 108 107 132  
Operations Administrator WS6 12 112 11 1410 109 134  
Operations Speciailst WSs8 15 tld 113 112 111 136  
Operator WS3 9 108 108 ‘ 107 106 131  
Order Writer WSS 12 112 113 110 109 134  
Outside Piant Technician W311 16 121 119 118 = (140  
Production Representative W512 24 122 12) 120 19 141  
Provisioning Specialist Wwsé 1S 773 THT 136  
Reports Associate WS4 12 10 109 108 107 132  
RCMA Administrator wss 16 113 112 111 136  
Eff. WS9 is 114 773 172 737  
Salas and Service WST? 24 176 Wis Td 733 738  
Representative — Eff.  
10/7/01 WSX 24 137 136 TiS 734 13?  
Service Assistant WS5 12 110 109 108 108 133  
Service Assistant = 8flingual WS5 2 Te? 108 108 433  
Service Representative WS10 24 116 115 114 113 138  
Eff. 10/7/01 WSX 24 117 114 39  
Services Spectalilst ws4 12 110 109 108 107 132  
services Technician W571 18 12) 120 119 118 140  
Splicing Technician WS$12 24 122 12] 120 119 141  
Staff Associate WS4 12 110 109 108 tO? 432  
Assistant WS6 12 112 111 110 109 134  
Supply Service Attendant WS? 18 114 113 112 112 137  
Supply Specialist-Nevada WS10 18 - - - 113 138  
Systems Technician WS12 24 122 12) 120 W9 14}  
Systems Technician - Data WSI2 24 122 127 Hig 47  
Communications  
Testing Technician WS12 24 122 121 120 119 14]  
Translations Operator Ws3 9 108 108 107 106 131  
Video installer Only) WS25 78 iva 1a9 108 -- 14S  
Warehouse Supplies Atfendant WSZ3 72 ios 107 106 - 144  
(PBHE Only)  
Wage Time in Pension Page  
Titles Schedule _— Title Band Number  
Maintenance Notification  
Associate (PBIS-MNG Onty) WS IS 12 32 142  
129  
Section C3  
|  
### WAGE SCHEDULES  
### Section C3.01 TRANSITION TO NEW WAGE SCHEDULES FROM SUPERSEDED  
### WAGE SCHEDULES  
Effective March 25, 2007  
Effective October 7, 2007  
Effective July 14, 2002  
Effective June 22, 2003  
A. The existing wage schedules for all employees will be Increased (by step and zone)  
effectlve March 25, 2001, October 7, 2001, July 14, 2002, and June 22, 20038.  
The guidelines for administering these wage rates are as follows:  
3.  
r  
—— ie  
-_— =  
Employees engaged prior to the effective date of the new wage  
schedule ...  
a. First, should receive any wage adjustment they normally would have  
recelved (on the old schedule) as of thelr scheduled Increase date.  
b, should then be placed on the same step of the new Wage Schedule as  
they are on the old move from Step 6 to Step 6). | _  
— =  
—  
-_ =  
—  
- -  
—- - = - =  
—-ae  
—_  
¢: “Employees should then progress on the new schedule In the same  
manner as on the old schedule, carrying with them the time already  
accrued on that step.  
EXAMPLE: An employee with four (4) months on Step 2 would move to  
Step 2 on the new schedule and would progress to Step 3 after the  
completion of two more months.  
lf an employee Is on Short-Term Disabliity benefits as of one of the wage  
increase effective dates, wage changes will be made effective on the date  
that the employee returns from absence.  
An employes hired after one of the wage increases stated above becomes  
effective should be placed on the new wage schedule by the appropriate Job  
title, wage zone and, if applicable. wage credit, effective on thelr date of  
hire,  
In no case should any employee's wages be increased to a rate higher than  
the top rate of the new appropriate wage schedule.  
130  
Wage Schedule 3  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6: MONTHS. -  
   
siep#  
    
Om & Gb —  
   
   
    
step#  
1  
    
    
aon & tA f G AO  
    
   
    
    
### IPA  
1,973.00  
1.939,00  
    
1,884.50  
1,840.00  
~  
   
   
      
    
   
2.072,50  
   
   
1,978.50  
   
Nevada  
280.50  
313.50  
350.50  
392.00  
438.00  
490.00  
947.50  
612.50  
684,50  
zone E Zone F ZoneG Nevada | Step# ZoneeE zone F Zone G  
301,50 295,50 287.00 280.50 1 301.50 295.50 287.00  
336.00 329,50 320.50 342,50 2 337,00 330.50 321.00  
374.50 367.00 357.00 349,00 3 376,50 369.50 359.00  
417.00 409.50 398.00 388.50 4 421.00 413.00  
465.00 456.50 443.50 433,50 5 470.50 441,50 448.50  
518.50 509.00 494,50 483.00 6 526.00 516.00 501.50  
578.00 567.00 §51.50 §38.50 7 587.50 577,00 560.50  
644.06 632.50 614.50 601,00 8 656.50 645.50 627,00  
718.00 705.50 685.50 669.50 9 734.00 721.50 701,00  
IPA 1,915.50 1,883.00 1,829.50 1,786.50  
Zone E Zone F zZoneG Nevada | Step# Zoneé Zone F zoneG Nevada  
301.50 295.50 287.00 280.50 1 307.50 295.50 287 .00* 280.50*  
338.00 331.50 322.00 314,50 2 340,50 333.50 324,00 316.50  
379.50 372,00 361.50 353.00 3 384,00 376.50 346.00 357.50  
425.50 417.50 405.50 396.50 4 433.50 426.00 413.00 403,50  
477.50 468.50 455.00 444.50 5 489,50 480.00 466.50 456.00  
535.50 526.00 511.00 499.00 6 §22.00 942.00 514,50  
601.00 590.00 573.50 560.00 7 623,50 612.00 §94,50 581.00  
674.00 662,00 643,50 628.50 8 703.50 691.00 671.50 656.00  
756.00 743,00 722.00 705.00 9 794.00 780.00 758.00 740,50  
1,932.50  
   
      
    
   
Pension Bands:  
Zone E Zone F Zone G Nevada Job Titles Time In Title  
108 108 107 106 Operator 9  
Translations Operator* 9  
* Subject to Minimum Wage Rate in Section C 1.06  
“Translations Operator title receives a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage rate  
a! all steps effective April 2007  
131  
   
Wage schedule 4  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
   
   
OOn oak @N =  
     
   
     
     
   
Step#  
   
    
       
    
     
   
Penston Bands:  
   
       
   
    
Nevada  
   
292.00  
910.00  
570.50  
637.50  
713.00  
Zone E zone F Zone G Nevada | Step# Zone et zone F zone G  
314.50 308.50 299,50 292.00 1 314.50 308.50 299.50  
351,00 343,50 334,00 326.00 2 351.50 345.00 335,00  
391.00 383.50 372.50 363,00 3 393.00 385.50 374.50  
435.50 427,50 415.00 405.00 4 439.00 431.00 418.50  
485.50 476.50 463.00 451.50 5 491.00 481.50 468.00  
541,50 531.00 516.00 503.50 6 549.00 538.50 523.50  
603.50 592.00 575,50 561.50 7 613.50 602.00 585.00  
672.50 660.00 - 641,50 626.00 8 685.50 672.50 654.00  
749,50 735.50 715,50 697.50 9 765.50 752.00 731.50  
TPA 2,000.50 1,962.50 1,909.00 1,861.00  
Step# Zone E Zone F ZoneG Nevada | Step# ZoneeE Zone F ZoneG Nevada  
1 314.50 308.50 299.50 292.00 1 314.50 308.50 299.50 292.00  
2 353.00 346,00 336.00 327.50 2  -338.00 329.50  
3 396.00 388,50 377.00 367.50 _3. 400.50. - - -393.00-- ~ | 372.00  
|. .4 ----444,00--— -435:50 ~ 4 452.50 443.50 431.00 420.50  
5 498.50 489.00 475.00 463.00 5 510.50 §01.00 486.50 474.50  
6 559.00 548.50 §33.00 519.50 6 576.50 §65.50 549.50 535.50  
7 627.00 615.50 598.50 583,00 7 650.50 638.00 620,50 605.00  
8 703.50 690.50 673.50 654.50 8 734,50 720.50 700.50 683.00  
9 789,50 774.50 753.50 734.50 9 629.00 813.00 791.00 771.00  
TPA 2,060.50 2,021.50 1.96650 1,917.00 | JPA 2,163.50 2,122.00 2,064.50 2,012.50  
   
Zone E Zone F Zone G Nevada  
110 109 108 107  
Job Titles Time in Title Job Titles Time in Title  
Cashier 12 Messenger (Motorlzed) 12  
Customer Associate 12 Office Associate 12  
Customer Serv. Assoc. 12 Reports Associate 12  
Data Entry Associate 12 services Specialist 12  
Garage Attendant 12 Staff Associate 12  
Information Processor 12  
432  
Wage Schedule 5  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
   
Step#  
   
### OOnN ON —  
   
     
    
   
   
### IPA  
2,073.50  
   
   
2,032.00  
   
          
1,973.00  
   
1936.50  
### IPA  
   
   
   
2,176.50 2,133.50  
2,072.50  
Nevada  
295.00  
330.00  
369.00  
412.50  
461.00  
515.50  
976.50  
644,50  
720.50  
Zone E Zone F Zone G Nevade | Step# ZoneeE Zone F zone G  
315.50 309.50 301.00 295.00 1 335.50 309,50 301.00  
352.00 345.50 335.50 328.50 2 353.00 346.00 336.50  
392,50 385.00 374.00 366,50 3 394.50 387.00 376,06  
437,50 429,00 417.00 408.50 4 441.00 432.50 420.50  
488.00 478,50 464.50 455.50 5 493.50 483,50 470.00  
544.00 533,50 518.00 508.00 é 551.50 541,00 525.50  
607.00 594,50 578.00 566.50 7 617.00 604,50 §87.50  
676.50 663.00 644,00 632,00 8 690.00 676.00 656,50  
754.50 739.50 718.00 704,50 9 771.50 756.00 734,00  
     
    
   
IPA 2,013.50 1,973.00 1,915.50 1,880.50  
Step# Zone E Zone F zoneG Nevada | Step# Zone F zoneG Nevada  
1 315,50 309.50 301.00 295,00 1 315.50 309.50 303,00 295.00  
2 354.00 347.50 337,50 331,00 2 356.50 349.50 340,00 333.00  
3 397,50 390.00 379,00 371.50 3 402,50 394,50 383,50 376.00  
4 446.00 437,50 425,00 417.00 4 454,50 445.50 433.00 424,50  
5 500.50 491.00 477.00 468.00 5 513.00 503.00 489.00 479.50  
6 562.00 551.00 535.00 525.00 6 579.00 568.00 §52.00 541,00  
7 630.50 616.00 600.50 589.00 7 654.00 641.50 623.00 611.00  
8 708.00 693.50 674.00 661.00 8 738.50 724,00 703.50 690.00  
9 794.50 778.50 756.00 742,00 9 834.00 817.50 794,00 779.00  
   
2,033.00  
     
Pension Bands:  
   
zone E zone F zone G Nevada Job Titles Time in Title  
110 1Q9 108 108 Central Office Associate 12  
HP Operations Associate  
service Assistant 12  
Service Assistant-8ilingual* 12  
* Service Assistant-Bilingual tite receives a $25/week language payment in addition to their basic wage  
fate at all steps effective April 2007  
133  
Wage schedule 6  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
Stap#  
Oown enh wn —  
   
   
### TPA  
   
2,171.50  
          
   
2,430,00  
2,063.00  
   
2,015.00  
     
### TPA  
2,280.00  
   
2,237.00  
zone E Zone F Zone G Nevada | Step# ZoneE — ZoneF zoneG Nevada  
330.00 324,00 314.50 307.50 1 330.00 324,00 314.50 307.50  
368.00 361.00 651.00 342,50 2 369.00 362.50 351,50 343,50  
410.50 403.00 391.00 382,00 3 413.00 405.00 393.00 384,00  
458.00 449,50 436.00 426.00 4 461.50 453.00 439.50 429.50  
510.50 501.00 486.00 475.00 5 §16.50 506.50 491.50 480.00  
569.50 558.50 541.50 §29.50 577.50 566.50 549.50 536.50  
635.00 622.50 604.00 590.00 7 646.00 633.50 614.00 600.00  
708,50 694.50 673.00 657,50 8 722.50 708.50 686.50 670.50  
790,00 774.50 750.50 733,00 9 808.00 792.00 767.50 749,50  
   
TPA 2,109.00 2,067.00 2,003.00 1,956.00  
Step# Zone E Zone F ZoneG | Step# ZoneeE Zone F zZoneG Nevada  
T 330.00 324.00 314,50 307.50 1 330,00 324.00 314,50 307,50  
2 370,50 363,50 353,00 345.00 2. 372,50 366.00° 347.00  
3 416,00 408.00 396.00 —__387.00.- }. --3-. -—.421:00:-—- - ~401.00 392.00  
-@— ~7 458.00 444,50 434.50 4 475.50 464.50 452.50 442.50  
5 §24.00 514.00 498.50 487.00 § 537.00 §27.00 511.00 497.00  
6 588.00 577.00 §59.50 946.50 6 506.50 595.00 577.00 563.50  
7 660.50 647.50 628.00 613.50 7 685.00 672.00 651.00 636.00  
8 741.00 727.00 704,50 6838.00 8 773.50 759.00 735.00 718.00  
9 632.00. 816.00 790.50 772.00 9 873.50 857.00 830.00 810.50  
      
2,166.50 2,215.50  
   
— ee  
Pension Bands:  
zone E Zone F zone G Nevada  
Fi2 111 110 109  
Job Tittes Time in fitle Job Titles Time In Title  
Accounting Associate 12 Medical Assistant 12  
Computer Operator 12 Operations Administrator 12  
Dota Administrator 12 Order Witter 12  
Engineering Administrator 12 Supervisor’s Assistant 12  
134  
...Wage Schedule 7  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS ~~  
   
Step#  
   
~oaweahkL. Wh —  
   
     
    
      
   
### IPA  
   
2,235.50  
   
2,192,50  
   
   
2,190.00  
     
       
    
   
   
   
2,090.50 | JPA  
   
   
   
2,347.50 2,302.00 2,237.00  
   
   
Zone E Zone F Zone G Nevada | Step#  ZoneeE zone F ZoneG Nevada  
341.50 334.50 324.50 318.00 1 341.50 334,50 324.50 318.00  
381.00 373.00 361.50 355.00 2 381.50 374,00 363.00 355.50  
424,50 415,50 403.50 396.00 3 426.50 418.00 405.50 397.50  
473.00 443.50 450.00 441.00 4 477,00 467.00 453.50 444,50  
527.00 516.50 - 501.50 492.00 5 533.00 §22.60 507.00 497.00  
587.50 576.00 559.00 §49.00 6 595.50 584.00 567.00 556.00  
654.50 642.00 623.00 611.50 7 665.50 452.50 633.50 622.00  
729.50 715.50 694.50 682.00 8 744.00 729.50 708.50 695.50  
813.00 797,50 774,50 760.50 9 831.50 815.50 792.00 777,50  
FPA 2,170,00 2,128.50 2,029.50  
Siep# Zone E Zone F zoneG Nevado | Step#  ZoneeE ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
] 341.50 334,50 324.50 318.00 1 341.50 334.50 324.50 318.00  
2 383.00 375.50 364.00 357.00 2 385.50 377.50 366.50 359.00  
3 430.00 421.00 408.50 400.50 3 435.00 426.00 413.50 405.50  
4 482.00 472,50 458,50 449,50 4 491.00 481,00 467,00 458.00  
5 543.00 530.00 514.50 504.50 § §54.00 §43.00 §27,50 517.00  
6 606,50 994,50 577.50 566.50 $ 625.50 613.00 595.50 584,00  
7 680,50 667.50 48.00 636,00 7 706.00 692.00 672.50 659.50  
8 763.50 748.50 727.00 713.50 8 797.00 781.50 759,00 744.50  
9 856.50 840.00 816.00 801.00 9 899.50 882.00 857.00 841.00  
   
2,195.00  
   
Pension Bands:  
Zone E zoneF ZzoneG Nevada Job Tittes Time In Title  
113 1t2 W111 110 Representative 18  
Collection Representative- Bilingual* iS  
Customer Representative 16  
Customer Representative- Bilingual* 1S  
Engineering Cost Associate 15  
* Collection Representative-Biliingual and Customer Representative-&ilingual tiles receive a $25/week  
payment? in addition fo their basic wage rate af all steps effective April 2007.  
136  
Wage Schedule 8  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
Step# zone t zone F zone G Nevada | Step# ZoneE Zone F zoneG Nevada  
] 319.50 313.00 305.50 299.00 } 319.50 313.00 305.50 299.00  
2 391.50 345.00 336.00 329.00 2 352.50 345.50 337.00 330.00  
3 387.00 379.50 370.50 362.00 3 389.00 381.00 372,00 364.00  
4 426,00 417.50 407.50 399.00 4 429.00 420,50 410.00 401.50  
5 469,00 460.00 448.50 439.00 5 473.50 464.00 452.50 443.00  
é §16.00 506.50 493.50 483.00 & §22.50 512,00 499.00 489.00  
7 568.00 558.00 §43.00 §32.00 7 576.50 545.00 550.50 539.50  
8 626.00 614.00 598.00 §85.50 8 636.00 623.50 607.50 595.00  
> 689.00 676.50 658.50 644,50 9 701.50 688.00 670,00 656.50  
10 758.50 744,50 724.50 710.00 0 774.00 759,50 739.00 724.00  
1 835.00 819.50 797.50 781.50 VW 854.00 838.00 815.50 799.00  
IPA 2,229.00 2,187.00 2,128.50 2,085.50  
Step# zone E Zone F Zone G Nevada | Step# ZoaneE Zone F ZoneG Nevada{  
1 319.50 313.00 ~ 305.50" 299.00 | _ 299.00  
a 353:50- --- 346;50 ~ ~ “338.00 331,00 2 355,50 348.00 339.50 332.50  
3 391.00 —° 383.50 374.00 366.00 3 395.00 387.00 377.50 369.50  
4 433.00 424,50 414.00 405.00 4 439.50 430,50 420.00 411.00  
5 479.00 469.50 458.00 448.50 488.50 479.00 467.00 457.00  
6 530.00 519,50 §06.50 496.00 & 543.00 532.50 519.00 508,50  
7 §86.50 575.00 §60.50 §49.00 7 604,00 §92.00 577.00 545.00  
8 649.00 636.50 620.00 607.50 8 671.50 658.50 641.50 628.50  
9 718.50 704,50 686.00 672.00 9 747.00 732,50 713.50 699,00  
10 795.00 780.00 759.00 743.50 10 830,50 814.50 793.50 777.00  
11 879,50 863.00 840,00 823.00 11 923.50 906.00 882.00 864.00  
TPA 2,295.50 2,252.50 2,192.50 2,748.00 TPA 2,410.50 2,364.50 2,302.00 2,255.00  
Pension Bands:  
zone E ZoneF Zones Nevada Job Titles Time in Tile  
13 142 111 Accounting Specialist 1§  
Data Specliatis! 15  
Driver 15  
Maintenance Administrator 15  
Operations Speclailst 16  
RCMA Administrator 15  
Provisioning Specialist 1S  
*RCOMA Administrator fife moves fo WS9 effective January 2002  
136  
te  
    
Wage Schedule 9  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6-MONTHS-- -  
Step#  
= —  
      
### IPA  
2,317.50 2,273.50 2,220.00  
   
   
   
2,178.00 | FPA  
    
    
2,434.00  
    
        
2,387.00  
   
Nevada  
303.50  
335.00  
369.50  
407.50  
449.50.  
496,00  
547,00  
603.50  
665.50  
734,50  
810.00  
Zone E Zone F Nevada | Step# ZoneE Zone F zone G  
323.00 336.50 309.00 303.50 ] 323.00 316.50 309.00  
355.50 349.00 340,00 334.00 2 356.50 349.00 341.00  
391.00 383.50 374,50 367.50 3 393.00 385.00 376.00  
430.50 422.50 412.00 404.50 4 433.50 425.00 415.00  
474.00 465.00 454.00 445.00 5 478.50 469.06 458.00  
§21.50 512.00 499,50 490.00 & 527.50 517.50 505.00  
574.50 553.50 550,00 539.50 7 582.00 570.50 557.00  
632.00 620.00 605,50 594,00 8 642.00 629.50 614.50  
695.50 683.00 666.00 654.00 9 708.50 694.50 678.00  
766.00 751.50 733,50 719,50 10 781,50 766.50 748.00  
843.00 827.00 807.50 792,00 1 862,00 845,50 825,50  
   
IPA 2,250.00 2,207.00 2,154.50 2,114.00  
Siep# Zone E Zone F zZoneG Nevada | Step# ZoneeE zone F zoneG Nevada  
1 323.00 316,50 309.00 303.50 1 323.00 316.50 309.00 303.50  
2 357.50 350.00 342.00 334,00 Zz 359.00 392.00 343.50 337,50  
3 395.50 387.50 378.50 371.50 3 399.50 391.50 382.00 375.00  
4 437.50 429.00 418,50 411.00 4 444.00 435.00 425.00 417.00  
5 484.00 474.50 443,50 455.00 5 493.50 484,00 472.50 464,00  
é 535.50 §25.00 512.50 503.50 6 549.00 538.00 525.50 515.50  
7 592.50 581.00 567.50 557.00 7 610.00 598.00 584.00 573,50  
8 655.50 643.00 627,50 616.00 8 678.50 665.00 649.50 437,50  
9 725.50 711.50 694,50 681.50 ? 754.50 739.560 722,00 708.50  
10 802.50 787.00 768.50 754,00 10 833.50 822.50 803.00 788.00  
11 888.00 871.00 850,50 834.50 i 932.50 914,50 893.00 876.00  
2,330.50 2,286.50  
   
   
Pension Bands:  
Zone £ Zone F zone G Nevada Job Tities Time in Title  
134 113 112 112 Collector 18  
Technician 18  
Supply Service Attendant 18  
RCMA Administrator* 78  
*RCOMA Administrator tiie moved to WS? effective January 2002  
137  
Wage Schedule 10  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
       
1  
oon oak Wh  
WH —  
      
### IPA  
Stepé  
Step#  
zone E  
370.00  
415.00  
465.50  
657.00  
737.00  
827,00  
927.50  
Pension Bands:  
zone E  
116  
"522,00  
586.00 |  
zone F  
115  
Zone F  
362.50  
406.50  
456.50  
512.00  
574.50  
644.50  
723.00  
B11.50  
910.50  
~  
zone G  
352.00  
395.00  
443.00  
497,50  
558.00  
626.00  
702.50  
788.50  
884.50  
Zone &  
114  
341.00  
382,50  
429.50 |  
“482.00  
541.00  
607.50  
681.50  
765,00  
858.50  
2,421.00 2,376.50 2,30850 2,240.50 | JPA  
zone E  
370.00  
417.50  
471.50.  
532.00  
600.50  
677.50  
764.50  
863.00  
974.00  
IPA 2,307.00  
Effective July 2002 Effective June 2003  
Nevada | Sten#  
2,240.50  
Zone F zone G  
362.50 352.00  
409.00 397,50:  
-— 462,00- -- 448;50-  
§21.50 506.50  
§88.50 §71.50  
664.50 645.50  
750.00 728.50  
847.00 822,50  
956.00 928.50  
Nevada  
341.00  
381.50  
426.50  
477.00  
233.00  
596.00  
666.50  
745.50  
833.50  
zone E zone F zone S Nevada | Step# ZoneeE ZoneF . ZzZoneG  
370.00 362.50 352,00 341.00 1 370,00 362.50 352.00  
412,00 404.50 392,00 380.50 2 413.50 405.00 393.50  
459.50 450.50 437.50 424.50 3 462.00 453,00 440.00  
512.00 502.50 487,50 473.00 4 516.50 506.50 491.50  
570.50 560.00 543,50 527.50 5 577.00 566.00 549.50  
636.00 624,00 606.00 588.00 6 645.00 633,00 614,50  
709.00 695,50 675.00 655.50 7 721.00 707.50 687,00  
790.00 775.50 753.00 731.00 8 805.50 791.00 748.00  
880.50 864.50 839.50 815.00 9 900,50 884.00 858.50  
2,175.50  
Nevada  
341.00  
385:00  
—435;  
491.00  
798.50  
901.50  
            
       
   
     
    
—— -  
    
Nevoda Job Titles  
113. Network Maintenance Specialist  
Soles and Service Representative —  
**  
service Representative*  
Supply Specialist-Nevada  
2,542.00 2,495.00 2,423.50  
Time in Title  
18  
2,353.00  
24  
24  
18  
* The lites of Service Representative and Sales and Service move to Wage  
Schedule X in October 2007  
** Sales and Service Representative -Bilingual receives a $25/week language payment in addition to  
their basic wage tote at all steps effective April 2007  
    
Schedule X  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS-  
   
step#  
    
oon Oo Oh UN —  
    
   
### IPA  
2,517.50  
   
2,471.50  
2,400.00  
   
2,329.50  
   
Step#  
   
  
   
     
   
Zone E  
370.00  
415,50  
466.50  
524.00  
588.50  
661,00  
742.50  
834.00  
936.50  
2,642.50  
Zone F  
342.50  
407.00  
457.50  
514.00  
577,50  
648.50  
728.50  
818.50  
919.50  
2,595.50  
   
Zone G  
352.00  
395,50  
444,00  
499,00  
960,50  
629,50  
707,50  
794.50  
892.50  
       
   
Effective October 2001  
Nevada  
347.00  
383.00  
430.50  
484.00  
543.50  
611.00  
686.50  
771.00  
866.50  
TPA 2,400.00 2,329.50 2,261.50  
Zone E Zone F ZoneG Nevada | Step# Zone £ zone F zoneG Nevada  
370,00 362.50 352.00 341.00 ] 370.00 342.50 352,00 341.00  
417.00 408.50 397.00 3864.50 2 419,50 411.00 399,50 387.00  
470.00 461.00 447.50 433.50 3 474.00 466.50 453,00 439.00  
530.00 519.50 504.50 489.00 4 539.50 §29.50 514.00 498.00  
597,50 §846.00 569.00 551.50 5 612.00 600,50 583.00 565.50  
673.50 60,50 641.50 422.00 6 694.00 681.00 661.50 641.50  
75?.00 745,00 723.50 701.50 7 787.00 772.50 750.00 728.00  
855.50 840.00 815.50 791.50 8 893.00 876.50 851.00 826.00  
964.50 947.00 919.50 892.50 > 1012.50 994.50 965,50 937.00  
        
     
2,520.00 2,445.50  
     
Pension Bands:  
zone E Zone F ZoneG Nevada  
147 116 115 114  
Job Titles Time in Title  
Sales and Service Represenmative-Bilingual,*™* 24  
Service Representative 24  
* the tiles of Service Representative and Sales and Service Representative-Bilingual move from Wage  
Schedule 10 in October of 2001.  
* Sales and Service Represeniative-Bllingual receives a $25/week language payment in addition fo their  
basic wage rate at aif sfeps effective April 2001.  
139  
Wage schedule 11  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
          
Step#  
### STO  
   
### IPA  
2,654.50  
2,606.00  
       
Nevada  
357.00  
394.00  
434.50  
479.50  
529.00  
583.50  
644,00  
710.50  
783.50  
864.50  
954.00  
Zone E Zone F ZoneG Nevada | Step# ZoneE Zone F zone G  
380.50 373.50 363.50 357.00 ] 380.50 373.50 363.50  
418.50 411.00 400.50 393.00 2 420,00 412.00 401.00  
461.00 452.50 440.50 432.50 3 463,00 454,50 442.50  
507.50 498.50 485.00 476.50 4 511.00 501.50 488.00  
559.00 548.50 534.00 §24.50 5 564.00 553.50 538.50  
615.00 604.00 588.00 §77.50 6 622,00 610,50 594.50  
677,50 664,50 647.00 635.50 7 686.50 674.00 655.50  
745.50 732,00 712.50 699.00 8 757.00 743,50 723.50  
820.50 806.00 784,00 769.50 9 835.50 820.00 798.00  
903.00 887.00 863.00 847.50 10 922.00 905.00 880.50  
994.50 976.50 950.00 933.00 1} 1017.00 998.50 971.50  
      
    
   
    
    
     
    
     
   
     
     
            
               
2,535.50 2,490.00  
Effective July 2002 Effective June 2003  
       
   
    
    
     
   
   
Step# Zone E zone F zone G Nevoda | Step#  ZoneeE Zone F zone & Nevada  
1 380.50 373.50 363.50 357.00. |. _l- —.-380.50—— 373,50 — --363:50 ~~ 357.00  
-|- “42007 413,50 402.00 395.00 2 423,00 415.50 404.00 397.00  
3 466.00 457,50  . 445.00 © 437.00 3 470.50 462.00 449,50 441.50  
4 515.50 506.00 492.50 483.50 4 923.00 513.50 500.00 491.00  
§ 570.50 540.00 545.00 535.00 5 582.00 -§71.00 §45.50  
& 631.50 620,00 603.00 592.00 6 647.00 635.00 618.00 607.00  
7 698.50 6846.00 667.50 655.50 7 719.50 706.50 687,00 675.00  
8 773.00 759.00 738.50 725.00 8 800.00 785.50 764,00 750.56  
9 855.50 840.00 817.00 802.50 9 873.50 849,50 834.50  
10 946.50 929.50 904.00 888.00 10 989,00 971.00 944.50 927.50  
1] 1047.50 1028.50 1000.56 982.50 11 1100,00 1080.00 1050.50 1031.50  
      
           
=  
  
2,664.50 2,611.50 2,564.50 | JPA 2,871.00 2,819.00 2,742.00 2,692.00  
Pension Bands:  
Zone E zone F zone G Nevada  
121 120 119 118  
Job Tliles Time in Title Job Titles Time In Title  
Assignment Administrator 18 Fieid Job Administrator 18  
Building Mechanic 18 Garage Mechanic 18  
Facilities Administrator 18 Outside Plant Technician 18  
FACS Administrator 18 Services Technician 18  
* FACS Administrator receives a $5/week basic wage job differential al top pay step.  
140  
Wage Schedule 12  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS ©  
### TPA  
   
2,833.00  
2,777.00  
2,701.50  
   
2,649.00  
  
~—  
Step# zone E Zone F Zone G Nevada | Step# Zone F Zone G  
} 394.50 386.50 ~ 376.00 368.00 1 394.50 386.50 376.00  
2 434.50 425.50 413.50 405.50 2 435.00 426.50 415.00  
3 478,50 468.50 455.50 446.50 3 480.00 470.50 457.50  
4 - §15.50 501.50 491.50 4 530.00 519.00 505.00  
5 979.50 567.50 552.50 541.00 5 584.50 572.50 557.00  
6 638.00 625.00 608.00 §95.50 é 645.00 632.00 614.50  
7 702.50 688.00 669.00 656.00 7 711.50 697.00 678.00  
8 773.00 757.50 736.50 722,00 8 785.00 769.00 748,50  
9 851.00 834.00 811.00 795.00 9 866.00 848.50 825.50  
10 937.00 918.00 892.50 875.50 10 955.50 936.50 911.00  
11 1031.00 1010.50 983.00 964.00 11 1054.00 1033.00 1005.00  
   
Nevada  
368.00  
406.00  
     
     
448.00  
494.50  
    
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
545.50  
602.00  
664.50  
733.50  
809,50  
893,00  
985,50  
   
### TPA  
  
2,915.50  
TPA 2.761.00 2,696.00 2,623.00 2,572.00  
' | Step# zone E zone F Zone G Nevada | Step# Zone€ Zone F zoneG Nevada  
1 394.50 386.50 376.00 368.00 1 394,50 386.50 376.00 368,00  
2 436.50 427.50 416.00 407,50 2 438.50 430.00 418.00 409.50  
3 483.00 473.50 460.50 451.00 3 488.00 478.00 465.00 455.00  
4 534,50 523,50 509.50 499,00 4 $42.50 531.50 517.00 §06.50  
5 591.50 579,50 964.00 552,00 603.00 5971.00 575.00 §63.00  
6 654,50 641.50 624,00 611.00 6 670.50 657,00 639.50 626.50  
? 724,00 709.50 690.50 676.50 7 745,50 730,50 711.00 696.50  
8 801.00 785.00 764.00 748.50 8 829.00 812.50 790.50 775.00  
9 886.50 869.00 845,50 828.50 9 922.00 903.50 879.00 863,50  
10 981.00 961.50 935.50 917.00 10 1025.00 1604.50 977,50 958.50  
11 1085.60 1064.00 1035.00 1015.00 im 1140.00 1117.00 1087.00 1066.00  
2,837.00  
   
        
      
    
            
   
2,782.50  
      
   
Pension Bands:  
Zone E ZoneF ZoneG Nevada  
122 121 120 119  
Job Titles Time in Title Job Titles Time In Title  
Analyst 24 Equipment Speciatist 24  
Building Speclaiist 24 Production Rep, 24  
Combination Technician (Nevada Only) 24 Splicing Technician 24  
Communications Technician (24 Systems Technician 24  
Company Telecom Technician 24 Systems Techniclan-Data  
Copy Service Artist 24 Communications 24  
Engineering Assistant 24 Testing Technician 24  
Equip. Installation Tech. 24  
141  
Wage Schedule IS 1  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
Effective Effective Effective Effective  
March 2001 October 2001 July 2002 June 2003  
Step# Step# Step# Step#  
392.00  
429.00  
469.00  
513.00  
5641.00  
614.00  
671.50  
734.50  
392.00  
433.00  
478,50  
528.50  
583.50  
644.50  
712,00  
786.50  
why —  
—  
### OOnN oO OR WN —  
Con Oo  
803.50 869.00  
IPA 2.097.00 IPA  
   
Pension Band: Job Title  
172 ae Maintenance Notification Associate 72  
—— + — —-—  
   
————  
-_  
— —  
— - —  
=  
ee  
142  
     
—— ae  
      
   
         
    
      
### IPA  
   
1,780.00  
Pension Bands:  
Zone E  
705  
      
1,746.00  
Zone F  
105  
1,696.50  
Zone G  
104  
Wage schedule PBHE 2]_  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
143  
   
    
    
### IPA  
     
1,869.00  
Job Titles  
' Administrative Clerk  
   
   
1,833.50  
Step# zone E Zone F Zone G Step# ZoneeE Zone F zone G  
1 450.00 441.00 428.50 1 450,00 441,00 428,50  
2 470.50 461.50 448.50 2 472.00 463.00 449,50  
3 492.50 483.00 469.00 3 495.50 486.00 472,00  
4 515.50 506.00 491 00 4 520.00 §10.00 495,50  
5 539.50 529.50 514,00 5 546.00 §35.00 520,00  
é 565.00 554.00 538,00 6 573.00 §61.50 544.00  
7 591.00 580.00 563.00 7 601.00 §89.50 573.00  
8 618.50 607.00 589.50 8 631.00 619.00 601.00  
9 647.50 635.00 617.00 9 662.00 649.50 63) ,00  
       
   
   
TPA 1,728.00 1,695.00 1,647.00  
Step# Zone E zone F zone G Step# Zonee zone F zone G  
1 450.00 441.00 428,50 450.00 441.00 428.50  
2 474,00 464,50 451.50 2 477.00 467.50 454.00  
3 499.50 489.50 475,50 3 §05.50 495.50 481.50  
4 §26.00 515.50 501.00 4 535.50 525.00 510.00  
§ §54,.00 543.00 628.00 5 567.50 556.50 541.00  
& 583.50 572.00 556.00 6 601.50 §90.00 573.00  
7 614.50 603.00 585,50 7 637.50 625.50 607.50  
& 647.50 635.00 617,00 8 675.50 663.00 644,00  
9 682.00 669.00 650,00 9 716.00 702.50 682.50  
1,781.50  
Time in Title  
       
   
Wage schedule PBHE 23  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
   
  
   
—  
   
     
     
     
   
    
     
   
### TPA  
   
     
1,947.00  
Pension Bands:  
zone E  
108  
1,909.00  
zone F  
407  
   
1,853.00  
Zone G  
   
106  
144  
2  
     
   
2,045.00  
Job Titles  
Warehouse Suppilas Affendant  
2,004.50  
1,946.00  
Time in Title  
Zone E zone F Zone G Step# ZoneeE Zone F Zone G  
449.00 460.00 447.00 ] 469,00 460.00 447,00  
489.00 479.50 465,50 2 490.00 480.50 467.00  
509.50 499.50 485,00 3 511.50 501.50 487.50  
531.00 §20.50 505,50 4 534.50 524.00 509.00  
§53.50 542.50 §27.00 5 558.00 547.00 §31.50  
§76.50 565.00 549.50 b 583.00 571,50 655.00  
601.00 589.00 §72.00 7 609.00 597.00 580,00  
626.50 614,00 596.00 8 636.00 623.50 605.50  
652.50 639.50 621.00 9 664.00 651.00 632.50  
680.00 466.50 647,50 10 693.50 680.00 660,50  
708.50 494,50 674.50 3 724.50 710.00 689.50  
    
TPA 1,891.00 1,853.00 1,799.50  
“| Step¥ —ZoneE ZoneF zoneG Step# ZoneE ZoneF Zone  
——y 4690046000 44700 | + 469,00 460.00 447.00  
2 491.50 482.00 468.00 2 _ 493.50 . 484.00 470.50  
3 614.50 504.50 490.50 3 _ 519.50 809.50 495.00  
4 539.00 528.50 4 — 847.00 536.50 522.00  
5 564.50 554.00 538.00 5 _ 57600 56450 548.50  
6 591.50 580.00 663.50 6+ 60600 594.50 577.50  
7 619.50 607.50 590.00 7 638.00 625.50  
8 649.00 636.50 618.00 8 — 67150 688.50 639.50  
9 680.00 666,50 647.00 9 — 70700 693.00 673.00  
10 712.00 698.50 678.00 10 744,50 729.50  
746.00 731.50 1) 783.50  
   
  
Wage Schedule PBHE 25  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN-STEPS-6 MONTHS- -- swe ne -  
Effective March 2001 Effective October 200)  
step#  
1  
  
Effective July 2002 Effective June 2003  
Step#  
—  
### IPA  
Zone E  
518.00  
§37,.50  
558,00  
579.00  
600,50  
Zone E  
518.00  
540.00  
563.50  
587.50  
613.00  
639.00  
666.50  
695.00  
725.00  
756.00  
788.05  
2,058.00 2,017.50  
Zone F  
008,00  
527,00  
546.50  
567.00  
588.50  
610.50  
633.50  
657.50  
682,00  
707,50  
- 734.00  
Zone F  
508.00  
530.00  
552.50  
576.00  
601.00  
626.50  
653.50  
681.50  
710.50  
741.00  
773.00  
zone G  
493.50  
512.00  
531.50  
551.50  
571.50  
593.00  
615.00  
638.00  
662.00  
687.00  
712.50  
zone G  
493.50  
514.50  
536.50  
  
§83.50  
608.50  
634,50  
662.00  
490.00  
719.50  
750,50  
1,959,00  
Siep#  
]  
  
### IPA  
Step#  
|  
  
Zone E  
918,00  
1,998.00  
Zone E  
518,00  
543,00  
569,00  
596,50  
625.00  
695.00  
686.50  
719.50  
794.00  
790.00  
828.00  
2,461.00  
Zone F  
208,00  
928,00  
549,00  
571.00  
$94.00  
617.50  
642.00  
667,50  
694,00  
722,00  
750,50  
1,989.00  
zone F  
908.00  
532.50  
558.00  
984,50  
612.50  
642,00  
673,00  
705.00  
739.00  
774.50  
811.50  
2,118.00  
Zone G  
493,50  
513,00  
533.50  
554.50  
576.50  
599,50  
623,50  
648.00  
674,00  
700,50  
728,50  
1,901.50  
zone G  
493,50  
517.00  
542.00  
568.00  
995.00  
623.50  
653,50  
685.00  
717.50  
752.00  
788.00  
2,056.50  
   
Pension Bands:  
Zone E zone F zone G  
iia 109 108  
Job Titles Time in Title’  
Video installer i8  
145  
Wage Schedule PBHE 27  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS  
Stepf  
1  
2  
3  
  
5  
6  
7  
§  
9  
10  
1]  
Step#  
}  
~_a—e — ——s =  
  
### IPA  
zone E  
596.00  
620.50  
646.00  
672.50  
699.50  
729.00  
758.50  
789.50  
821.50  
855.50  
890.50  
### ZONE E  
596.00  
~ 623,50 |  
652.50  
683.00  
714,50  
747.50  
782.50  
818.50  
856.50  
896.50  
938.00  
2,448.00  
Pension Bands:  
Zone E  
176  
zone F  
584.50  
608.50  
633.50  
659.50  
686.50  
714,50  
743.50  
774.00  
806.00  
839.00  
873.00  
Zone F  
584.50  
~ “611.50  
640.00  
669.50  
700.50  
733.00  
767,00  
802.50  
840.00  
879,00  
919,50  
2,400.00 2,330.50  
Zone F  
Ts  
Zone G  
  
594.00  
621.50  
650.00  
680.50  
712.00  
745,00  
779.50  
815.50  
853.50  
893.00  
Zone G  
Il  
Step#  
1  
  
TPA 2,329.50 2,263.00  
Effective July 2002 Effective June 2003  
_2one.F  
596.00 -  
Step#  
—_  
  
|  
Zone E  
596.00  
622.00  
648.50  
677.00  
706.00  
736,50  
768.50  
802.00  
836.50  
872,50  
910,50  
626.50  
659.00 -  
693.00  
728.50  
766.00  
805.50  
847.00  
891.00  
936.50  
985.00  
2,571.00  
Job Titles  
Customer Service Technician  
146  
zone F  
284.50  
610.00  
636.00  
663.50  
692.50  
722.50  
753.50  
786,00  
820,00  
855.50  
892.50  
Zone F  
646.00  
679.50  
714,50  
751.00  
790.00  
830.50  
873.50  
918,00  
965.50  
.  
zone G  
567.50  
592.00  
617.50  
644.50  
672.50  
701.50  
732.00  
763.50  
796.50  
831.00  
867.00  
zone G  
°  
614,50 .  
596.50  
627,50  
659.50  
693.50  
729.50  
767.00  
806.50  
848.00  
891.50  
937.50  
2,520.00 2,447.00  
   
Effective March 2001 Effectlve October 2001  
zone G  
Time in Title  
  
___ Wage Schedule PBHE 29  
### TIME INTERVAL BETWEEN STEPS-6 MONTHS ~ > oT eee  
   
Step#  
1  
    
      
     
### [OVP  
     
     
    
   
>  
2,781.00  
Pension Bands:  
zone E  
### IZ]  
2,726.00  
Zone F  
120  
2,648.00  
Zone G  
iy  
   
    
   
147  
### IPA  
   
2,920.50  
Job Titles  
Headend  
   
2,862.00  
   
Zone E Zone F Zone G Step#  ZoneeE zone F zone G  
704.00 690,00 670,00 1 704,00 690.00 670.00  
730.00 715.50 695.00 2 731.50 717.00 696.50  
757.00 742,00 720,50 3 760.50 745.06 723.50  
785,00 769.00 747.00 4 790.00 774,50 752.00  
813,50 797,50 774,50 § 821.00 805.00 781.50  
843.50 827.00 803,50 6 853.50 836,50 812.50  
874,50 858.00 833.50 7 887.00 869,50 844,50  
907.50 889.50 864.00 8 921.50 903,50 877.50  
940.50 922.00 896,00 9 958.00 939,00 912,00  
975.00 956.50 929.00 10 995.50 975.50 948.00  
1011.50 991,50 963.50 11 1034.50 1014.00 985.00  
TPA 2,700.00 2,446.50 2,571.00  
Step# zone E zone F zone G Stop# ZoneeE Zone F Zone G  
1 704,00 590.00 670,00 } 704.00 690,00 670,00  
2 734.00 719,00 698,50 2 737.50 722.50 702.00  
3 765.00 749,50 728.00 3 772.50 757.00 735.00  
4 797.00 781.50 759.00 4 809.00 793.00 770.00  
§ 831.00 814.50 791,00 § 847.50 830.50 806.50  
é 866.00 849.00 824.50 4 887.50 870.00 844.50  
7 902.50 885.00 859.50 ? 929.50 911,00 885,00  
8 941.00 922.50 896.00 § 974.00 954.00 927.00  
9 980.50 961,50 933,50 9 1020,00 999.50 970.50  
10 1022.00 1002.00 973,50 10 1068.50 1047.00 #£1017,00  
17 1065.50 1044.50 Wy 11#9.00 1094.50 #10468.00  
   
2,779.50  
    
Time in Title  
   
—  
Section C4  
### CLASSIFICATION OF EXCHANGES BY AREA  
Section C4.01 ZONE E  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Beverly Hills Hawthorne San Pedro  
Compton Inglewood Torrance  
Culver City Lomita  
El Segundo Los Angeles  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Campbeil Pacifica San Mateo  
East Bay Palo Ailfo South San Francisco  
Half Moon Bay Redwood City Sunnyvate  
los Altos San Carlos - Belmont  
Millbrae san Francisco  
Mountain View  
Section C4.02  
— mee ee eee  
$an Jose  
### ZONE F  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.  
— = - -  
Agoura Fallbrook * Palmdale-Pearblossom  
Alhambra Fullerton Pasadena  
Anahelm Garden Grove Placentia  
Arcadla Glendale Poway  
* irvine Ramona  
Avalon La Crescenta Rancho Bemardo  
Brea La Jolla Rancho Santa Fe  
Buena Paik La Mesa Reseda  
Burbank Lancaster Saddleback Valley  
Canoga Park Long Beach san Clemente  
Valley Montebello San Diego  
Chula Vista National City Santa Ana  
Coronado Newhall Santa Maria  
Det Mar Newport Beach Santa Monica  
Downey North Hollywood Simi  
Ei Cajon Northridge Temecula  
E] Monte Oceanside Thousand Oaks  
Encinitas Orange Van Nuys  
Escondido Paciflc Beach Vista  
Palmdale  
* Palmdale-FAA Center * Yermo  
*Specia! Rate Area Treated as Base Rate Area of Exchange.  
148  
Section C4  
Section C4,02  
Antioch  
  
Concord  
Corte Madera  
Crockeit  
Danville #  
Dublin  
East Contra Costa  
Fremont-Newark  
Hayward  
Ignacio  
Lafayetie  
### ZONE F  
m6  
### CLASSIFICATION OF EXCHANGES BY AREA (Continued)  
-- - _ .  
### NORTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Livermore  
Martinez  
Mill Volley  
Moraga  
Orinda  
Pittsburg  
Pleasanton  
Point Reyes  
#fincludes the San Ramon Complex.  
$ection €4.03  
Baker  
Banning  
Barstow  
Blythe  
Borrego  
Brawley  
Calexico  
Colton  
Corona  
E! Centro  
Fillmore  
### ZONE G  
Richmond-El Sobrante  
Rodeo  
san Martin  
san Rafael  
Sausalito  
stinson Beach-Bolinas  
Walnut Creek  
### SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA  
Fontana  
Highland  
Holtville  
tndlo  
Julian  
Moorpark  
Ojai  
Oxnard  
Palm Springs  
Pine Valley  
Pomona  
149  
Rialto  
Riverside  
San Bernardina  
Santa Barbara  
san Ysidro  
Satilcoy  
Twentynine Paims  
Ventura  
Victorville  
Section C4  
Section C4.03  
Anderson  
Angels Comp  
Aptos  
Arcata  
Arroyo Grande  
Arvin  
Atascadero  
Atwater  
Aubum  
Bakersfield  
* Beale Air Force  
Callstoga  
Castroville  
### CLASSIFICATION OF EXCHANGES BY AREA (Continued)  
### ZONE G  
Base  
* Camino-Pollock Pines  
Carmel  
* Central Valley  
Chico  
Chowchilla |  
Cloverdale  
Clovis  
Coatinga  
Coming  
Cottonwood  
Dovis  
Delano  
Dinuba  
Dixon  
Downleville  
Dunnigan  
Dunsmuir  
Edwards  
E(k  
Eureka  
  
Falr Oaks  
Felton  
Firebaugh  
Folsom  
Forestville  
*  
### NORTRERN CALIFORNIA  
Fort Bragg  
Fortuna  
Fresno  
Galt  
Grass Valley  
Sildiey  
Guerneville  
Hanford  
Healdsburg  
Hollister  
Jackson  
King City  
Lakeport  
Lemoore  
Lockeford  
Lodi  
  
_Los Banos _  
Lower Lake  
Madera  
Marysville  
Merced  
Middletown  
Modesto  
Mojave  
Mojave Swiiching Center  
Monterey  
Bay  
Mt. Shasta  
Napa  
Newman  
Nimbus (Aero-Jet)  
North Tahoe  
Oakdale  
Onand  
Oroville  
Paradise  
Paso Robles  
Petaluma  
Placerville  
Polnt Arena  
Porterville  
Portola  
Quincy  
Red Bluff  
Redding  
Rio Linda  
Sacramento  
Salinas  
San Luis Obispo  
St. Helena  
Santa Cruz  
Santa Rosa  
Sebastopol  
selma  
_ Sonoma  
- —  
South Tahoe  
Stockton  
susanville  
Taft  
Tehachapl  
Tracy  
Truckee  
Tulare  
Turlock  
Ukiah  
Vacaville  
Vallejo  
Visalia  
Wasco  
Watsonville  
Weed  
Willits  
Willows  
Woodiand  
Yosemite  
Yreka  
* Special Rate Area treated as Base Rate Area of Exchange  
150  
7 Austin  
Section C4.04 NEVADA  
Empire/Genach Patiump  
Battle Mountain Fernley Reno  
Beatty Hawthorne Schurz  
Carson City Indian Springs Tonopah  
Crystal Bay Las Vegas Virginia City  
EIKO Lovelock Winnemucca  
Ely Orevada  
151  
### SectlonCS5 | TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA)  
   
For employees covered under this agreement the Team Performance Award (TPA) will  
apply for the years 2007, 2002, 2003 and 2004. |  
### Section €5.01 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) - DESCRIPTION  
A.  
Purpose  
The TPA is to encourage and reward team performance of employees by  
providing Incentive compensation based on attainment of Corporate and Business  
Plan objectives. Participants will earn an award based on the performance of  
Pacific Bell. The Company performance measures will be the same as the Company  
performance measures used for the management Team Award.  
Awards  
Awards under the Plan are based on performance over an Award Year {calendar  
year). A standard award amount is determined for each Award Year, a percentage  
of which may be earned by eligible employees depending on team performance  
dung the Award Year. Standard Award amounts are included on the wage  
schedutes of this appendix.  
—-Award-Level -—-  
The TPA is tled to Company success. The maximum award earned for financial  
and service performance is 100% of the standard award. Pay-outs greater than  
100% are at the discretion of the Company. Any discretionary pay-out  
percentage over 100% will be the same as the Company pay-out percentage  
used for the management Team Award of Paciffe Bell. The minimum threshold  
is a 50% pay-out. Performance which results in ag calculation below 50% results  
in NO pay-out.  
2, Award Computation  
Eligible employees will receive awards based on Company performance  
including financlat and services measures. Section ©5,02 describes ithe  
performance measurement process and the computation of the TPA.  
152  
   
3. Award Payment ~  
### Section C5.01 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) - DESCRIPTION (Continued)  
_— — co om, - ae — - ee  
— ~~ - =. «  
Payment of awards will be made as soon as after the Award Year  
and will normally occut fhe payday of the last full pay period in Febuary.  
Eligibility  
Team members who have at least 90 days active service during the Award Year are  
eligible for awards. Active service may not be rounded up to 90 days to achieve  
eligibility. Neither may disabillty or leave of absence time be included to meet the  
90 days minimum active service requirement,  
Prorating Awards  
Those employees in the Plan for 90 days or more but less than twelve months receive  
prorated amounts. Amounts will be prorated on a daily basis.  
Part-Time Emptoyees, Temporary Employees and Term Employees  
Part-Time employees are eligible for a prorated award based on the relationship of  
the individual part-time employee's average workweek for the calendar year to a  
forty (40) hour workweek.  
Temporary and Term employees are eligible for a prorated award If all other  
eligibility requirements are met,  
Transfers, Promotions, Retirements, Resignations and Dismissals  
Participating employees who transfer, resign, retire, of are dismissed during an  
Award Year will be treated according to the following provisions:  
1. Transfers  
An employee transferring between positions is sligibte for a prorated award  
according to the time of active service in that position, A total of 90 days  
active service In all eligible pasitions must be met, howevel.  
2s Promotions  
Employees moving between award eligible levels during an Award Year shall  
have their award prorated according to the time of active service at each  
level.  
3. Temporary Promotions/Reclassificatlons  
Temporary promotees/reciassifications are eligible for a prorated award  
according to the time of active service in that title.  
153  
   
   
### Section C5.01 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) - DESCRIPTION (Continued)  
G.  
4, Retirements  
Retlrees with 90 days or more of active service during the Award Year are  
eligible to receive prorated awards,  
5, Resignations  
An employee who resigns or is lald off during an Award Year Is eligible for o  
prorated award if all other eligibility requirements have been met.  
é. Dismissais  
An employse who is dismissed the Award Year is not eligible for the  
award,  
Disability Absence  
Employees having cumulative Short-Term disabillty absence({s) for ninety (90) days oar  
less in a year wilt receive a full award. When the perlod is in excess of  
ninety (90) days in a year, the award will be prorated to the nearest day of active  
service for the Award Year.  
-  
of-Absences—  
Employees on approved military leave(s) of absence who hove one (1) year or more  
service will be given full wage credit up to three (3) months toward the award.  
Employees on other approved teave(s) of absence will have cumulative leave time  
in excess of thirty (30) days excluded from award computation.  
Time Off For Union Activities  
Time off for union activities (both UP and VA time) wil! be counted as time worked  
when computing awards.  
Excused time In any month in an Award Year which Is counted as time worked will  
be added to actual time worked before prorating.  
154  
### Section €5.01 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) - DESCRIPTION (Continued)  
-  
Benefits Treatment | - a oe  
The TPA Is for many benefit programs that are pay retated. The effect of  
this practice on specific benefits is shown below.  
l.  
Death Benefits  
Awards pald within the twelve (12) month period prior to the date of death are  
Included in the basic pay. Awards received In the twelve months prior to the  
date of retirement are Included in the death benefit computation for a retired  
employes. Awards after retirement do not affect the benefit.  
Group Insurance  
Awards recelved In the past twelve (12) months are included in the  
computation of basic pay for all insurance coverage. Deductions from  
monthly pay will be made for employees purchasing Supplementary coverage  
on on annualized basis.  
Savings Plan  
TPA will bs Included in Savings Plan deductions.  
short-Term Disability  
Payment is equal to the current base wage rate. The TPA is not considered.  
Long-Term Disability  
Maximum payment is 50% of the base wage rate in effect at the beginning of  
the disability. The TPA is not considered,  
Pensions  
fhe TPA is included when penslon bands are assigned.  
Taxes, Personal Allotments  
Awards are subject to state and local taxes, Federal Income Tax, Social Securlty Tax,  
Medicare Tax and California State Disability deductions at the time of payment.  
Union dues will be deducted at the same rate as they are for wages.  
Employees with 401{k) elections will not have State or Federal Income Taxes  
deducted from that portion,  
Personal allotments such as Savings Bonds and United Giving contributions will not  
be made.  
155  
### section TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) - DESCRIPTION (Continued)  
L. Overtime  
Oveitime payments will be based on an hourly rate which includes both base and  
TPA payments.  
An employee's hourly wage TPA rate for overtime payments will be calculated as  
follows:  
The hourly rate will be equal to actual award divided by 2080 hours.  
Example of TPA Overtime Payment Using TPA hourly rate:  
An employee's TPA Payment equats $1,768. The employee worked 100 hours  
of overtime in the award year at a time and one-half rate (100 x 1.5 = 150  
hours).  
TPA Overtime TPA  
Hourly Hours Overtime  
Rate Worked Payment  
$1,768 = .85 x 150 = $127.50  
2080 °  
The TPA Overtime Payment (TPAOT) will be included in the pay check of the  
last full pay period of February TPA Pay-out.  
### Section €5.02 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) - COMPUTATIONS  
the TPA will provide annual cash payments, based on an employee's wage schedule,  
depending on whether fhe Company meets, exceeds or misses its financial and service  
goals. The TPA will be based on Pacific Bell performance. The Campany performance  
measures will be the same as the Company performance measures used for the Pacific  
Bell Management Team Award.  
156  
### Sectlon C5.02 TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA) - COMPUTATIONS (continued)  
——— a ee  
The TPA payments will be determined as follows: °° te ee  
i A standard award, based on the top step of an employee's wage schedule, will be  
given annually if the Company meets Its financlal and service goals. The standard  
award will be 5.0% of annual top step pay for each of the years 2007 — 2004.  
2, The standard awards described In number 1 above will be adjusted based on  
percent achievement of Company performance measures.  
The TPA pay-out wili be based on the percent achlevement of Company  
performance measures. Each year, Paciflc Bell will set:  
e financial and customer service targets  
e afinanclal/service weighting  
3. The percent achievement of fhe financial and targets will  
determine the Team Pesformance Award, The Company pay-out percentages for  
the Team Performance Award will be the same as the Company pay-out  
percentages used for the management Team Award of Pacific Bel.  
4. Anexample of a poy-out computation is shown below:  
° Company performance targets far financial and service performance were set  
by the Company. The Company also determined that the TPA pay-out would  
be based 75% on financial performance and 25% on service performance.  
° 98% of the financial target was attained, which resulted In 98%. The weighting  
of the financial portion ts 75%. 98% multiplied by 75% equals a 73.5% resulf.  
* 100% of the service target was attained, which resulted in 100%. The weighting  
of the service portion is 25%. 100% multiplled by 25% equals a 25% result.  
« The financlal result of 73.5% pilus the service result of 25% equals a TPA pay-out  
of 98.5%.  
Financial Service TPA  
Payout  
la |Performance] 98% _  
b |Weighting  
a xb= 73.5%  
results  
    
   
     
    
### O  
= 98.5%  
     
157  
### section Cé PENSION TABLE REVISIONS  
The following monthly pension benefit amounts will be effective for those persons retiring  
on or after January }, 2002, January 3, 2003 and January 1, 2004:  
Pension  
Band For Retirements For Retirements For Retirements  
on or after on or after on or after  
Number January 1, 2002 January 1, 2003 January 1, 2004  
104 $32.24 $33.53 $35.54  
105 $33.44 $34.78 $36.87  
106 $34.68 $36.07 $38.23  
107 $35.97 $37.35 $39.59  
108 $37.09 $38.57 $40.88  
109 $38.31 $39.84 $42.23  
110 $39.51 $417.09 $43.56  
111 $40.73 $42.36 $44.90  
112 $41.90 $43.58 $46.79  
113 $43.14 $44.87 $47.56  
114 $44,32 $46.09 $48.86  
115 $45.55 $47.37 | —__ _ $50.24 _.. _--—-  
- 116-— — -- $46.76-- ~— ~~ $48.63 — $51.55  
117 $47.94 $49.86 $52.85  
118 $49.17 $51.14 $54.27  
119 $50.38 $52.40 $55.54  
120 $51.57 $53.63 $56.85  
121 $52.77 $54.88 $58.17  
122 $53.99 $56.15 $59.52  
Sample Pension Computation  
Note: Refer to your Summary Plan Description for a full description of how a pension ts  
computed, Inctuding the supplemental pension, early retirement discount,  
survivor annuity option, etc.  
The basic monthly pension ls computed as your service credit multiplied by the monthiy  
benefit amount (above) for your pansion band.  
You will find the pension band for your job and wage schedule in the Wage Schedule  
Tables of the Contract.  
For example, if an employee with a wage schedule assigned pension band retired in  
January, 2003. with thirty (30) years of service. the pension would be 30 x $46.09 = $1,382.70  
per month.  
158  
### Section C7 EVENING, NIGHT AND EARLY MORNING DIFFERENTIALS  
### A. APPLICABLE FOR WAGE SCHEDULES WS$3 AND WSS”  
1. Evening and Night Differentials  
### LENGTH  
### TOURS ENDING OF TOUR % DAILY DIFFER.  
6:30 P.M. 7-1/2 HRS.  
6:31 P.M. TO 7:00PM 7-1/2 HRS.  
7:01 P.M. TO 7:59PM 7-1/2 HRS.  
8:00 P.M. TO &:59PM HRS,  
9:00 P.M, TO 10:00 P.M. HRS.  
10:01 P.M. TO 14:00 P.M. HRS.  
17:01 P.M. TO 12 MID. | HRS.  
12:01 A.M. TO 1:00 A.M. HRS.  
1:07 A.M, TO 2:00 A.M. HRS.  
2:01 A.M. TO 3:00 A.M. HRS.  
### ALL-NIGHT TOURS HRS.  
   
### TO BE ADMINISTERED AS PROVIDED IN APPENDIX A, SECTION A3.  
2. Early Morning Differential  
### | LENGTH  
### TOURS BEGINNING OF TOUR % DAILY DIFFER.  
     
159  
—  
Section C&a  
### WAGE ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE  
Section C8  
### OF GENERAL  
A. The followlng definitions will apply to this practice:  
\,  
4,  
— —  
A Change of Assignment is a change from one classification to a different  
title classification.  
To determine whether an employee's change of assignment is to a lower,  
equal or higher-rated schedule, compare the top rate of employee's former  
schedule with the top rate of the schedule to which the employee is being  
assigned. When comparing top rates, Include any applicable job (not shift)  
except a rellef differentiat,  
Steps - aie ao specified number of slx month intervals on a Steps are  
associated with specific wage rates. We curently have 9 ond 11 step  
schedules,  
Elapsed Time - Is the time an emptoyee has accumulated or should be  
credited with on a step.  
Total Schedule Time or Wage Experlence Credit is determined by combining  
the number of months conesponding tf to the employee's current step, and_the  
“elapsed time on that step.  
B. The following rules should apply to all moves between schedules, whether to lower,  
equal or higher rated schedules:  
1.  
When the change of assignment occurs on the same date on which a  
scheduled increase is due, both increases shall be effective on that dote but  
the scheduled Increasé shall be considered as preceding any applicable  
promotional Increase.  
When the change of assignment Is to a schedule In a different wage area, the  
shall first be placed on the former schedule In the new wage area  
with the same fotal schedule time. Movement to the new schedule will then  
be according to the rules outlined in Sectlons C8.02, €8.03, C8.04, €8.05, or  
C8.06 which follow.  
In no case shall the new wage rate exceed the top rate of the schedule to  
which the empioyee |s assigned.  
In NO Case shall any employee lose Total Time or Wage Experience  
Credit with exception of the IImitation STEP FROM MAXIMUM.  
160  
—_—, ee  
### Section C8.02 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT TO A HIGHER-RATED SCHEDULE  
Compare the rate associated with the employee's step on the lower-rated schedule,  
including any applicable job differential (except a tellef differential), with the rate  
associated on the new schedule as determined by allowing the employee full Wage  
Experience Credit in progression of at maximum on the old wage schedule. The  
employee shall then be placed on the new wage schedule according to the following  
rules:  
A. If the wage rate on the new schedule is equal to or lower than the rate on the  
lower-rated schedule, the employee shall be placed on the step of the new  
schedule having the rate nearest to but not less than the employee's existing rate,  
B, If the rate on the new wage schedule is higher than the rate on the lower- rated  
schedule, the employee shall be placed on the new schedule allowing full Wage  
Experience Credit in progression, or at maximum from the old schedule.  
Cc. The employee shall be placed on the step on the new wags schedule, as  
determined by the comparisons made in paragraphs A. and B. preceding, but not  
to exceed the step down from maximum of the new schedule as listed following  
paragraph D.  
D. To determine the time interval to the next progression increase on ihe schedule to  
which assigned, credit shall be allowed for the employee's slapsed time on the step  
of the lower-rated schedule, both in progression or at maximum WITH THE EXCEPTION  
of any movement Involving a limitation on the step from maximum. [n such cases,  
no credit shall be allowed towards the next progression Increase.  
### UPGRADE TO:  
Eee ett eee  
### (LIMITATION)  
### STEP FROM MAXIMUM - 12 MONTHS  
Re RR ee ee Te Re ee  
Building Specialist Equipment Specialist  
Combination Technician Headend  
Communications Technician Production Representative  
Company Telecommunications Splicing Technician  
Techniclan systems Technician  
Copy Service Artist Systems Technician - Data Comm.  
Customer Service Technician Testing Technician  
Equipment Instaltation Techniclan  
161  
ra mas  
   
Sectlon C8.02  
aa= soa  
-.--  
### CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT TO A HIGHER-RATED SCHEDULE (Continued)  
### (LIMITATION)  
### STEP FROM MAXIMUM - 6 MONTHS  
PTT eT eee et te ee er PP Pe ee Te eee ee Pee  
Accounting Associote  
Accounting Specialist  
Analyst  
Assignment Administrator  
Building Mechanic  
Collection Representative  
Collection - Bilingual  
Collector  
Computer Operator  
Customer Representative  
Representative - Bilingual  
Customer Service Technician  
Data Administrator  
Data Specialist  
Driver  
Enginsering Administrator  
   
Engineering Cost Associate  
Factlities Administrator  
Facilities Technician  
### SRR OA ETERS PSR EE ee  
FACS Administrator  
Fleid Job Administrator  
Garage Mechanic  
Malntenance Administrator  
Maintenance Notification Associate  
Assistant  
Network Maintenance  
Operations Administrator  
Operations Specialist  
Order Writer  
Outside Plant Techniclan  
Provisioning Specialist  
ROMA Administrator  
Sales and Service Representative - Bilingual  
Service Representative  
Seivices Technician -  
- Supervisor's oo  
supply Service Attendant  
Supply S$peclallst-Nevada  
### (LIMITATION)  
### STEP FROM MAXIMUM - 0 MONTHS :  
we eee FRESE EEE Re eee ee  
Administrative Clerk  
Cashier  
Central Office Assoclate  
Customer Associate  
Customer Service  
Data Entry Associate  
Garage Attendant  
HR Operations Associate  
Information Processor  
Messenger (Motorized)  
ee eee te eee ee  
Office Associate  
Operator  
Reports Assoclate  
service Assistant  
Service Assistant - Bilingual  
Services Specialist  
staff Assoclate  
Translations Operator  
Video  
Warehouse Supplies  
162  
### -Section.-C8.03 EXCEPTIONS-TO THE LIMITATIONS IN-SECTION C8.02 -- —_ - oe  
A, Moves fiom one title to another title having the same twelve (12) months or six (6)  
months limitation shall be at full wage experience credit,  
B. Moves between Wage Schedule W511] and WS12 shall be at full wage experience  
credit.  
C. Moves between the following titles shall be at full wage experience credit:  
Bullding Mechanic  
Building Specialist  
Collector  
Copy Service Artist  
Driver  
Equipment Speciatist  
Faciiltiés Technician  
Garage Attendant  
D, Moves to ao higher-rated schedule resulting In a decrease in the employee's wage  
fate under the procedures outlined in Section C8.02 above shall be made as follows:  
the employees shail instead be placed on the step of the new schedule having the  
rate nearest to, but not less than. the existing rate (step from maximum limitations  
will not apply).  
E. Changes of assignment to a previously held title shail be at full wage experience  
credit.  
### Section C8.04 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT BETWEEN SCHEDULES WITH THE SAME TOP RATE  
A. Changes of Assignment Between Schedules of the Same Length:  
Compare the rate with the employee's step on the old wage schedule  
with the same step on the new wage schedule.  
1. if the rate on the new schedule is the same or higher than the rate on the old  
schedule. the employee shall be placed on the step of the new schedule by  
allowing full Wage Experlence Credit. To determine the time intervai to the  
next pragression increase, credit shall be allowed for the employee's elapsed  
time on the step of the old schedule.  
2. if the rate on the new schedule is lower than the rate on the old schedule, the  
employee shall be placed on the step of the new schedule having the rate  
nearest to but not less than the employee's existing rate. To determine the  
time interval to the next progression increase, no credit shall be allowed for  
the employee's elapsed time on the step of the ald schedule.  
163  
### section C8.04 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT BETWEEN SCHEDULES WITH THE SAME TOP RATE  
(Continued)  
B. Changes of Assignment From a Shorter to a Longer Wage Schedule:  
The employee shall be placed on the step of the new schedule having the rate  
nearest to, but not less than the employee's existing rate. To determine the time  
interval to the next progression increase. no credit shall be allowed for the  
employee's elapsed time on the step of the old schedule.  
C. Changes of Assignment From a Longer to a Shorter Wage Schedule:  
The employee shall be placed on the step of the new schedule that the employee  
was ddministered on the former schedule. To determine the time interval to the  
next progression increase, credit shall be allowed for the employee's elapsed time  
on the step of old schedule.  
### section C8.05 CHANGES OF ASSIGNMENT TO A LOWER-RATED SCHEDULE  
On all changes of assignment to a lower-rated schedule, the employee shall be placed  
on the same step on the lower-rated schedule that the employee was administered on  
the former schedule. To determine the time Interval to the next progression Increase,  
credit shall be allowed for the employee's. elapsed. time. .on_the step—of_the. former—-- -  
schedule.  
Section €8.06 RETREATS  
Anytime an employee moves to another job and subsequently retreats to the former job  
within six (6) months; for wage purposes the employee will be treated as though he or she  
never left the job.  
164  
ate - = ‘ - . - * ——_ = = .  
a a . — - sens  
er oe  
### AGREEMENT OF RECOGNITION  
The Union certifies that a majority of non-supervisory employees in the units  
described below have designated the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent and have  
empowered the authorized representatives of the Union to bargain collectively and to  
enter into and execute agreements with the Companles with respect to rates of pay,  
wages, hours of employment and other conaltions of employment,  
All non-supervisory employees In the organizations and having the job titles specified in  
Appendix A, Sections Al through Al.01, A2 through A2.01, A3_ through A3.01, A4 through  
A4.01, and Appendix B. are represented by the Communications Workers of America  
(CWA) with the following exceptions:  
6 Employees represented by other Unions,  
° Non-represented employees whose non-represented status exists at the  
effective date of this Contract.  
The Companies will periodically provide the Union with an updated addenda of  
representation by appendix by operating unit and payroll ARC.  
« As new reports are Issued, the Companies will provide the Union with a  
copy of the summary of changes since the previous report.  
165  
### NOTES  
  
‘  
.  
~  
~  
~  
~  
we  
<<  
166  
The Memoranda of Agreement on the following pages,  
which are Included for easy reference, _  
are effectiv through the term of  
the 2001 Contract  
between  
Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell,  
SBC Telecom, Inc. in Las Vegas, Nevada,  
SBC Telecom, Inc. - Network Operations,  
SBC Advanced Solutlons, Inc.,  
SBC Services, Inc.,  
Pacific Bell Information Services-Maintenance Notification Group,  
Pacific Bell Home Entertainment  
And  
the Communications Workers of America  
### DOCUMBNTATION RETENTION  
Early  
Eliminate Force Freezes, Force &  
Career Development Programs and Training/Retraining  
### CHOMIZONMS) ERS  
### PROF 0G  
Monitoring and Productivity Measurements  
(Operator pied AK sapere  
Pay Treatment for Medically  
Principles For Sales INCeNntive  
Provide for Voluntary Walving of the Sunday Plus Four Request...  
### REIOCOTION EXPENSE  
### SUB COI  
Supervisory Monitoring - Definition Per CPUC  
Supervisory Monitoring — ServiCe  
167  
169  
17]  
179  
18)  
183  
185  
187  
189  
191  
193  
197  
199  
201  
em  
ye  
   
168  
wre -—  
  
~ saber  
200 Sarno Racor, “X56!  
San Remon, Cabtoraca HE  
44651 822-3600  
Ms. Carole M. Sheahan  
Area Director  
District 9  
Communications Workers of America  
411 Airport Boulevard  
Burlingame, CA 94010  
Dear Carole and Retd:  
—— —=— « ~ . —s*- = = —  
—— = > -  
A Telasis Company  
Mr. Reid B. Pearce  
Area Director  
District 9  
Communications Workers of America  
6033 West Century Blvd., Ste. 600  
Los Angeles, CA 90045  
This Memorandum of Agreement will confirm our understanding of  
October 22, 1989, regarding retention of personnel folder  
.dJocumentation.  
The Companies’ policy on the retention of personnel folder documentation  
regarding job performance in the areas of attendance, quality, and/or.  
quantity of work on employees who have been subject to disciplinary  
action is:  
"Once disciplinary actton has been taken and the problem corrected,  
all records wit] be destroyed.“  
This poticy wilt] be supplemented with this clarification:  
“Under normal conditions, the records will) be destroyed within one  
year of the action taken.”  
169  
This Memorandum of Agreement will only become effective if the  
collective bargaining agreement between the parties embodied in the  
Memorandum of Agreement dated October 22, 1989, is ratified by the Union  
membership on or before December 1, 1989. If that Memorandum of  
Agreement is so ratified, this Memorandum of Agreement will become  
effective and will be subject to termination in accordance with Article  
9 of the collective bargaining agreement effective August 6, 1989.  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA PACIFIC BELL/NEVADA BELL~  
        
     
ee  
-— 2-6 ————  
rea Director, District 9  
       
Execut Director -  
Labor Relations  
Date: Ce - ab 2 . Date: 22-$?  
Agreed:  
Area Director, District 9  
Date: —~FF  
170  
### “-- - “~MEMORANDUM. OF. AGREEMENT  
### EARLY RETIREMENT BENEFIT  
The pension pian will be modified effective October 1, 1995 to  
provide that from time to time during the life of the contract,  
the Companies may designate work groups in which they will offer  
an Early Retirement Benefit (ERB) providing enhanced pension  
benefits. For purposes of this memorandum of agreement “work  
group” shall mean a group identified by Vice President,  
headquarters and job title. ERB is intended to be offered to  
alleviate or avoid surplus conditions. The Companies will  
determine, in their discretion, whether and when to offer ERB,  
but surplus will not be declared in a work group where ERB has  
not been offered to all work groups with the same title and Vice  
President entity within the consolidated headquarters defined in  
Article 2. There will be a thirty (30) calendar day election  
Period. The Companies may place a limit on the number of  
employees who will be eligible for the ERB benefit separately in  
each work group. The Companies will send to the Union a listing  
of the work groups to be offered ERB before the start of the  
thirty (30) calendar day election pericd. Employees who elect to  
accept the offer and who are eligible under the participation  
limit for their group have to terminate employment at the time  
that is set for their retirement. They will not be allowed to  
revoke their election to retire, and their termination at the  
time set for their retirement will not be subject to arbitration.  
171  
4+ 4 Pension Enhancement  
ERB is a 4+4 pension enhancement. Employees who meet all  
eligibility requirements will have four (4) years added to their  
age and four (4) years added to their service for purposes of  
computing their enhanced pension as of their retirement date.  
The four (4) years of service and four (4) years of age that are  
added in computing the amount of the enhanced pension under ERB  
only apply as of the eligibility date and the retirement date and  
only apply for purposes of:  
a.  
“Bridging of-past servi¢e for determining eligibility  
for a service pension and the pension amount; and  
Determining eligibility for a service pension under  
### ERB ;  
Computing the amount of the enhanced pension under ERB;  
Determining the application of an age related discount;  
—_— —— =  
--_  
—_ ——  
-————  
=  
~-:  
Meeting the requirement that an employee have at least  
eighteen (18) months in a pension band in order to  
apply all past service to the value of the band.  
172  
-Eliqgibility  
- _——.-  
= _— =  
  
An employee ina deniguated work group is eligible to receive the  
ERB enhanced pension if:  
1. The employee is a current employee who has not waived  
rights to active benefits.  
2. The employee’s actual age and service (without any  
enhancements) as of the final day of the thirty (30)  
calendar day election period meet the normal service  
pension requirement or would meet the requirement with  
the addition of four (4) years to age and four (4)  
years to service, that is:  
Normal Service Pension Requirements Eligibility Requirements  
wi + 4  
a. any age with 30 years of service any age with 26 years of service  
b. age SOQ with 25 years of service age 46 with 21 years of service  
c. age 55 with 20 years of service age 51 with 16 years of service  
d. age 65 with 10 years of service age 61 with 6 years of service  
If prior service would be bridged with the addition of  
four (4) years of service, the bridged total shall be  
used for determining if the employee would meet normal  
pension requirements as of the end election period, and  
for computing the pension amount as of the retirement  
date, but not for any other purpose. For instance, it  
will not be used for determining service for the  
metering process described below.  
3. The employee elects to retire with the ERB pension  
enhancement and signs and delivers an election form to  
the appropriate Company during the thirty (30) calendar  
day election pericd.  
4. The employee satisfies the requirements of the  
limitation on the number of eligible employees, if  
applicable.  
173  
  
5S. The employee retires in the month that is determined  
through the metering process described below or on the  
fifteenth (15th) calendar day following the end of the  
election period, if the metering process ig not used.  
Employees who terminate employment before the  
applicable times will not receive the enhanced pension.  
Tempor Su ment to Ade 62  
If an employee retires with a service pension under ERB and the  
employee has not reached his or her sixty-second birthday at  
retirement, the employee’s pension, after the 4+4 enhancement,  
will be increased by the addition of a 30% supplement. This  
temporary supplement will be paid each month, with the last  
payment made for the month in which the retiree’s sixty-second  
birthday occurs. |  
There will be a separate election fora lump sum cashout... a  
applicable to this temporary-supplement: If the employee elects a  
cashout of the single life annuity the temporary supplement will  
also be cashed out. If the employee elects monthly payments of  
the service pension annuity, the employee may separately elect a  
eashout of the temporary supplement only.  
Participation Limits  
1. Within any work group the Company may place a limit on  
the number of employees who will be eligible for the  
ERB benefit.  
2. Any such limit on a work group will be set before the  
thirty-day election period begins, and the Company will  
‘inform the Union of work groups with participation  
limits.  
3. If the number of employees submitting election forms  
exceeds the limit for the work group, eligibility will  
' be determined by seniority, i.e., only the senior  
employees up to the limit will be eligible. This  
eligibility determination is made as of the end of the  
election period, and will not be changed.  
174  
In each second level work unit, or the next level higher work  
unit if there is no second level work unit, the Companies may use  
the following process to determine when employees within a work  
unit must retire in order to receive the ERB pension enhancement.  
»  
Before the thirty (30) calendar day election period  
begins, the Companies will designate the work units  
using this metering and will inform the Union.  
The metering process will result in selection of a  
specific retirement month, within one (1) year from the  
end of the thirty (30) calendar day election period,  
for each prospectively eligible employee in the work  
unit who elected ERB. Only calendar months will be  
designated as retirement months. The month in which the  
election period ends may be a desiqnated retirement  
month. |  
There are two steps to the metering precess:  
a. Within ten (10) calendar days following the end of  
the election period, for each work unit using the  
metering process, the Companies will distribute a  
metering list designating the specific calendar  
month or months in which employees in that work  
unit may retire with ERB, and the number of such  
employees that may retire in each such designated  
month.  
b. If more than one month is designated, each  
prospectively eligible employee will identify his  
or her preference order for all available months  
on the metering list in which he or she is allowed  
to retire. Employees shall have five (5) calendar  
days from receipt of the metering list in which to  
identify their retirement month preference order.  
The preference lists will then be matched, by  
seniority, with the metering list, so that each  
employee receives his or her most preferred  
retirement month remaining on the metering list,  
after the preferences of the more senior employees  
(as expressed on their preference lists) have been  
given effect. If two employees have identical  
175  
seniority, the one whose last four social security  
number digits comprise the larger number will be  
treated as if he or she were more senior. An  
employee who does not identify his or her  
preferences within the above timeframe, or who  
submits an incomplete preference list and whose  
preferences have all been taken, will be scheduled  
to retire in the earliest remaining available  
month on the ‘metering list.  
Once the retirement schedule is set, it will not be  
changed.  
If an employee terminates employment before the month  
he or she elected through this metering process, the  
employee will not receive the ERB pension enhancement.  
Employees who do not select a particular date during  
the month they elected through the metering process for  
retirement will _be of_the.last. day-of --—--  
—_—_——  
that month.  
If a work unit does not use the metering process, all  
the employees in that work unit who elect ERB and meet  
the other ERB eligibility requirements must retire on  
the fifteenth (15th) calendar day following the end of  
the election period in order to receive the enhanced  
pension.  
Employees receiving short term disability benefits and  
employees on a leave of absence as of the thirtieth  
(30th) day of the thirty-day election period will not  
be included in the metering process, and must retire on  
the fifteenth (15th) day following the end of the  
thirty-day election period, or earlier if their short  
term disability benefits end earlier.  
Other Provisions Applicable to ERB  
1.  
The pension plan will be amended for each ERB offer.  
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Collective  
Bargaining Agreement, the Companies shall have the  
right to amend the pension plan as appropriate to  
implement ERB.  
176  
—— aoe —  
“The ERB service enhancement_is not a permanent change  
to the employee’s term of employment or net credited” ~~~  
service and will not be used for any purpose other than  
determination of the ERB benefit, e.g., it will not be  
used to determine vacation or seniority, including  
seniority regarding the ERB metering process.  
The enhanced pension benefit is available only to those  
employees who meet ail eligibility requirements and are  
designated eligible by an amendment to the pension  
plan, and only during those periods and under those  
conditions designated. The pension enhancement will  
not be applied to any employee who terminates  
employment before the time set for the employee’s  
retirement.  
If an employee who was previously granted an enhanced  
pension under Early Retirement Choice (ERC) or Early  
Retirement Incentive (ERI) ia in a work group where the  
ERB benefit is offered, the employee’s eligibility for  
the ERB benefit and the amount of benefit are  
determined without regard to any enhancements provided  
under ERC or ERI.  
For employees with part-time service during their term  
of employment, the four (4) years of enhanced service  
will be prorated in computing the amount of the pension  
benefit. No proration will apply for the purpose of  
determining eligibility for a service pension under  
### ERB.  
Employees receiving short term disability benefits or  
employees on leave of absence from a work group that  
has offered the enhanced pension will be eligible for  
the benefit if they otherwise meet the eligibility  
requirements.  
Employees temporarily promoted out of the work group or  
transferred out as of the ERB designated election  
period will not be covered by the pension enhancement.  
If an employee who has accepted an offer of ERI Phase  
II enhanced pension benefits is still an employee after  
the effective date of this Memorandum of Agreement, the  
employee will retire under the provisions of the ERI  
177  
Phase II offer. However, if the ERB pension enhancement  
is offered in such an employee’s work group and the  
thirty-day election period for the work group starts  
before the employee’s retirement date under ERI Phase  
II, the employee will retire on the date established  
under ERI Phase II, but will receive the better of the  
ERI Phase II benefit or the ERB benefit determined as  
of the retirement date. An employee in this  
circumstance will not be subject to a participation  
Limit on eligibility under ERB and will not be counted  
toward the number of employees eligible under any  
participation limit on the employee’s work group.  
9. If an employee retires with a service pension enhanced  
under ERB and at a later time returns to employment  
with the Companies and becomes an active participant in  
the pension plan, the employee’s service and pension  
will be determined in the future without regard to the  
ERB enhancement. On subsequent termination the employee  
will receive the greater of the normal pension benefit :  
without regard to the ERB or the benefit - --  
-—_— ~-— determined tndexr ERB, subject to the offset rules of  
the pension plan for a cashout of a previous pension.  
10. Administration of the Early Retirement Benefit will not  
be subject to arbitration.  
Effective date/language:  
With ratification  
Termination date/langquage:  
In accordance with the Conclusion Article  
### Coverage:  
Pacific Bell Yes  
Nevada Beil Yes  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: August 8, 1995  
178  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
—— — —  
### ELIMINATE FORCE FREEZES, FORCE LIMITATIONS & METERING  
1. Before implementing any force limitation, the Companies will give the affected Union  
Local(s) and District 9 fourteen calendar days advance notice during which time the  
Union Local(s) and the principle managers in the Officer organization planning to  
implement the force limitation will meet to discuss the need for the force limitation.  
In addition, the Officer of the impacted organization will notify the Local(s) and  
District 9 in writing. The notification will contain the following:  
Organization name  
Title(s) affected  
Location(s)  
Start date and end date of the force limitation  
Rationale for the force limitation  
Action plan to resolve the force limitation  
it is understood, however, that this agreement does not prejudice the Companies’ right  
to implement the force limitation at the end of the 14-calendar day period.  
2. Each request for a force fimitation must be accompanied by a pian designed to  
return the affected group to an unrestricted flow of transfers. The Business Unit  
Officer will periodically review the progress being made toward resolution of the  
situation and notify the affected Union Local(s) and District 9 on a quarterly basis.  
Effective Date: With ratification  
Termination Date: With the Conclusion Article of the 2001 Collective Bargaining  
### Agreement  
Applies to: Pacific Bell x SBC Services, Inc. X  
Nevada Bell Xx SBC Telecom, Inc. X  
AS! xX PB Home Entertainment x  
Communications Workers of America  
   
179  
ee  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT = ~~  
### EMPLOYEE CAREER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS  
### TRAINING/RETRAINING  
Employee Coreer Development Programs  
The Companies and the Union agree to continue the Jointly administered  
Training/Retraining Pragrams also known as Horizons. Horizons will continue to be part  
of the Employee Career Development Programs and will continue to be administered  
by the Tralning/Retraining Working Committees pursuant fo Sections 2.62 and 2.03 of  
the current contract. The Companies will make funding of up to sixteen milllon dotlars  
avallable for Horizons over the life of the contract.  
The Training/Retraining Working Committees’ ongoing administrative responsibilities  
Include:  
e determining Horizons practices such os but not limited to, training cost  
prepayment, relmbursement to employess and former employees, approval  
of all courses, approval of all vendors, and payment of the committee  
members from the Horizons funding for time spent administaring the program;  
¢ arfanging for any necessary services to support administration of Horizons.  
Services may be provided by the Companies or outside vendors, but in either  
event the services will be charged to the sixteen millon dollar funding.  
Effective Date: With ratification  
Termination Date: In accordance with the conclusion article of the 1998 contract  
### Coverage: Pacific Bell and Nevada Bell  
Communications Workers of America Bell/Nevadea B  
™~ >  
  
Agreed: Agreed:  
Vira Milirides  
Area Olrector CWA-District 9  
Date: $, f/f G f Agreed:  
| Execytive Director - Labor Relations  
Date: “qi  
181  
   
   
   
182  
— awe  
=  
  
—  
—_ 1 — te  
a oo —  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### FLEXTIME  
The Companies and the Union agree that Local Management and the Local Union may  
establish a Flextime Work Schedule Procedure in accordance with the following:  
o  
The Companies or the Local Union may initiate a discussion regarding a Flexible  
Work Schedule Procedure.  
Where there is mutual agreement the parties will jointly develop the flextime  
procedure.  
Flextime schedules are limited to the same calendar day and to scheduled hours of  
work in that calendar day. For employees on a four-ten schedule flextime schedules  
are limited to the same calendar day and to ten (10) hours of work in that calendar  
. day.  
Flextime is intended to allow for unexpected situations and is not intended to  
circumvent the attendance policy.  
In those locations where em ployees are required to fill out time sheets, all schedule  
variations must be posted on their time sheets.  
Flextime arrangements cannot create a premium/differential pay  
opportunity/obligation.  
An employee’s shift will not change as a result of flextime.  
e Loca! agreements must be in writing.  
« The parties to any Local agreements will include a provision for either party to  
cancel the Loca! agreement with written notice.  
Prior to implementation, the Company and Union Bargainers must approve all Local  
Agreements.  
e Neither the local Flextime Agreement nor any procedure that the parties  
establish regarding Flextime will be subject to the grievance or arbitration  
process.  
183  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### FLEXTIME  
The parties to any local agreements do not have the authority to establish a procedure  
that violates any provision of the collective bargaining agreement. Should it later be  
determined that a locally agreed procedure is, in fact, a violation of the collective  
bargaining agreement, the Companies wiil not incur any liability for that violation.  
This agreement is not subject to the grievance or arbitration process and may be  
_ canceled by either party with thirty (30) days written notice.  
Effective Date: With ratification  
- Termination Date:——With the Conctusion-Article of the 2001 Collective Bargaining rae  
Agreement  
Applies to: Pacific Bell x SBC Services, Inc. x  
Nevada Bell Xx SBC Telecom, Inc. Xx  
ASI Xx PB Home Entertainment | Xx  
The Companies  
   
(Hes  
Date: A yf Date: 4 1 2LO  
_.- - hte Se oy -- ——-. - = a —- nto te - — = ° oo oe —,, . — « . . — _——  
2 Cama Rares ESBeLL.  
Dwacter San Ramor,, SEC  
827 S00 & Taipan Company  
‘sep 1 1 Mee  
Mr. Ken Croswell Mr. Reid 8B. Pearce  
Assistant to the Vice President, Administrative Assistant to  
District 9 the Vice President, District 9  
Communications Workers of America Comuunications Workers of America  
411 Airport Boulevard 6033 West Century Boulevard  
Burlingame, California 94010 Suite 600  
Les Angeles, California 90045  
Gentlemen:  
This. letter supersedes our May 11, 1984 (tab 252) letter regarding  
monitoring. The reference to TSPS is changed to TOPS. The agreement  
will continue to apply to Pacific Bell only. There is no intent to  
change the agreement which reads as follows:  
Our approach to monitoring and productivity measurements will be based  
om a premise that fosters a work environment that builds on mutual  
trust and respect and that enhances job satisfaction.  
We agree that:  
o Remote monitoring for evaluate purposes will be conducted as  
follows:  
- Done only when all employees in the work group have been notified  
by a visual which will be used only when monitoring is  
taking place.  
~ Limited to thirty (30} calls per month for TOPS and fifty (50) for  
Directory Assistance. Monitoring of an employee will take place  
on no more than three days per month and will be limited to one  
monitoring session each day.  
New employees for three (3) months follewing initial training may  
have double that number taken.  
- Coverage of an employee should take place as soon as as possible,  
but must take place within the same day.  
- No make-up observations will be taken.  
185  
-2-  
o Diagnostic monitoring will be done on a parailel basis at the  
employee's position to identify individual training needs and  
provide follow-up to ensure training has been effective.  
o Parallel monitoring for the purpose of verifying the effectiveness  
of new practices and customer response, etc. will be taken with  
operator's who agree.  
o No employee will be dismissed solely as a result of monitoring  
unless secrecy of communications, fraud, loss of revenue or gross  
customer abuse is involved.  
o Service management observations will not be taken.  
Good service to customers and enhanced revenue are of equal importance.  
Productivity measurements will be reviewed with the Union  
to maximize these objectives.  
Monitoring is intended to be used for training and development of  
operators in order to reach their potential and provide. good customer — -  
 gervice.  
### PACIFIC BELL  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA  
Wh (S32 By: Ki beter! Lk  
Assistant to the Vice Executive Director -  
President, District 9 Labor Relations  
Date: ws \\ SOS ( Date: Qe FG  
Agreed: x .  
Assistant  
to the Vice President,  
District 9  
Date: ae A  
186  
RE Exrewecd Camano Ramon,  
Se Ramon Cahn SC  
i ee  
623-5600 & Prete Totewe Company  
gep 41 98  
Mr. Ken Croswell Mr. Reid B. Pearce  
Assistant to the Vice President, Administrative Assistant to  
District 9 the Vice President, District 9  
Communications Workers of America Communications Workers of America  
411 Airport Boulevard 6033 West Century Boulevard  
Burlingame, California 94010 Suite 600  
Log Angeles, California 90045  
Gentlemen:  
This confirms our understanding of A 6 , with respect to  
pay Creatment of certain employees with physical restrictions. This  
Memorandum cancels and supersedes our letter dated March 29, 1977,  
regarding the return to work of certain physically restricted  
employees.  
The pay treatment is as follows:  
If the rate of pay on the new assignment is lower than that of the  
employee's former job, the employee will be red circled at the  
employee's previous rate based on the following tabie:  
Net_ Credited Service Period of Red Circling  
Under 6 months 0  
6 months to 2 years 2 weeks  
2 years to 5 years 4 weeks  
S years to 15 years 13 weeks  
iS years to 20 years 26 weeks  
20 years to 25 years 39 weeks  
25 years and over 52 weeks  
187  
-2  
Employees will continue to receive their progression increases at the  
higher rate during the period of red circling as well as any general  
wage increases and team awards that become effective during this time.  
Where applicable, the team awards will be prorated according to the  
Team Award Plan.  
If at the completion of the period of red circling the physical/medical  
restrictions still exist, the employee's wage rate will be reduced to  
the wage rate of the new assignment.  
This Memorandum of Agreement will only become effective if the  
collective bargaining aqreement between the parties embodied in the  
Memorandum of Agreement dated August 1, 1986 is ratified by the Union  
membership on or before September 12, 1986. If that Memorandum of  
Agreement is so ratified, this Memorandum of Agreement will become  
effective and may be terminated by either party by giving thirty (30)  
days prior written notice to the other party of its intention to  
tarminatea this Memorandum of Agreement.  
### PACIFIC BELL  
         
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA | NEVADA BELL  
Agreed: By:  
Assistant to the Vice  
President, District 9 Labor Relations  
Date: \\ U Date: Fe 56  
Agreed: x x Zz  
dministrativd Assistant  
to the Vice President,  
District 9  
Date: ~ VC  
188  
The Company and the Union agree to the following principles for negotiating individual  
sales incentive programs:  
Sales and incentives for sales shall be a win for all stakeholders:  
* Customer ~ good service and the best possible solution to telecommunications  
needs  
* Emptoyee/Union - positive incentive to sell; increased pay opportunities,  
increased employment security and jobs  
* Company -~ increased revenue leading to growth and higher share owner value  
Communication to employees (management and non-management) on service, sales, and  
sales incentives must be positive and ongoing:  
* Joint union-company communications is best approach  
* All service representatives will be trained on product knowledge and sales  
techniques to enhance their sales capabilities in the performance of their job  
* Communications should emphasize overal! good service as well as sales  
* Communications should focus on both the why and the what of sales incentives  
* Communications process must include periodic follow-up with service  
representatives and a feedback mechanism for issues and timely resolution of  
issues  
Ethical sales practices and strict adherence to company policy and/or negotiated  
will not be compromised:  
* No tolerance for unethical sales, dishonest behavior, or behavior that promotes  
unethical sales or dishonest behavior  
Individual incentives will be over and above base wages.  
* No wages will be at risk  
Sales quotas will not be set for service representatives, however, sales goals may be set  
for service representatives with the following conditions:  
* Individuals will not be disciplined for failure to meet sales goals  
* Company will continue to train all service representatives on product knowledge  
and sales techniques and provide ongoing coaching on the same  
* Sales goals will be based on sales opportunities  
189  
   
* Company and Union will work together to place those who do not desire to  
work in a sales environment  
* Although sales are a part of the service representative performance development  
process (PDP) standards, under no circumstances will sales effectiveness be the  
sole factor used to determine that an employee is not meeting acceptable work  
performance standards  
* Company and Union will work together to find out why people are not able to  
properly use trained sales techniques and figure out how to build employee sales  
capability and/or provide assistance  
Communications Workers of America  
     
~ Area Director  
1/29f G0?  
   
190  
ee  
‘@- "600 Zamng PACIFICE SBELL_  
weiot San Jaron, HSE i  
419 973 S600 A Paerhe Campany  
SEP 1 1 186  
Mr. Ken Crosvwell Mr. Reid B. Pearce  
Assistant to the Vice President, Administrative Assistant to  
District 9 the Vice President, District 9  
Communications Workera of America Communications Workers of America  
411 Airport Boulevard 6033 West Century Boulevard  
Burlingame, California 94010 Suite 600  
Los Angeles, California $0045  
Gentlemen:  
This letter supersedes our prior agreement of August 24, 1983 (old  
tab 258) regarding scheduling of employees for Sunday plus Four to  
reflect the current contractual references. This agreement continues .  
and reads as follows:  
"Employees defined in Appendix A, Section Al.01, A2.01 and Appendix  
B, Section B1.01 subparagraphs A and B may voluntarily waive the  
requirement as stated in Appendix A, Section Ail.0273 and A2.02I and  
Appendix 5B, Section B1l.03I to be scheduled for Sunday plus four  
additional consecutive days.  
An employee will be scheduled according to the Sunday plus four  
additional consecutive days rule wnless the empicyee notifies  
his/her supervisor of his/her waivar one week prior to the posting  
of the schedule."  
    
     
### PACIFIC  
### COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA NEVADA BELL  
Agreed: By: LA  
Assistant to the Vice xecutive Director-  
President, District 9 Labor Relations  
Date: : \\ AS U Date: .- G-/[-€6  
Agreed: a Z .  
dministrative Assistant  
to the Vice President,  
District 9  
Date: ~ FG  
191  
—  
or ea  
  
— ss oor —  
. ew) 4 ee ee ee  
= 4. OF AGREEMENT -- -—-— ---  
### RELOCATION  
This Memorandum of Agreement will confirm our understanding of  
August 6, 1995, with respect to reasonable moving costs as  
provided for in Section 2.08A of the Contract between Pacific  
Bell/Nevada Bell and the Communications Workers of America. This  
memorandum cancels and supercedes our letter on the same subject  
dated June 20, 1990.  
Relocation expense reimbursement will be paid to employees who  
accept a Company-initiated transfer to a non-commutable work  
location. Company-initiated transfers are those transfers and  
reassignments made under the provisions of Section 2.05 or  
Section 2.06 of the Contract. A work location shall be  
considered to be non-commutable as described in Section 2.08E of  
the Contract.  
An employee who accepts a Company-initiated transfer to a non-  
commutable work location will be eligible for moving expense  
reimbursement if the employee has moved his/her residence to a  
commutable location ( as described in Article 2, Section 2.06E of  
the Contract } or if, in the determination of the Companies, the  
employee has moved his/her residence appreciably closer to the  
new work location.  
1. Relocation expense reimbursement will be paid according to  
the attached schedule, up to a maximum of $ 12,000.00. or  
2. A commute allowance of $200 per month will be paid for up to  
three (3) years. Employees who elect the commute allowance  
in lieu of relocation { CILOR }) may, within one (1) year  
from the date of transfer, elect to move their residence.  
In such cases, relocation expenses will be reimbursed in  
accordance with the attached schedule, up to a maximum of  
$§ 9,600. In no event will the combination of commute  
allowance and moving expenses exceed $ 12,000.  
193  
This Memorandum of Agreement will also confirm our understanding  
of November 27, 1598S, regarding the application of relocation  
benefits. This Memorandum of Agreement supersedes our letter  
dated December 18, 1986; however, this Memorandum does not change  
the intent of that letter, which reads as follows:  
“ In the event an employee who is commuting to work, on his/her  
own volition, a distance exceeding that which is normally  
considered commutable and is aubject to a Company-initiated move  
to a location which is also non-commutable but results in a  
commute that is less than the employee’s previous commute, the  
employee will not be entitled to relocation benefits including  
### CILOR. -  
However, if an employee, under similar circumstances, is subject  
to a Company-initiated move which results in. a commute greater  
than that which the employee previously experienced, the employee  
will be entitled to relocation benefits should the employee  
decide to move his/her residence within one year of the effective  
date of the Company-initiated move, or CILOR. “*  
Effective date/language:  
Upon ratification of the Contract.  
Termination date/language:  
In accordance with the conclusion Article of the currently  
effective collective bargaining agreement between Pacific  
Bell /Nevada Bell and the Communications Workers of America.  
Coverage:  
Pacific Bell Yes  
Nevada Bell Yes  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: August 8, 1995  
— 7  
### RELOCATION EXPENSE TREATMENT-CWA  
### EXP OR W  
| Tate  
B. Per Diem ( meal and miscellaneous )..............530/day  
C. Lodging-actual, not to maximum  
D. Exploratory trip, not to 5 days maximum  
E. Immediate family members may go on  
Exploratory Trip. Expense treatment  
as follows:  
- Spouse meals-actual, not to exceed......,.d15/day  
Children under 12 yearsrectual,  
not to exceed... 17. 50/day  
> Children over 12 yeass-actual,  
NOt 10 see $15/day  
- Lodging/spouse-actual, additional  
not to exceed... excess ...-5 10/day max.  
- Lodging/children-actual, additional —  
not to exceed... /GAY MAX.  
- Babysitter for children- actual  
documented costs, not to exceed...............$25/day  
### TEMPORARY LIVING  
Lump sum amount of $ 4,750 in lieu of receipted expenses.  
### MOVING OF HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS  
Arrangéments made through Relocation office. Actual expenses reimbursed  
### EN ROUTE EXPENSES  
Expense treatment same as during  
Exploratory Trip. Mileage at Standard  
Company Rate for a maximum of 2 cars.  
En route expense normally reimbursed  
for a maximum of | night’s lodging and  
2 days’ meals.  
195  
<= . .. ATTACHMENT... -_  
### RELOCATION EXPENSE TREATMENT-CWA ( Continued )  
5.  
### MOBILE HOMES  
Cash allowance for moving mobile home in lieu of reimbursement for moving  
household. Cash allowance determined by Relocation Coordinator. Allowance  
will not exceed estimated cost of moving employee’s personal household  
furnishings that are in the mobile home.  
### MISCELLANEOUS  
Documented loss of rent, including Up to $500  
penalties associated with leases,  
with business transfer termination  
privileges.  
Home/Apartment Finding Service Fee Up to $200  
{ ¢.g., Relocation Consultants )  
### DISCOUNTED MORTGAGE RATE.  
Provide the name of a national lender  
whe will offer discounted mortgage rates  
to qualified employees.  
### PURCHASE/RENT AL ALLOWANCE  
Allowance to those who relocate and $ 1,000  
purchase a residence or who rent their  
primary residence.  
### MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT RATE  
Per Article 5, Section 5.05C4c of the 1995 Agreement, employees shall be reimbursed at  
the rate of thirty cents ( $ .30 ) per mile for mileage incurred on or after March 1, 1995.  
In the event the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) changes the reimbursement rate for  
mileage, the Companies will adjust the mileage reimbursement rate to the maximum  
allowable rate. The Companies will determine and inform the Union of the date on which  
employees will begin receiving any new mileage reimbursement rate.  
196  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
The Companies prefer to have empioyees in the bargaining unit perform traditional  
telephone work. However, when the Companies determine that it is necessary to  
subcontract that type of work, the Companies agree to the following:  
1.  
The Companies will provide notice to the appropriate Union Local before contracting  
out work when the contracting project is anticipated to last more than ninety (90)  
days and to discuss the reasons for the contracting.  
. 10 carefully consider the use of union-represented contractors to perform traditional  
telephone work with the understanding that the selection of any contractor is  
determined solely by the Companies.  
. From time to time, but no less frequently than every six (6) months, the Vice  
President-Labor Relations, the Business Unit Presidents, or next level of  
management below if the Presidential levef does not exist for that organization, and  
the Vice President-District 9, or their designated representatives, will meet to  
discuss the issue of subcontracting and its impact on employees. |n addition, this  
committee may review situations where contractors are performing traditional  
telephone work and the work is expected to continue fong-term and discuss  
appropriate solutions.  
. The Vice President-Labor Relations and the Vice President-District 9 will also  
establish a joint committee to examine work previously performed by bargaining unit  
employees to determine if it would serve the interests of both parties to have the  
work brought back into the Companies. The joint committee should be formed within  
60 days following ratification and have their first meeting within 90 days following  
ratification. The joint committee shall make recommendations to the Vice President-  
Labor Relations and the Vice President-District 9 within 90 days of holding such  
meeting. The Union members of the joint committee will be paid in accordance with  
Section 3.02B of the current collective bargaining agreement.  
. The Companies will provide the Union a monthly report regarding the contracting of  
bargaining unit jobs. The report will include:  
The name of the contractor.  
The type of jobs being contracted.  
The estimated number of jobs being contracted.  
The location of the contracted work.  
The length of the contract and duration of the work at each location.  
o 8® § ®  
197  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
### SUBCONTRACTING  
Any claims of non-compliance with the terms of this Agreement may be immediately  
escalated, in writing, to the National Union’s Area Director and Labor Relations  
Executive Director. If they are unable to resolve the issue, the Union may, within thirty  
(30) calendar days of the escalation, notify. the Company of their intent to arbitrate  
issues of non-compliance with this Agreement.  
     
Effective Date: With ratification  
Termination Date: With the Conclusion Article of the 2001 Collective Bargaining  
### Agreement  
Applies to: Pacific Bell Xx SBC Services, Inc. x  
Nevada Bell x SBC Telecom, Inc. x  
ASI x PB Home Entertainment Xx  
Communications Workers of America The Companies  
Agreed: Lf Ke Agreed:  
James 8. Gordon  
Srea Director CWA~ District’ sident - Labor Relations  
198  
The Pacific Telephone ond Telegraph Company (Company) ‘has-the —: -  
responsibility for providing high-quality telephone service to the public.  
This Includes not only the proper functioning of equipment but such  
things os accuracy, completeness, promptness, courtesy end helpfulness  
f employees in business transactions with customers. (¢t Is agreed by  
the Compeny and the Communications Workers of America (Union) that  
appropriate procedures will be used to mect this obligation.  
in addition, the Company end the Union agree thet the laws  
with respect to secrecy of comnunicstions must be follaved, and that  
both have an obligation to prevent eny scts by employees which tend  
RO perpetrate fraud, violate secrecy or cause loss of revenue.  
it {3 agreed thot supervisory monitoring as defined end  
referred to in CPUC Decision No. 7346 may be used to achieve the  
above objectives.  
As defined, “Supervisory monitoring" Is used by telephone  
companies to train and supervise individual employees In their  
performance of tclephone service assignments.  
Under CPUC Decision No. 73146, supervisory monitoring is  
permitted without notice (i,.e., without a beep tone'’) when performed  
without the making of ony written notation or any record of the  
contents, substencs, purpose, efferet, or meaning of any conversation  
(which tnctudes the employee's conversation) which may have been heard  
during seid supervisory monitoring.  
A person performing supervisory monitoring may not disclose  
to anyone (including supervisory personnel ond the observed employee)  
any pert of any conversation overheard while performing such supervisory  
monitoring.  
The Company ts obligated to insure, by proper training end  
direction of its supervisory thet supervisory monitoring is  
properly used, To insure thet this Is done the Company egrees to  
train Its supervisory people in the implementation of this Agreement  
covering the use of supervisory monitoring as fol lows:  
a. fecord of supervisory monitoring will be made on check-  
off type shests recording only technical detalls end manner of  
job performance. No written notations of @ conversation will be mede  
axcept es absolutely necessary to protect secrecy of comaunicatiors or  
to prevent fraud or loss of revenue.  
b. When record of Job discussion between a Traffic or  
Central Office Monaner, or other supervisor end the observed employee  
fe mode, it will not include the contents, substance, purpose, effect,  
or meaning of any observed conversation, unless secrecy of comnunications,  
froud, or loss af revenue Is tnvolved. An employee shell be permitted  
fo review his/her personne} record upon his/her request.  
199  
Le  
go (Fo oR A leet, The Pacific Telephone and  
  
c. Supervisory monitoring mey be used to determine training  
needs and to evoluete the grade of service of individual employees.  
Other supervisory steps, such es training sessions, visusl observation,  
indlvidual and shalt be used In addition to  
supervisory monitoring to evaluate and improve an employee's performance.  
@. Employees subject to supervisory monitoring will be so  
advised.  
e. Supervisory monitoring wll! be done only In the quarters  
where the employee Is working.  
This Agreement does not preclude the Union's right of  
grievance procedure and/or arbitration as set forth tn the Agreement  
between the parties.  
This Agreement- may: be-terminated by elther party In  
accordance with the eppropriete Collective Bargaining Agreement  
covering Wages, Hours. and Working Conditions for bargaining unit  
employees represented by the Union.  
f > eth fh. a  
     
Communicetions Workers Telegraph Company  
of America, AFL-CIO Beli Telephone Company of Nevada  
Ct 12, 1T7/  
200  
### MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
-_ . wma ek  
### SUPERVISORY MONITORING - SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES  
This Memorandum of Agreement confirms the understanding between  
the Company and the Union regarding Supervisory Monitoring for  
Service Representatives in Pacific Bell.  
Supervisory monitoring will be conducted as follows:  
Done only when all employees in the work group have been  
notified by a visual indicator which will be used only  
when monitoring is taking place.  
* Monitoring used for evaluative or disciplinary purposes  
shall be limited to no more than 10 calls per month.  
Such monitoring of an employee will take place no more  
than two days per month and will be limited to one  
monitoring session each day.  
e New employees for six (6) months following initial  
training will have no limit to the number of calls  
monitored.  
* Coverage of an employee should take place as soon as.  
possible, but must take place within 24 hours of the call  
being monitored.  
e No employee will be dismissed solely as a result of  
monitoring unless secrecy of communications, fraud or  
gross customer abuse is involved.  
e Simultaneous monitoring will be used solely for coaching  
and development of management personnel and will be done  
only with the concurrence of the monitored employee.  
* Monitoring that is performed by anyone other than  
Management shall be used for coaching and development and  
may not be used for evaluative or disciplinary purposes.  
Employees receiving Relief Differential are not  
management.  
201  
To facilitate implementation and understanding, the Union and the  
Company recognize the importance of developing a best practices  
package for supervisory monitoring. To assure this, we agree to  
reconvene the Supervisory Monitoring Joint Committee to develop a  
best practices for supervisory monitoring package. The  
Supervisory Monitoring Joint Committee will have the best  
practices package developed by December 31, 1995. The Union and  
the Company also agree that common definitions are important and  
further agree that the terms listed in the attached Glossary of  
Terms will have the meanings stated there.  
Effective date/language:  
Upon the ratification of the Contract.  
_— a= 3a  
— -  
‘Termination date/language:  
This Memorandum of Agreement will be subject to termination  
in accordance with the Conclusion Article of the currently  
effective collective bargaining agreement between Pacific  
Bell/Nevada Bell.  
Coverage:  
Pacific Bell Yes  
Nevada Bell No  
ORIGINAL SIGNED: August 8, 1995  
202  
2001 INDEX  
### mn = SECTION ~ PAGE  
Christmas and New Year's Eve Special Payments.............. 6.03C 65  
During Scheduled Vacation tone = 6, 03B 65  
OM 6.03A 45  
LIST Of SIGHT 5.0, 5, crane 6.03A 65  
Pay Treatment  
Not Paid for, EXCEPTIONS 5409 pee we 6.03E2&4 56  
### NOt WOTkGd cha MORN ONES ALONE 6.03E 66  
WOIKGG 6.03F 66  
HOME 0 82.09 723  
Hourly Pay Treatment  
HOULS OF WOTK . Al.02 96  
A2.02 103  
A3.02 107  
A4.02 134  
82.08 I27  
Immediate Family, DEFINITION G6,05A3 68  
### IMMEDIATE SEIVICES §.04G-J 57  
109  
«icine none oem . 7.06 77  
I GUN sac nas coe sia oe 4.01 43  
NosifiCation fO »s 401A&B 43  
Change Due to New Technology or Functionalization ...... 4.01B 43  
RIQNTS cose 4010 44  
THIF 4.01F&G 44  
Wage Administration for Job 4,.01B2 44  
Job Evaluation Transition Pay Plan (JETPP) 4.01B2 44  
Joint AUTS Review Commiitee Ae 2.04D 8  
DULY 6.04D 7  
6.05A 1 68  
LOWS, Federal OF Wal bork 3.70 4]  
Layoffs  
AMO WONCE 11 FA Nae RoE §.01C 85  
82.01 D 120  
Allowance - Repayment After 8.01D 84  
» 801C)] 86  
Recall RIQNHS cee cai 8.01F 86  
Treatment for Recalled Employees  
Subsequently Laid Off........ 8.01E 86  
» 801A 85  
82.07 A 120  
### VACATION 8.01C2 Bd  
Leave of Absence  
PEPIN eta ts a Seine Hs nde wdc eS a wes stare ere 6,058 68  
### UMON ACTIVINOS SH 31  
Liaison Committees, Force MOVEMOeNS 2.06B2 13  
Limits on Employees Paid Attending 3,0284 30  
Lodging, Temporary Non-Commutable Work Location  
COMPANY §.05A1 58  
EMBIOVOS ae rene 5.05A2&3 58  
Lost Workday ena SOS 53  
208  
—  
2001 INDEX  
207  
### SECTION PAGE  
Employee Discipline, Unlon Representation 7.02A 73  
Employee Presentation, Problem RESOIUFION 7.09 78  
Employment Security COMMITMENE 2.01 3  
Excused Absences for UNION ACTIVITIOS 3.03A&B 3]  
EXPECIted 7.15 81  
Expense Treatment  
Allowance In Lieu Of P@r §.05A2&3 58  
AUTOMODI!e, Use Of §.05C4 60  
Commutable Temporary Work LOCATON 60  
### LOCGING, COMPANY 5.05A1 58  
### LOGGING, EMPOVES 58  
Meal 5.05B 59  
MOVING os 24  
Non-Commutable Temporary Work 5.05A1 58  
PO Ole reas 58.  
ROM a oo res sv Eo Ged AERA T ED 2.08 24  
5.05C 40  
Union Reimbursement for Attending Joint Meetings.......... 3.02D-F 30  
WeekKeNd ANd HOllAAY occ 5.05A4 59  
Explratlon Date, COMPACT 10.01 GT  
### EXT TIMES DISTHDOUTNOM .OSE—-—— 400-——- —  
A2.03G 106  
A4,038 116  
82.058 122  
POTGUG statin saa dent da tad 5.04H 57  
GS ce 3.70 4]  
### FING! DEPAMMENTAl POSITION eT 7.07 78  
### FIOXIDIS STATING §.01D 52  
wie 2,08 10  
### FOITE MOVOEMBEMN 2.06 13  
### FOICE REAIIONGEMBENES. . 2,05B 11  
FRC FOGG ce we oes earns ean eens §.04L 58  
cess es caw C1.01-04 126  
Grandfathered, Part TWNG somes 46  
### GHEVAINCES 7.05 74  
Discussions WIth 77  
EMployes sense 7.09 78  
### FING COMPANY POSITION vic SHERRIE 7,07 78  
i es 7,06 77  
TIMES OF... 7.47 82  
Time Limlts, Presentation Of 7.04 74  
Unresolved Union Presented 7.08 78  
GNd LIMITS... A1,04 98  
A2,02K 105  
A2,04 106  
A4,04 117  
Headquarters, Defined, FOICE 2.09 25  
82.08 423  
Health mess wm Km kee eho Bis EA 9.01 89  
Holidays  
### ASSIQNMEONE OF WOTK 8,090 65  
——as  
2001 INDEX  
re em ee ne ee ame SECTION  
Call-Outs  
Immedlate Services (Non-Scheduled 5.04J  
A3.03C  
lmmedlate Services (Scheduled Work Day) 5.04|  
A3.03B  
Less than 3 Hours Before SHIff ccc sa OREN OES ewe 5.04G  
More than 3 Hours Before 5.04H  
Standby GP DEINE ane ny 5.06  
### DOVElOPMENT 2.02  
Carfare ....... cS nase ROW PEAT a Sy MAG wana sg PEEVES . §.05C  
Change of Assignment and Wage Administration om C8  
Change of Shift 2.04E}  
Change of Work LOCAaTION REQUESTS 2.04E2  
Chilstmas & New Year’s Eve Special Payments .......... 6.03C  
ANd ProbleM SOlVING 7.03  
Commutable Temporary Work Location PTE Tere 5.0502  
Company Premises, Access Dy UNION 3.08  
Company’s Grievance Decision to Union Time Requirements... 7.07  
Condition of Employment, Dues Requirement 3.08A-C  
Consolidation 2.098  
### CONTACT, OF 1/05  
Contract Employees, REPIOCEMENT OF 2,06C  
### DOOth THE FOTULY 6.05A3  
Differentials  
OPesra4#lor - A3.05  
C7  
PACHC BEH Home ENterlainMe A, 82.07  
RENEE - 802A  
A HAA A Han nome 5,03  
Disabillfy ANG C3.01A2  
### DESCHIMIMATION «=P  
Discussing Problem Resolution with Employee  
### After REFERS TO UNION = 7 O5F  
Dismissals  
Back Pay - ReEINSTATEMENDE eee 7.14  
### Employee RIGNTS - INVESTIGATION 7.19A  
GH@VANCE wa #00  
Payment At TiMe@ Of... ee RE 7.19B  
### OF EXT THING A1.05E  
A2.03G  
A4.03B  
82.058  
Dues, Union  
PAyIOll 3.08A  
Canceling Payroll DEGUCTION 3.08A, E, F  
CRONMGES IN uy seta sn von  
### COMPANY 3,.08A &H  
### CONAIFION Of 3.07A  
Employee DEVEIOPMENT 2.02  
206  
### PAGE  
W1  
1&9  
123  
54  
130  
4]  
77  
2001 INDEX  
205  
### SECTION PAGE  
Absence  
SF ism: OAS 68  
### EFFECT ON WAGE 5.01B7 51  
SY GY cass 20 eave senses can 6.05A1 68  
GL, bi cc denna ce 6.05B 68  
Leave of. Union Activitles............. 3.03A&k&C 31  
Personal Days Off 6.04 67  
SG ec une 2x 5.01F-H 33  
starts ears sok belles Ae acs Bale 6.05A2 68  
Access to COMpaNy PIEMlSes, UNION 3.05 36  
Americans With Disabllities Act (ADA) 3.096 4}  
Approved Union Activitles on COMpany PIemls@S 36  
Arbitration  
DECISION 7.13 81  
AIDITHATOL, OF Ty «a 2,12 60  
AIbItrator, SAISCTION OF 7.11 80  
Back pay, Reinstatement After AIDITOtlOn resrace Fa A By  
EFFE CH Of 7.14 81  
Ea ai i ya 4a eras wrest ah tee 7.11D 80  
+ FS 81  
- a OS ata” FG _ 82 eee  
7.18 82  
### Notlce to COMPANY, REQUIFEMENTS 7.10C 79  
7.10 78  
### TIME LIMITS, COMPUTATION 7.17 82  
Assigned Employees, Force 2.05B4a WW  
### ASSIQNET SULPIUS 2.06B7 16  
ASSIQNING ANG WORK sey ena 4,02 45  
Assigning of Scheduled Weekend and Holiday A4.02J 136  
Attendance at Meetings, UNION HiME 36  
### AUTNOMZOG 6.03A 65  
Authorized Representatives, 2?  
Authorized Representatives, Problem Resolutlon ...... 3.02A 29  
Automated Upgrade & Transfer System (AUTS)....... 5  
AUTOMODHIIS, Use Of 5,05C4 60  
Average Workweek......... eens be TAA SONY HER CHEE ORR 4.03A 46  
BOC 5,011 53  
Benefit oe 4.03€ 50  
Benefit Plan  
IM 5,07A 62  
GHEVANCES AN oo. 5.07B 62  
Bulletin Boards  
PAT oso nn a dai re remakes lee 3.068 37  
Posted Materials - 3.06C 37  
SHSCIHCANONS: 9009 3.064 37  
### TEMMINATION Of PHVHEQE!S 3.06D 37  
2001 INDEX  
### ~~ SECTION  
### MONGGEMENE 2.06F  
### Meal AIOWONCE Gos UREA NAHE §.058  
Al.O2H&E  
A2.02H&J  
A4,02CG&H  
82.041  
Meal 5.04N  
ss commen 7.18  
Meetings Between Union and Management  
Representatives ...... Rit WK AGT Nese Rt ld 8 9a am mum 3,02  
### AUTNOTIZEM REPIESONTOTIVES 3.02A  
### Expense REIMDUISOMENT 3.02D-F  
POY 3.028  
Returning to Work - End of Me6ting .... 3.02C  
### MHCAGES AIOWONCE §.05Cdce  
Minimum Payment, Immediate §,04J &K  
2.04E  
New Job Titles and Classifications  
Advanced Notification tO UNION 4,01A&B  
Change Due to New Technofogy or Functionalization ...... 4.018  
4.01D  
TRI PoOrty 4.01F&G  
New Years’ and Chiistmas Special Payments 6,03C  
Non-Commutfable Assignment, . 2,08E  
Non-Commutable Temporary Work 5.054  
wee 30?  
acs 2s tics 4,03D  
### OCCASION! §.05B8  
Occupational Job Evaluation aad IS 4,0]  
Occupational Safety ANd HEIN eee ?.01  
Overtime Definitlon..... #02 OA AK GAOT A A RAE RR sad sek . 5.046  
Overtime and Premium Pay  
ern’  
A3.03B8  
A3.03C  
82.05D  
DistriDUtlON Of A1.05E  
A2.03G  
A4.03B  
82.058  
Farty-Eight Hours’ A1.03D  
A2.Q3E  
A4.03C  
pees §.04L  
Holidays = Pay Treatment rad ta &.O3E&F  
MOOI wae S.04N  
209  
### PAGE  
19  
5?  
97  
104  
116  
72?  
58  
82  
  
58  
56  
$8  
2001 INDEX  
### SECTION PAGE  
Overtime and Premium Pay (Continued)  
SHH CRONQG . Al.05D 100  
A2.03F 106  
A4,02B4 115  
### STANADY POY 5.06 6]  
SUNGOY err rere ree , §.04F 56  
A3.03A 109  
Time Pald For But Not Worked (A: mala 56  
A3.03A1 109  
Part-time, Term, Temporary and Occasional  
is vi » 4,03 46  
Part-time Employees (Until January 1, 1993)  
HOWAGY rarer O6.03E1b 66  
Vacatlon Pay......... (a ONO Wk HW ath NG 6.02D&E 64  
Part-Time Employees: As of January 1, 1993  
4.03A26&3 46  
as ame aa a bi rare 4.03AT 46  
—-—. -- All-Other &03A2&3°  
HOVGOY coon 66  
### VACAHON DY 6.02F 64  
Paychecks, §.01K 53  
POY fOr NOt oo... 6.03E 56  
Pay for Holldays 6.03F 6&  
### POY FOF VACATION 6,02B-E 64  
Pay Treatment for Union 3.028 29  
3.08 39  
### POMSION C2 128  
### REVISION Cé 158  
Per Di@im 58  
Personal Days Off  
6.04A 67  
### EMPIOVYES OPTIONS O.04C &7  
(SHIT CHANGS) oo... 6,04D 57  
Schedullng .... 6.06A-E 68  
TWO (2) 6.04B 67  
While at Non-Commutable Temporary Work Location....... 6.06L 70  
Photocoples, FOL. renee gi ou 7.06C 78  
Placement 2.06Bé6e 15  
Plan for Emptoyees’ Pension, Disabllity and Death Benefits ....... 5.07 62  
Premium Payments, Definition §,04C 56  
Priosity Placement Consideration for Surplus Employees. 2.0686 14  
Problern Resolution, Presentation Steps  
Discipline Other Than Olsmissals...... voar O5A 74  
SEB nas sa einem naan donna ees nen Bea ER 7.05A 74  
### ONS PIODIOMS 7.05B 75  
Aes, 2.06B6f 15  
Reassignment Pay Protection PIAN 20688 1?  
RRC sees ae sees oe ees esc ess eee ewes es eee 8.01F 86  
Recalled ja pei ws jsp naw SEAR BARS 8.01D 8S  
210  
2001 INDEX  
Reclassify Existing (OS ions eens eee ew orm OO KOOL ORs  
pieces  
Reinstatement of Employee on Return from Absence  
  
### REIOCATION  
OE Ve RO ROR sues  
### RElOCATION Of EXIStING  
Replacement Of CONTACT  
Rescheduling Personal Days Off cc  
### Responsible UnNION-COMpadny REIGTONSHIP  
### REtrSats, REQUICE TICMSICTS  
### RSETFEQTS, WAGE ACIMIMISHATION enn  
RetuINing TO Work AfTEl  
Review Committee, JOINT AUTS  
Rules Overtime  
FA vicina se a Kes eR IE  
Fe prone coset Koni Wi DAR TORS ET OK  
  
5-Hour,,  
OC eh Pee  
8-Hour (AIlSO S@E@  
40-Hour (Also see 8-HOUS  
### COICUIATION  
UOT sai noe cymes sn oon sss oem  
### 49-Hour COPE RR PATA DEO MEAP PE  
ations  
### SICKNESS/BENEHA ADSENCE  
21%  
### ~ SECTION |  
4,01B  
1,01  
3.03D  
5.02  
A3,.05B-E  
2.08  
2.08A1  
2.05A  
2,06C  
6.06E  
3.01  
2.04C  
C8,.06  
3.02C  
2,04D  
5.041-K  
A2.03A  
A3.03B2  
A3.03C  
82.05D  
5.04G &H  
A1.05B  
A2.03A&8B8  
°,.04K  
A1.05A  
A2.03C  
A2. 02A2&3  
A4.02B  
82.04C  
5.01F  
### ~ PAGE  
43  
|  
35  
54  
112  
109  
110  
123  
of  
105  
27  
——  
2001 INDEX  
Safety....... rere J cba p yews meres  
### 15-MONIN  
Scheduling Planned Time $a devon Been >  
### Selection, SEQUENCE FOr VACONCIAS  
Senlority  
### ASSIGNMENT Of HOUTS  
Defined Rae thee HAE  
  
SCG oi tance ij  
SHIT oe ses coe cass sen sens  
pisses  
T@MPOlaly  
Vacation and PBO  
Shift or Tous  
### DEFINE  
‘  
eireie  
Short Term Incentive Plan - STIP (See Team Performance  
AMO + TPA) cores cms  
sickness Absence Payments  
NC OY nei es sxe ese uses  
Solicitation of Members on COMPANY PFEMISES  
SPECI] nes  
Standby Pay  
Defined  
Assign ment/Empioyee  
COMPENSATION swage soci Recs 07h SAF  
212  
### SECTION  
9.01  
6.06D  
6.06  
2.048  
Al.06D  
A2.054  
A3.048  
A4,.05C  
82.068  
Al.06A  
A2.05  
AZ.04A  
A4.05  
82.054  
2.07  
F060  
  
A1.05D  
A2,02A1  
A4.02B4  
6,04D  
A} .O2A-E  
A2.02A-F  
A3.02A  
A4,02A-F  
82.04A-G  
5.03  
A3.05  
82.07  
C7  
C5  
5.01F-H  
§.01J  
3,.G5C  
A1.02F  
A1.04B  
A2.02K  
5.06A  
82.05C  
5.068  
82.050  
5.06C  
82.05C  
10]  
106  
110  
118  
123  
10)  
106  
1190  
118 |  
T2d  
20  
77°  
54  
100  
103  
115  
67  
2001 INDEX  
-_ — ees ———— ss rs - . . lt « ee Seo  
### STATS) LOWS . 370  
steward List........ ORE . §,02A  
### SUNGAYS, PrEMIUM PAYMENT . §,O4F  
Surpius, Idenilfication and Resolution............ cant » 2.06B-E  
Surplus, Steps fo . 2.06A  
Surplus, Work Group, Defined OORT  
Team Performance Award (TPA) (formerly OF  
COMPUTATIONS 14 AR NATE LA ha dd Be x cmp 5,02  
### D@SCHPTION ane Seal  
### EMPIOVESES 4,03C  
Reclassifled to Ferm ec we «6.  
WOrk LOCATIONS co... 5.05A  
TEIN 806i x mre Ee 4.03B  
a Soe  
Time Limits, Problem Resolution  
»  #,)00  
7.18J  
Extensions, Computation arene Pen beam 7.17  
### Final DEPAItMeNnt POSITION 7.07  
Grievance Presentation, Initial...... PT rrr 7. O4A&B  
### GHEVONGCE 7.Q5C-E  
7.18B  
Time Off for UNION ACTIVITIES 3.03  
WIGS bens Rapes BNE Peake eden ene C2  
TifleS GANG At.01  
A2.03  
A3.01  
  
8]  
Tour Differantials SErviCSs) ccc . C7  
Training/Retfraining Working COMMIUtOS’S » 2.03  
### TPANSFOL, AUTOMATE” SYSTEM 2.04  
### ACTIVITY REDOTTS esse 2.04A3  
2.0464  
ListING Of JOD 2.04A4  
### PETE QUISITSS 2.0446  
### SEISCTON 2,048  
C2  
TEMG UE es cients ee tm wins es nk A . §,05C  
Travel Expense  
Home Board and Lodging 5.05A2  
### AILOWONCE §,05C4c  
. §,0568  
### Per DIAM ANOWONCE §,05A  
pene 9,05C  
Weekend and Holiday Travel §.05A44  
Travel Time, for Meetings with MANAGEMENT 3,0282  
Collective Bargaining M@etingsS 3.04  
Union Activitias ON COMPANY 3.05  
### UNION-COMPANy 3.02  
Union-Company Relationship ......... 3.01  
213  
### SECTION PAGE —  
4}  
29  
56  
13  
13  
13  
152  
136  
152  
48  
46  
58  
60  
58  
60  
59  
58  
50  
59  
29  
36  
36  
29  
29  
———m =  
2001 INDEX  
### SECTION  
Union Dues  
Arranging Payroll Deduction......... (A451 ASTER 3.08A  
Canceling Payroll DEGUCTION ...... ccc 3.08A.E.F  
### CHANGES IN AMOUNT BOBS  
### COMPANY RESPONSIDIUTY 3.08A&H  
Condition of i sree  
UNION Matearlal, DIStriOUtlOM OF 3.068  
Union Notification, Changing Working 703A  
Union Presentation, Employees 7.04  
Unlon Representation, EMployee REQUEST 7.Q2A  
Union Representatives, NUMbe|r 2.0.0... 7.O5A-8  
Union Securlty, DUES REQUHOMEOMNT 3.07A-C  
Unresolved UNION Presented 7.08  
### (AISO SEES TIAMSISTS) 2.04  
FS sic se nies seu exes ene conn 6,02  
After Returning from Accident and Disabllity Absences.. 6.06M  
After From: Feces a ADSENCE 6,026  
nn te —_—— mame ee OEN AT  
RY aie sen sents ox casts ce none sna 6.06K  
Day-At-A-TIMG 1 Monee Oval  
Day 2.00... 6.040  
Fens HEN EEG Ares §,03  
Eligibility After Leave of Absence tt ee re 6.06N  
Eligibility, Full and EMPIOVYEeS 602  
erat co cers srs eee new a aos ses 6.038  
### PArt-TIME EMPIOVESS  OOZD&E  
Pay, Determinotlon of  
Pay, Full TIME EMPIOYOES 6.020  
Pay, EMPlOVSSS 6.02D0&E  
POY 6.04D  
### POY IM LIQU 6.02H  
Pay in Lieu, Leave of Absence........ Aue ROR RRR SOTA EE §,.06N  
### Pay In LICL, LEAVING SEPVICE ... 6.060  
ASSIQMIMGINS ac reser 6,06C  
SE CII sary 2m wad HS NN EH RR RT BORER RM 6.06A&C  
Week, Defined  
While at Non-Commutable Temporary Work Location....... 6.06L  
Work MAM «8 OOH  
Voluntary Surplus Reduction Option (VSRO) 2.07K  
VOting AG AAA RNAS A Ra 6,05A2  
Wage PractCe GB  
Wage Areas  
### DOME OO EA C4.01  
LOFIG wes C402  
Zone G....... pens OG ESE C4.03  
NGVOdG ©4,04  
### WAGE COA! 5.01E  
Wage Credit, Absence Exceeds 30 DOYS wns pas §,01C  
WOGE™ 5.01B  
### WAGE INCTEASES, GEMCIAL Cl  
214  
### PAGE  
39  
39  
39  
39  
38  
148  
148  
149  
15}  
$2  
52  
126  
ee ae —  
2001 INDEX  
### $ECTION” PAGE =~  
WOE £5454 C2 128  
C3 130  
Wage Schedules ANd POYMeENts aa §.01 51  
Weather, Bad che VUNG EA bows onsen 5.01 53  
Weekend Travel Expense 5.05A4 59  
Work Schedules  
PL ROB RG SO WW hema ag 98  
A2.02A2&3 103  
A4.02B 115  
82.04C i27  
Work Week  
Defined bins + RENE Heed aE Ve EERE STOMA HOSS Al1.02J 97  
104  
A3.02B 108  
A4,02| 116  
82.04H #27  
Working Conditions Changes, Union Notiflcation 7.O3A 73  
Working On A Scheduled Personal Day Off 6.04C 67  
215  
   
### NOTES  
   
   
   
——  
|  
—_—  
|  
|  
|  
!  
|  
|  
|  
|  
216  
### _BOPERVISORY MONITORING JOINT _COMMITTER  
~ —_  
### GLOSSARY OF TERMS  
Monitoring - A third party listening to both sides of the  
telephone conversation between two other parties.  
Administrative Monitoring - A random sampling that provides  
the utility with an overall evaluation or index of the quality  
of service provided by an office or work group without  
reference to or identification of an individual employee.  
Supervisory Monitoring - Monitoring to train and supervise  
individual employees in their performance of telephone service  
assignments.  
Similtaneous Monitoring - Two or more managers monitoring the  
same call. This activity is used solely for coaching and  
development of management personnel and is done only with the  
concurrence of the monitored employee.  
Deskside - Monitoring that is done at the desk of the employee  
being monitored.  
Remote - Monitoring that is done away from the desk of the  
employee being monitored, but within the same general work  
area.  
Development - Any activity focused on improving or enhancing  
an employee’s performance or behavior.  
Coach - One who guides and directs performance growth and  
development.  
Discipline - Any action taken by the coach which carries  
negative consequences for non-performance.  
Gross Customer Abuse ~ Use of profanity and ethnic or sexual  
slurs that obviously causes the customer distress.  
203  
*  
### NOTES  
al  
oe  
—_—- —_—  
{  
— ._—_—  
———-  
—  
ee ee  
———  
——  
204